The applicability of each quantitative and qualitative factor provided in paragraphs (j)(1)(ii) and (j)(1)(iii) of this section to a particular unit of property depends on the nature of the unit of property. For example, if an addition or an increase in a particular factor cannot be measured in the context of a specific type of property, this factor is not relevant in the determination of whether an amount has been paid for a betterment to the unit of property.
(ii)
Application of betterment rules to buildings.
An amount is paid to improve a building if it is paid for a betterment, as defined under paragraph (j)(1) of this section, to a property specified under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) (building), paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) (condominium), paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(B) (cooperative), or paragraph (e)(2)(v)(B) (leased building or leased portion of building) of this section. For example, an amount is paid to improve a building if it is paid for an increase in the efficiency of the building structure or any one of its building systems (for example, the HVAC system).
(iii)
Unavailability of replacement parts.
If a taxpayer replaces a part of a unit of property that cannot reasonably be replaced with the same type of
part (for example, because of technological advancements or product enhancements), the replacement of the part with an improved, but comparable, part does not, by itself, result in a betterment to the unit of property.
(iv)
Appropriate comparison
—(A)
In general.
In cases in which an expenditure is necessitated by normal wear and tear or damage to the unit of property that occurred during the taxpayer's use of the unit of property, the determination of whether an expenditure is for the betterment of the unit of property is made by comparing the condition of the property immediately after the expenditure with the condition of the property immediately prior to the circumstances necessitating the expenditure.
(B)
Normal wear and tear.
If the expenditure is made to correct the effects of normal wear and tear to the unit of property that occurred during the taxpayer's use of the unit of property, the condition of the property immediately prior to the circumstances necessitating the expenditure is the condition of the property after the last time the taxpayer corrected the effects of normal wear and tear (whether the amounts paid were for maintenance or improvements) or, if the taxpayer has not previously corrected the effects of normal wear and tear, the condition of the property when placed in service by the taxpayer.
(C)
Damage to property.
If the expenditure is made to correct damage to a unit of property that occurred during the taxpayer's use of the unit of property, the condition of the property immediately prior to the circumstances necessitating the expenditure is the condition of the property immediately prior to damage.
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (j) only and do not address whether capitalization is required under another provision of this section or another provision of the Internal Revenue Code (for example, section 263A). Unless otherwise provided, assume that the appropriate comparison in paragraph (j)(2)(iv) of this section is not applicable under the facts.

# Example 1. Amelioration of pre-existing material condition or defect
In Year 1, A purchases a store located on a parcel of land that contains underground gasoline storage tanks left by prior occupants. Assume that the parcel of land is the unit of property. The tanks had leaked prior to A's purchase, causing soil contamination. A is not aware of the contamination at the time of purchase. In Year 2, A discovers the contamination and incurs costs to remediate the soil. The remediation costs are for a betterment to the land under paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section because A incurred the costs to ameliorate a material condition or defect that existed prior to A's acquisition of the land.

# Example 2. Not amelioration of pre-existing condition or defect
B owns an office building that was constructed with insulation that contained asbestos. The health dangers of asbestos were not widely known when the building was constructed. Several years after B places the building into service, B determines that certain areas of asbestos-containing insulation have begun to deteriorate and could eventually pose a health risk to employees. Therefore, B pays an amount to remove the asbestos-containing insulation from the building structure and replace it with new insulation that is safer to employees, but no more efficient or effective than the asbestos insulation. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. Although the asbestos is determined to be unsafe under certain circumstances, the presence of asbestos insulation in a building, by itself, is not a preexisting material condition or defect of the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section. In addition, the removal and replacement of the asbestos is not for a material addition to the building structure or a material increase in the capacity of the building structure under paragraphs (j)(1)(ii) and (j)(2)(iv) of this section as compared to the condition of the property prior to the deterioration of the insulation. Similarly, the removal and replacement of asbestos is not reasonably expected to materially increase the productivity, efficiency, strength, quality, or output of the building structure under paragraphs (j)(1)(iii) and (j)(2)(iv) of this section as compared to the condition of the property prior to the deterioration of the insulation. Therefore, the amount paid to remove and replace the asbestos insulation is not for a betterment to the building structure or an improvement to the building under paragraph (j) of this section.

# Example 3. Not amelioration of pre-existing material condition or defect
(i) In January, Year 1, C purchased a used machine for use in its manufacturing operations. Assume that the machine is a unit of property and has a class life of 10 years. C placed the machine in service in January, Year 1 and at
that time expected to perform manufacturer recommended scheduled maintenance on the machine every three years. The scheduled maintenance includes cleaning and oiling the machine, inspecting parts for defects, and replacing minor items, such as springs, bearings, and seals, with comparable and commercially available replacement parts. The scheduled maintenance does not include any material additions or materially increase the capacity, productivity, efficiency, strength, quality, or output of the machine. At the time C purchased the machine, it was approaching the end of a three-year scheduled maintenance period. As a result, in February, Year 1, C pays an amount to perform the manufacturer recommended scheduled maintenance to keep the machine in its ordinarily efficient operating condition.
(ii) The amount that C pays does not qualify under the routine maintenance safe harbor in paragraph (i) of this section, because the cost primarily results from the prior owner's use of the property and not the taxpayer's use. C acquired the machine just before it had received its three-year scheduled maintenance. Accordingly, the amount that C pays for the scheduled maintenance results from the prior owner's use of the property and ameliorates conditions or defects that existed prior to C's ownership of the machine. Nevertheless, considering the purpose and minor nature of the work performed, this amount does not ameliorate a material condition or defect in the machine under paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section, is not for a material addition to or increase in capacity of the machine under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section, and is not reasonably expected to materially increase the productivity, efficiency, strength, quality, or output of the machine under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section. Therefore, C is not required to capitalize the amount paid for the scheduled maintenance as a betterment to the unit of property under this paragraph (j).

# Example 4. Not amelioration of pre-existing material condition or defect
D purchases a used ice resurfacing machine for use in the operation of its ice skating rink. To comply with local regulations, D is required to routinely monitor the air quality in the ice skating rink. One week after D places the machine into service, during a routine air quality check, D discovers that the operation of the machine is adversely affecting the air quality in the skating rink. As a result, D pays an amount to inspect and retune the machine, which includes replacing minor components of the engine that had worn out prior to D's acquisition of the machine. Assume the resurfacing machine, including the engine, is the unit of property. The routine maintenance safe harbor in paragraph (i) of this section does not apply to the amounts paid, because the activities performed do not relate solely to the taxpayer's use of the machine. The amount that D pays to inspect, retune, and replace minor components of the ice resurfacing machine ameliorates a condition or defect that existed prior to D's acquisition of the equipment. Nevertheless, considering the purpose and minor nature of the work performed, this amount does not ameliorate a material condition or defect in the machine under paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section. In addition, the amount is not paid for a material addition to the machine or a material increase in the capacity of the machine under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section. Also, the activities are not reasonably expected to materially increase the productivity, efficiency, strength, quality, or output of the machine under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section. Therefore, D is not required to capitalize the amount paid to inspect, retune, and replace minor components of the machine as a betterment under this paragraph (j).

# Example 5. Amelioration of material condition or defect
(i) E acquires a building for use in its business of providing assisted living services. Before and after the purchase, the building functions as an assisted living facility. However, at the time of the purchase, E is aware that the building is in a condition that is below the standards that E requires for facilities used in its business. Immediately after the acquisition and during the following two years, while E continues to use the building as an assisted living facility, E pays amounts for extensive repairs and maintenance, and the acquisition of new property to bring the facility into the high-quality condition for which E's facilities are known. The work on E's building includes repairing damaged drywall, repainting, re-wallpapering, replacing windows, repairing and replacing doors, replacing and regrouting tile, repairing millwork, and repairing and replacing roofing materials. The work also involves the replacement of section 1245 property, including window treatments, furniture, and cabinets. The work that E performs affects only the building structure under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section and does not affect any of the building systems described in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. Assume that each section 1245 property is a separate unit of property.
(ii) Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. Considering the purpose of the expenditure and the effect of the expenditures on the building structure, the amounts that E paid for repairs and maintenance to the building structure comprise a betterment to the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section because the amounts ameliorate material conditions that existed prior to E's acquisition
of the building. Therefore, E must treat the amounts paid for the betterment to the building structure as an improvement to the building and must capitalize the amounts under paragraphs (j) and (d)(1) of this section. Moreover, E is required to capitalize the amounts paid to acquire and install each section 1245 property, including each window treatment, each item of furniture, and each cabinet, in accordance with § 1.263(a)-2(d)(1).

# Example 6. Not a betterment; building refresh
(i) F owns a nationwide chain of retail stores that sell a wide variety of items. To maintain the appearance and functionality of its store buildings after several years of wear, F periodically pays amounts to refresh the look and layout of its stores. The work that F performs during a refresh consists of cosmetic and layout changes to the store's interiors and general repairs and maintenance to the store building to modernize the store buildings and reorganize the merchandise displays. The work to each store consists of replacing and reconfiguring display tables and racks to provide better exposure of the merchandise, making corresponding lighting relocations and flooring repairs, moving one wall to accommodate the reconfiguration of tables and racks, patching holes in walls, repainting the interior structure with a new color scheme to coordinate with new signage, replacing damaged ceiling tiles, cleaning and repairing wood flooring throughout the store building, and power washing building exteriors. The display tables and the racks all constitute section 1245 property. F pays amounts to refresh 50 stores during the taxable year. Assume that each section 1245 property within each store is a separate unit of property. Finally, assume that the work does not ameliorate any material conditions or defects that existed when F acquired the store buildings or result in any material additions to the store buildings.
(ii) Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. Considering the facts and circumstances including the purpose of the expenditure, the physical nature of the work performed, and the effect of the expenditure on the buildings' structure and systems, the amounts paid for the refresh of each building are not for any material additions to, or material increases in the capacity of, the buildings' structure or systems as compared with the condition of the structure or systems after the previous refresh. Moreover, the amounts paid are not reasonably expected to materially increase the productivity, efficiency, strength, quality, or output of any building structure or system under as compared to the condition of the structures or systems after the previous refresh. Rather, the work performed keeps F's store buildings' structures and buildings' systems in their ordinarily efficient operating condition. Therefore, F is not required to treat the amounts paid for the refresh of its store buildings' structures and buildings' systems as betterments under paragraphs (j)(1)(ii), (j)(1)(iii), and (j)(2)(iv) of this section. However, F is required to capitalize the amounts paid to acquire and install each section 1245 property in accordance with § 1.263(a)-2(d)(1).

# Example 7. Building refresh; limited improvement
(i) Assume the same facts as
Example 6
except, in the course of the refresh to one of its store buildings, F also pays amounts to increase the building's storage space, add a second loading dock, and add a second overhead door. Specifically, at the same time F pays amounts to perform the refresh, F pays additional amounts to construct an addition to the back of the store building, including adding a new overhead door and loading dock to the building. The work also involves upgrades to the electrical system of the building, including the addition of a second service box with increased amperage and new wiring from the service box to provide lighting and power throughout the new space. Although it is performed at the same time, the construction of the additions does not affect, and is not otherwise related to, the refresh of the retail space.
(ii) Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. Under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section, the amounts paid by F to add the storage space, loading dock, overhead door, and expand the electrical system are for betterments to F's building structure and to the electrical system because they are for material additions to, and a material increase in capacity of, the structure and the electrical system of F's store building. Accordingly, F must treat the amounts paid for these betterments as improvements to the building unit of property and capitalize these amounts under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section. However, for the reasons discussed in
Example 6,
F is not required to treat the amounts paid for the refresh of its store building structure and systems as a betterments under paragraph (j)(1) of this section. In addition, F is not required under paragraph (g)(1) of this section to capitalize the refresh costs described in
Example 6
because these costs do not directly benefit and are not incurred by reason of the additions to the building structure and electrical system. As in
Example 6,
F is required to capitalize the amounts paid to acquire and install each section 1245 property in accordance with § 1.263(a)-2(d)(1).

# Example 8. Betterment; building remodel
(i) G owns a large chain of retail stores that sell a variety of items. G determines that due to changes in the retail market, it can no
longer compete in its current store class and decides to upgrade its stores to offer higher end products to a different type of customer. To offer these products and attract different types of customers, G must substantially remodel its stores. Thus, G pays amounts to remodel its stores by performing work on the buildings' structures and systems as defined under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(A) and (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. This work includes replacing large parts of the exterior walls with windows, replacing the escalators with a monumental staircase, adding a new glass enclosed elevator, rebuilding the interior and exterior facades, replacing vinyl floors with ceramic flooring, replacing ceiling tiles with acoustical tiles, and removing and rebuilding walls to move changing rooms and create specialty departments. The work also includes upgrades to increase the capacity of the buildings' electrical system to accommodate the structural changes and the addition of new section 1245 property, such as new product information kiosks and point of sale systems. The work to the electrical system also involves the installation of new more efficient and mood enhancing lighting fixtures. In addition, the work includes remodeling all bathrooms by replacing contractor-grade plumbing fixtures with designer-grade fixtures that conserve water and energy. Finally, G also pays amounts to clean debris resulting from construction during the remodel, patch holes in walls that were made to upgrade the electrical system, repaint existing walls with a new color scheme to match the new interior construction, and to power wash building exteriors to enhance the new exterior facade.
(ii) Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. Considering the facts and circumstances, including the purpose of the expenditure, the physical nature of the work performed, and the effect of the work on the buildings' structures and buildings' systems, the amounts that G pays for the remodeling of its stores result in betterments to the buildings' structures and several of its systems under paragraph (j) of this section. Specifically, the amounts paid to replace large parts of the exterior walls with windows, replace the escalators with a monumental staircase, add a new elevator, rebuild the interior and exterior facades, replace vinyl floors with ceramic flooring, replace the ceiling tiles with acoustical tiles, and to remove and rebuild walls are for material additions, that is the addition of major components, to the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section and are reasonably expected to increase the quality of the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section. Similarly, the amounts paid to upgrade the electrical system are to materially increase the capacity of the electrical system under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section and are reasonably expected to increase the quality of this system under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section. In addition, the amounts paid to remodel the bathrooms with higher grade and more resource-efficient materials are reasonably expected to increase the efficiency and quality of the plumbing system under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section. Finally, the amounts paid to clean debris, patch and repaint existing walls with a new color scheme, and to power wash building exteriors, while not betterments by themselves, directly benefitted and were incurred by reason of the improvements to G's store buildings' structures and electrical systems under paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Therefore, G must treat the amounts paid for betterments to the store buildings' structures and systems, including the costs of cleaning, patching, repairing, and power washing the building, as improvements to G's buildings and must capitalize these amounts under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section. Moreover, G is required to capitalize the amounts paid to acquire and install each section 1245 property in accordance with § 1.263(a)-2(d)(1). For the treatment of amounts paid to remove components of property, see paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

# Example 9. Not betterment; relocation and reinstallation of personal property
In Year 1, H purchases new cash registers for use in its retail store located in leased space in a shopping mall. Assume that each cash register is a unit of property as determined under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. In Year 1, H capitalizes the costs of acquiring and installing the new cash registers under § 1.263(a)-2(d)(1). In Year 3, H's lease expires, and H decides to relocate its retail store to a different building. In addition to various other costs, H pays $5,000 to move the cash registers and $1,000 to reinstall them in the new store. The cash registers are used for the same purpose and in the same manner that they were used in the former location. The amounts that H pays to move and reinstall the cash registers into its new store do not result in a betterment to the cash registers under paragraph (j) of this section.

# Example 10. Betterment; relocation and reinstallation of equipment
J operates a manufacturing facility in Building A, which contains various machines that J uses in its manufacturing business. J decides to expand part of its operations by relocating a machine to Building B to reconfigure the machine with additional components. Assume that the machine is a single unit of property under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. J pays amounts to disassemble the machine, to move the machine to the new location, and to reinstall the machine in a new configuration with additional components. Assume
that the reinstallation, including the reconfiguration and the addition of components, is for an increase in capacity of the machine, and therefore is for a betterment to the machine under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section. Accordingly, J must capitalize the costs of reinstalling the machine as an improvement to the machine under paragraphs (j) and (d)(1) of this section. J is also required to capitalize the costs of disassembling and moving the machine to Building B because these costs directly benefit and are incurred by reason of the improvement to the machine under paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

# Example 11. Betterment; regulatory requirement
K owns a building that it uses in its business. In Year 1, City C passes an ordinance setting higher safety standards for buildings because of the hazardous conditions caused by earthquakes. To comply with the ordinance, K pays an amount to add expansion bolts to its building structure. These bolts anchor the wooden framing of K's building to its cement foundation, providing additional structural support and resistance to seismic forces, making the building more resistant to damage from lateral movement. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. The framing and foundation are part of the building structure as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. Prior to the ordinance, the old building was in good condition but did not meet City C's new requirements for earthquake resistance. The amount paid by K for the addition of the expansion bolts met City C's new requirement, but also materially increased the strength of the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section. Therefore, K must treat the amount paid to add the expansion bolts as a betterment to the building structure and must capitalize this amount as an improvement to building under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section. Under paragraph (g)(4) of this section, City C's new requirement that K's building meet certain safety standards to continue to operate is not relevant in determining whether the amount paid improved the building.

# Example 12. Not a betterment; regulatory requirement
L owns a meat processing plant. After operating the plant for many years, L discovers that oil is seeping through the concrete walls of the plant. Federal inspectors advise L that it must correct the seepage problem or shut down its plant. To correct the problem, L pays an amount to add a concrete lining to the walls from the floor to a height of about four feet and also to add concrete to the floor of the plant. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. The walls are part of the building structure as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. The condition necessitating the expenditure was the seepage of the oil into the plant. Prior to the seepage, the walls did not leak and were functioning for their intended use. L is not required to treat the amount paid as a betterment under paragraphs (j)(1)(ii) and (j)(2)(iv) of this section because it is not paid for a material addition to, or a material increase in the capacity of, the building's structure as compared to the condition of the structure prior to the seepage of oil. Moreover, the amount paid is not reasonably expected to materially increase the productivity, efficiency, strength, quality, or output of the building structure under paragraphs (j)(1)(iii) and (j)(2)(iv) as compared to the condition of the structure prior to the seepage of the oil Therefore, L is not required to treat the amount paid to correct the seepage as a betterment to the building under paragraph (d)(1) or (j) of this section. The federal inspectors' requirement that L correct the seepage to continue operating the plant is not relevant in determining whether the amount paid improves the plant.

# Example 13. Not a betterment; new roof membrane
M owns a building that it uses for its retail business. Over time, the waterproof membrane (top layer) on the roof of M's building begins to wear, and M began to experience water seepage and leaks throughout its retail premises. To eliminate the problems, a contractor recommends that M put a new rubber membrane on the worn membrane. Accordingly, M pays the contractor to add the new membrane. The new membrane is comparable to the worn membrane when it was originally placed in service by the taxpayer. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. The roof is part of the building structure under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. The condition necessitating the expenditure was the normal wear of M's roof. Under paragraph (j)(2)(iv) of this section, to determine whether the amounts are for a betterment, the condition of the building structure after the expenditure must be compared to the condition of the structure when M placed the building into service because M has not previously corrected the effects of normal wear and tear. Under these facts, the amount paid to add the new membrane to the roof is not for a material addition or a material increase in the capacity of the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section as compared to the condition of the structure when it was placed in service. Moreover,
the new membrane is not reasonably expected to materially increase the productivity, efficiency, strength, quality, or output of the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section as compared to the condition of the building structure when it was placed in service. Therefore, M is not required to treat the amount paid to add the new membrane as a betterment to the building under paragraph (d)(1) or (j) of this section.

# Example 14. Material increase in capacity; building
N owns a factory building with a storage area on the second floor. N pays an amount to reinforce the columns and girders supporting the second floor to permit storage of supplies with a gross weight 50 percent greater than the previous load-carrying capacity of the storage area. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. The columns and girders are part of the building structure defined under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. N must treat the amount paid to reinforce the columns and girders as a betterment under paragraphs (j)(1)(ii) and (j)(1)(iii) of this section because it materially increases the load-carrying capacity and the strength of the building structure. Therefore, N must capitalize this amount as an improvement to the building under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section.

# Example 15. Material increase in capacity; channel
O owns harbor facilities consisting of a slip for the loading and unloading of barges and a channel leading from the slip to the river. At the time of purchase, the channel was 150 feet wide, 1,000 feet long, and 10 feet deep. Several years after purchasing the harbor facilities, to allow for ingress and egress and for the unloading of larger barges, O decides to deepen the channel to a depth of 20 feet. O pays a contractor to dredge the channel to 20 feet. Assume the channel is the unit of property. O must capitalize the amounts paid for the dredging as an improvement to the channel because they are for a material increase in the capacity of the unit of property under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section.

# Example 16. Not a material increase in capacity; channel
Assume the same facts as in
Example 15,
except that the channel was susceptible to siltation and, after dredging to 20 feet, the channel depth had been reduced to 18 feet. O pays a contractor to redredge the channel to a depth of 20 feet. The expenditure was necessitated by the siltation of the channel. Both prior to the siltation and after the redredging, the depth of the channel was 20 feet. Applying the comparison rule under paragraph (j)(2)(iv) of this section, the amounts paid by O to redredge the channel are not for a betterment under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section because they are not for a material addition to, or a material increase in the capacity of, the unit of property as compared to the condition of the property prior to the siltation. Similarly, these amounts are not for a betterment under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section because the amounts are not reasonably expected to increase the productivity, efficiency, strength, quality, or output of the unit of property as compared to the condition of the property before the siltation. Therefore, O is not required to capitalize these amounts as improvement under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section.

# Example 17. Material increase in capacity; channel
Assume the same facts as in
Example 16
except that after the redredging, there is more siltation, and the channel depth is reduced back to 18 feet. In addition, to allow for additional ingress and egress and for the unloading of even larger barges, O decides to deepen the channel to a depth of 25 feet. O pays a contractor to redredge the channel to 25 feet. O must capitalize the amounts paid for the dredging as an improvement to the channel because the amounts are for a material increase in the capacity of the unit of property under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section as compared to condition of the unit of property before the siltation. As part of this improvement, O is also required to capitalize the portion of the redredge costs allocable to restoring the depth lost to the siltation because, under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, these amounts directly benefit and are incurred by reason of the improvement to the unit of property.

# Example 18. Not a material increase in capacity; building
P owns a building used in its trade or business. The first floor has a drop-ceiling. To fully expose windows on the first floor, P pays an amount to remove the drop-ceiling and repaint the original ceiling. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. The ceiling is part of the building structure as defined under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. P is not required to treat the amount paid to remove the drop-ceiling as a betterment to the building because it was not for a material addition or material increase in the capacity of the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section and it was not reasonably expected to materially increase to the efficiency, strength, or quality of the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section. In addition, under paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section, because the effect on productivity and output of the building structure cannot be measured in this context, these factors are not relevant in determining whether there is a betterment to the building structure.

# Example 19. Material increase in capacity; building
Q owns a building that it uses in its retail business. The building contains one floor of retail space with very high ceilings. Q pays an amount to add a stairway and a mezzanine for the purposes of adding additional selling space within its building. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. The stairway and the mezzanine are part of the building structure as defined under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. Q is required to treat the amount paid to add the stairway and mezzanine as a betterment because it is for a material addition to, and an increase in the capacity of, the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section. Therefore, Q must capitalize this amount as an improvement to the building unit of property under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section.

# Example 20. Not material increase in efficiency; HVAC system
R owns an office building that it uses to provide services to customers. The building contains an HVAC system that incorporates 10 roof-mounted units that provide heating and air conditioning for different parts of the building. The HVAC system also consists of controls for the entire system and duct work that distributes the heated or cooled air to the various spaces in the building's interior. After many years of use of the HVAC system, R begins to experience climate control problems in various offices throughout the office building and consults with a contractor to determine the cause. The contractor recommends that R replace two of the roof-mounted units. R pays an amount to replace the two specified units. The two new units are expected to eliminate the climate control problems and to be 10 percent more energy efficient than the replaced units in their original condition. No work is performed on the other roof-mounted heating/cooling units, the duct work, or the controls. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. The HVAC system, including the two-roof mounted units, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section. The replacement of the two roof-mounted units is not a material addition to or a material increase in the capacity of the HVAC system under paragraphs (j)(1)(ii) and (j)(3)(ii) of this section as compared to the condition of the system prior to the climate control problems. In addition, given the 10 percent efficiency increase in two units of the entire HVAC system, the replacement is not expected to materially increase the productivity, efficiency, strength, quality, or output of the HVAC system under paragraphs (j)(1)(iii) and (j)(2)(iv) of this section as compared to the condition of the system prior to the climate control problems. Therefore, R is not required to capitalize the amounts paid for these replacements as betterments to the building unit of property under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section.

# Example 21. Material increase in efficiency; building
S owns a building that it uses in its service business. S conducts an energy assessment and determines that it could significantly reduce its energy costs by adding insulation to its building. S pays an insulation contractor to apply a combination of loose-fill, spray foam, and blanket insulation throughout S's building structure, including within the attic, walls, and crawl spaces. S reasonably expects the new insulation to make the building more energy efficient because the contractor indicated that the new insulation would reduce its annual energy and power costs by approximately 50 percent of its annual costs during the last five years. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. Therefore, under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section, S must capitalize as a betterment the amount paid to add the insulation because the insulation is reasonably expected to materially increase the efficiency of the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section.

# Example 22. Material addition; building
T owns and operates a restaurant, which provides a variety of prepared foods to its customers. To better accommodate its customers and increase customer traffic, T decides to add a drive-through service area. As a result, T pays amounts to partition an area within its restaurant for a drive-through service counter, to construct a service window with necessary security features, to build an overhang for vehicles, and to construct a drive-up menu board. Assume that the drive-up menu board is section 1245 property that is a separate unit of property under paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. The amounts paid for the partition, service window and overhang are betterments to the building structure because they comprise a material addition (that is, a physical expansion, extension, and addition of a major component) to the building structure under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section. Accordingly, T must capitalize as an improvement the amounts paid to add the partition, drive-through window, and overhang under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section. T is also required to capitalize
the amounts paid to acquire and install each section 1245 property in accordance with § 1.263(a)-2(d)(1).

# Example 23. Costs incurred during betterment
U owns a building that it uses in its service business. To accommodate new employees and equipment, U pays amounts to increase the load capacity of its electrical system by adding a second electrical panel with additional circuits and adding wiring and outlets throughout the electrical system of its building. To complete the upgrades to the electrical system, the contractor makes several holes in walls. As a result, U also incurs costs to patch the holes and repaint several walls. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (j)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building unit of property if the amount is paid for a betterment to the building structure or any building system. The amounts paid to upgrade the panel and wiring are for betterments to U's electrical system because they increase the capacity of the electrical system under paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section and increase the strength and output of the electrical system under paragraph (j)(1)(iii) of this section. Accordingly, U is required to capitalize the costs of the upgrade to the electrical system as an improvement to the building unit of property under paragraphs (d)(1) and (j) of this section. Moreover, under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, U is required to capitalize the amounts paid to patch holes and repaint several walls in its building because these costs directly benefit and are incurred by reason of the improvement to U's building unit of property.
(k)
Capitalization of restorations
—(1)
In general.
A taxpayer must capitalize as an improvement an amount paid to restore a unit of property, including an amount paid to make good the exhaustion for which an allowance is or has been made. An amount restores a unit of property only if it—
(i) Is for the replacement of a component of a unit of property for which the taxpayer has properly deducted a loss for that component, other than a casualty loss under § 1.165-7;
(ii) Is for the replacement of a component of a unit of property for which the taxpayer has properly taken into account the adjusted basis of the component in realizing gain or loss resulting from the sale or exchange of the component;
(iii) Is for the restoration of damage to a unit of property for which the taxpayer is required to take a basis adjustment as a result of a casualty loss under section 165, or relating to a casualty event described in section 165, subject to the limitation in paragraph (k)(4) of this section;
(iv) Returns the unit of property to its ordinarily efficient operating condition if the property has deteriorated to a state of disrepair and is no longer functional for its intended use;
(v) Results in the rebuilding of the unit of property to a like-new condition as determined under paragraph (k)(5) of this section after the end of its class life as defined in paragraph (i)(4) of this section; or
(vi) Is for the replacement of a part or combination of parts that comprise a major component or a substantial structural part of a unit of property as determined under paragraph (k)(6) of this section.
(2)
Application of restorations to buildings.
An amount is paid to improve a building if it is paid to restore, as defined under paragraph (k)(1) of this section, a property specified under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) (building), paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) (condominium), paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(B) (cooperative), or paragraph (e)(2)(v)(B) (leased building or portion of building) of this section. For example, an amount is paid to improve a building if it is paid for the replacement of a part or combination of parts that comprise a major component or substantial structural part of the building structure or any one of its building systems (for example, the HVAC system). See paragraph (k)(6) of this section.
(3)
Exception for losses based on salvage value.
A taxpayer is not required to treat as a restoration amounts paid under paragraph (k)(1)(i) or paragraph (k)(1)(ii) of this section if the unit of property has been fully depreciated and the loss is attributable only to remaining salvage value as computed for federal income tax purposes.
(4)
Restoration of damage from casualty
—(i)
Limitation.
For purposes of paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section, the amount paid for restoration of damage to the unit of property that must be capitalized under this paragraph (k) is limited to the excess (if any) of—
(A) The amount prescribed by § 1.1011-1 as the adjusted basis of the single, identifiable property (under § 1.167-7(b)(2)(i)) for determining the
loss allowable on account of the casualty, over
(B) The amount paid for restoration of damage to the unit of property under paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section that also constitutes an improvement under any other provision of paragraph (k)(1) of this section.
(ii)
Amounts in excess of limitation.
The amounts paid for restoration of damage to a unit of property as described in paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section, but that exceed the limitation provided in paragraph (k)(4)(i) of this section, must be treated in accordance with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations that are otherwise applicable. See, for example, § 1.162-4 (repairs and maintenance); § 1.263(a)-2 (costs to acquire and produce units of property); and § 1.263(a)-3 (costs to improve units of property).
(5)
Rebuild to like-new condition.
For purposes of paragraph (k)(1)(v) of this section, a unit of property is rebuilt to a like-new condition if it is brought to the status of new, rebuilt, remanufactured, or a similar status under the terms of any federal regulatory guideline or the manufacturer's original specifications. Generally, a comprehensive maintenance program, even though substantial, does not return a unit of property to a like-new condition.
(6)
Replacement of a major component or a substantial structural part
—(i)
In general.
To determine whether an amount is for the replacement of a part or a combination of parts that comprise a major component or a substantial structural part of the unit of property under paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section, it is appropriate to consider all the facts and circumstances. These facts and circumstances include the quantitative and qualitative significance of the part or combination of parts in relation to the unit of property.
(A)
Major component.
A major component is a part or combination of parts that performs a discrete and critical function in the operation of the unit of property. An incidental component of the unit of property, even though such component performs a discrete and critical function in the operation of the unit of property, generally will not, by itself, constitute a major component.
(B)
Substantial structural part.
A substantial structural part is a part or combination of parts that comprises a large portion of the physical structure of the unit of property.
(ii)
Major components and substantial structural parts of buildings.
In the case of a building, an amount is for the replacement of a major component or a substantial structural part of the building unit of property if—
(A) The replacement includes a part or combination of parts that comprise a major component (as defined in paragraph (k)(6)(i)(A) of this section), or a significant portion of a major component, of any of the properties designated in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) (building), paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) (condominium), paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(B) (cooperative), or paragraph (e)(2)(v)(B) (leased building or leased portion of a building) of this section; or
(B) The replacement includes a part or combination of parts that comprises a large portion of the physical structure of any of the properties designated in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) (building), paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) (condominium), paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(B) (cooperative), or paragraph (e)(2)(v)(B) (leased building or portion of building) of this section.
(7)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (k) only and do not address whether capitalization is required under another provision of this section or another provision of the Code (for example, section 263A). Unless otherwise stated, assume that the taxpayer has not properly deducted a loss for, nor taken into account the adjusted basis on a sale or exchange of, any unit of property, asset, or component of a unit of property that is replaced.

# Example 1. Replacement of loss component
A owns a manufacturing building containing various types of manufacturing equipment. A does a cost segregation study of the manufacturing building and properly determines that a walk-in freezer in the manufacturing building is section 1245 property as defined in section 1245(a)(3). The freezer is not part of the building structure or the HVAC system under paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section. Several components of the walk-in freezer cease to function, and A decides to replace them. A abandons the old
freezer components and properly recognizes a loss from the abandonment of the components. A replaces the abandoned freezer components with new components and incurs costs to acquire and install the new components. Under paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section, A must capitalize the amounts paid to acquire and install the new freezer components because A replaced components for which it had properly deducted a loss.

# Example 2. Replacement of sold component
Assume the same facts as in
Example 1,
except that A did not abandon the components but instead sold them to another party and properly recognized a loss on the sale. Under paragraph (k)(1)(ii) of this section, A must capitalize the amounts paid to acquire and install the new freezer components because A replaced components for which it had properly taken into account the adjusted basis of the components in realizing a loss from the sale of the components.

# Example 3. Restoration after casualty loss
B owns an office building that it uses in its trade or business. A storm damages the office building at a time when the building has an adjusted basis of $500,000. B deducts under section 165 a casualty loss in the amount of $50,000, and properly reduces its basis in the office building to $450,000. B hires a contractor to repair the damage to the building, including the repair of the building roof and the removal of debris from the building premises. B pays the contractor $50,000 for the work. Under paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section, B must treat the $50,000 amount paid to the contractor as a restoration of the building structure because B properly adjusted its basis in that amount as a result of a casualty loss under section 165, and the amount does not exceed the limit in paragraph (k)(4) of this section. Therefore, B must treat the amount paid as an improvement to the building unit of property and, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, must capitalize the amount paid.

# Example 4. Restoration after casualty event
Assume the same facts as in
Example 3,
except that B receives insurance proceeds of $50,000 after the casualty to compensate for its loss. B cannot deduct a casualty loss under section 165 because its loss was compensated by insurance. However, B properly reduces its basis in the property by the amount of the insurance proceeds. Under paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section, B must treat the $50,000 amount paid to the contractor as a restoration of the building structure because B has properly taken a basis adjustment relating to a casualty event described in section 165, and the amount does not exceed the limit in paragraph (k)(4) of this section. Therefore, B must treat the amount paid as an improvement to the building unit of property and, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, must capitalize the amount paid.

# Example 5. Restoration after casualty loss; limitation
(i) C owns a building that it uses in its trade or business. A storm damages the building at a time when the building has an adjusted basis of $500,000. C determines that the cost of restoring its property is $750,000, deducts a casualty loss under section 165 in the amount of $500,000, and properly reduces its basis in the building to $0. C hires a contractor to repair the damage to the building and pays the contractor $750,000 for the work. The work involves replacing the entire roof structure of the building at a cost of $350,000 and pumping water from the building, cleaning debris from the interior and exterior, and replacing areas of damaged dry wall and flooring at a cost of $400,000. Although resulting from the casualty event, the pumping, cleaning, and replacing damaged drywall and flooring, does not directly benefit and is not incurred by reason of the roof replacement.
(ii) Under paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section, C must capitalize as an improvement the $350,000 amount paid to the contractor to replace the roof structure because the roof structure constitutes a major component and a substantial structural part of the building unit of property. In addition, under paragraphs (k)(1)(iii) and (k)(4)(i), C must treat as a restoration the remaining costs, limited to the excess of the adjusted basis of the building over the amounts paid for the improvement under paragraph (k)(1)(vi). Accordingly, C must treat as a restoration $150,000 ($500,000—$350,000) of the $400,000 paid for the portion of the costs related to repairing and cleaning the building structure under paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section. Thus, in addition to the $350,000 to replace the roof structure, C must also capitalize the $150,000 as an improvement to the building unit of property under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. C is not required to capitalize the remaining $250,000 repair and cleaning costs under paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section.

# Example 6. Restoration of property in a state of disrepair
D owns and operates a farm with several barns and outbuildings. D did not use or maintain one of the outbuildings on a regular basis, and the outbuilding fell into a state of disrepair. The outbuilding previously was used for storage but can no longer be used for that purpose because the building is not structurally sound. D decides to restore the outbuilding and pays an amount to shore up the walls and replace the siding. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount is paid to restore the building structure or any building system. The walls and siding are part of the building structure under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. Under paragraph (k)(1)(iv) of this section, D must treat the
amount paid to shore up the walls and replace the siding as a restoration of the building structure because the amounts return the building structure to its ordinarily efficient operating condition after it had deteriorated to a state of disrepair and was no longer functional for its intended use. Therefore, D must treat the amount paid to shore up the walls and replace the siding as an improvement to the building unit of property and, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, must capitalize the amount paid.

# Example 7. Rebuild of property to like-new condition before end of class life
E is a Class I railroad that owns a fleet of freight cars. Assume the freight cars have a recovery period of 7 years under section 168(c) and a class life of 14 years. Every 8 to 10 years, E rebuilds its freight cars. Ten years after E places the freight car in service, E performs a rebuild to the manufacturer's original specification, which includes a complete disassembly, inspection, and reconditioning or replacement of components of the suspension and draft systems, trailer hitches, and other special equipment. E also modifies the car to upgrade various components to the latest engineering standards. The freight car is stripped to the frame, with all of its substantial components either reconditioned or replaced. The frame itself is the longest-lasting part of the car and is reconditioned. The walls of the freight car are replaced or are sandblasted and repainted. New wheels are installed on the car. All the remaining components of the car are restored before they are reassembled. At the end of the rebuild, the freight car has been restored to like-new condition under the manufacturer's specifications. Assume the freight car is the unit of property. E is not required to treat as an improvement and capitalize the amounts paid to rebuild the freight car under paragraph (k)(1)(v) of this section because, although the amounts paid restore the freight car to like-new condition, the amounts were not paid after the end of the class life of the freight car. However, paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(6) of this section are applicable for determining whether any amounts must be capitalized because they are paid for the replacement of a major component or a substantial structural part of the unit of property.

# Example 8. Rebuild of property to like-new condition after end of class life
Assume the same facts as in
Example 7,
except that E rebuilds the freight car 15 years after E places it in service. Under paragraph (k)(1)(v) of this section, E must treat as an improvement and capitalize the amounts paid to rebuild the freight car because the amounts paid restore the freight car to like-new condition after the end of the class life of the freight car.

# Example 9. Not a rebuild to a like-new condition
F is a commercial airline engaged in the business of transporting freight and passengers. To conduct its business, F owns several aircraft. As a condition of maintaining its airworthiness certificates, F is required by the FAA to establish and adhere to a continuous maintenance program for each aircraft in its fleet. F performs heavy maintenance on its airframes every 8 to 10 years. In Year 1, F purchased an aircraft for $15 million. In Year 16, F paid $2 million for the labor and materials necessary to perform the second heavy maintenance visit on the airframe of an aircraft. To perform the heavy maintenance visit, F extensively disassembles the airframe, removing items such as engines, landing gear, cabin and passenger compartment seats, side and ceiling panels, baggage stowage bins, galleys, lavatories, floor boards, cargo loading systems, and flight control surfaces. As specified by F's maintenance manual for the aircraft, F then performs certain tasks on the disassembled airframe for the purpose of preventing deterioration of the inherent safety and reliability levels of the airframe. These tasks include lubrication and service, operational and visual checks, inspection and functional checks, reconditioning of minor parts and components, and removal, discard, and replacement of certain life-limited single cell parts, such as cartridges, canisters, cylinders, and disks. Reconditioning of parts includes burnishing corrosion, repairing cracks, dents, gouges, punctures, tightening or replacing loose or missing fasteners, replacing damaged seals, gaskets, or valves, and similar activities. In addition to the tasks described above, to comply with certain FAA airworthiness directives, F inspects specific skin locations, applies doublers over small areas where cracks were found, adds structural reinforcements, and replaces skin panels on a small section of the fuselage. However, the heavy maintenance does not include the replacement of any major components or substantial structural parts of the aircraft with new components. In addition, the heavy maintenance visit does not bring the aircraft to the status of new, rebuilt, remanufactured, or a similar status under FAA guidelines or the manufacturer's original specifications. After the heavy maintenance, the aircraft was reassembled. Assume the aircraft, including the engines, is a unit of property and has a class life of 12 years under section 168(c). Although the heavy maintenance is performed after the end of the class life of the aircraft, F is not required to treat the heavy maintenance as a restoration and improvement of the unit of property under paragraph (k)(1)(v) of this section because, although extensive, the amounts paid do not restore the aircraft to like-new condition. See also paragraph (i)(1)(iii) of this section for the application of the safe harbor for routine maintenance.

# Example 10. Replacement of major component or substantial structural part; personal property
G is a common carrier that owns a fleet of petroleum hauling trucks. G pays amounts to replace the existing engine, cab, and petroleum tank with a new engine, cab, and tank. Assume the tractor of the truck (which includes the cab and the engine) is a single unit of property and that the trailer (which contains the petroleum tank) is a separate unit of property. The new engine and the cab each constitute a part or combination of parts that comprise a major component of G's tractor, because they perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the tractor. In addition, the cab constitutes a part or combination of parts that comprise a substantial structural part of G's tractor. Therefore, the amounts paid for the replacement of the engine and the cab must be capitalized under paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section. Moreover, the new petroleum tank constitutes a part or combination of parts that comprise a major component and a substantial structural part of the trailer. Accordingly, the amounts paid for the replacement of the tank also must be capitalized under paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section.

# Example 11. Repair performed during restoration
Assume the same facts as in
Example 10,
except that, at the same time the engine and cab of the tractor are replaced, G pays amounts to paint the cab of the tractor with its company logo and to fix a broken taillight on the tractor. The repair of the broken taillight and the painting of the cab generally are deductible expenses under § 1.162-4. However, under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, a taxpayer must capitalize all the direct costs of an improvement and all the indirect costs that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of an improvement. Repairs and maintenance that do not directly benefit or are not incurred by reason of an improvement are not required to be capitalized under section 263(a), regardless of whether they are made at the same time as an improvement. For the amounts paid to paint the logo on the cab, G's need to paint the logo arose from the replacement of the cab with a new cab. Therefore, under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, G must capitalize the amounts paid to paint the cab as part of the improvement to the tractor because these amounts directly benefit and are incurred by reason of the restoration of the tractor. The amounts paid to repair the broken taillight are not for the replacement of a major component, do not directly benefit, and are not incurred by reason of the replacement of the cab or the engine under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, even though the repair was performed at the same time as these replacements. Thus, G is not required to capitalize the amounts paid to repair the broken taillight.

# Example 12. Related amounts to replace major component or substantial structural part; personal property
(i) H owns a retail gasoline station, consisting of a paved area used for automobile access to the pumps and parking areas, a building used to market gasoline, and a canopy covering the gasoline pumps. The premises also consist of underground storage tanks (USTs) that are connected by piping to the pumps and are part of the gasoline pumping system used in the immediate retail sale of gas. The USTs are components of the gasoline pumping system. To comply with regulations issued by the Environmental Protection Agency, H is required to remove and replace leaking USTs. In Year 1, H hires a contractor to perform the removal and replacement, which consists of removing the old tanks and installing new tanks with leak detection systems. The removal of the old tanks includes removing the paving material covering the tanks, excavating a hole large enough to gain access to the old tanks, disconnecting any strapping and pipe connections to the old tanks, and lifting the old tanks out of the hole. Installation of the new tanks includes placement of a liner in the excavated hole, placement of the new tanks, installation of a leak detection system, installation of an overfill system, connection of the tanks to the pipes leading to the pumps, backfilling of the hole, and replacement of the paving. H also is required to pay a permit fee to the county to undertake the installation of the new tanks.
(ii) H pays the permit fee to the county on October 15, Year 1. On December 15, Year 1, the contractor completes the removal of the old USTs and bills H for the costs of removal. On January 15, Year 2, the contractor completes the installation of the new USTs and bills H for the remainder of the work. Assume that H computes its taxes on a calendar year basis and H's gasoline pumping system is the unit of property. Under paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section, H must capitalize the amounts paid to replace the USTs as a restoration to the gasoline pumping system because the USTs are parts or combinations of parts that comprise a major component and substantial structural part of the gasoline pumping system. Moreover, under paragraph (g)(2) of this section, H must capitalize the costs of removing the old USTs because H has not taken a loss on the disposition of the USTs, and the amounts to remove the USTs directly benefit and are incurred by reason of the restoration of, and improvement to, the gasoline pumping system. In addition, under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, H must capitalize the permit fees because they directly benefit and are incurred by reason of the improvement to the gasoline pumping system. Finally, under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, H must capitalize the related amounts paid to improve the gasoline pumping system, including the permit fees, the amount paid to remove the old USTs, and the amount paid to install the new USTs, even though the amounts were
separately invoiced, paid to different parties, and incurred in different tax years.

# Example 13. Not replacement of major component; incidental
J owns a machine shop in which it makes dies used by manufacturers. In Year 1, J purchased a drill press for use in its production process. In Year 3, J discovers that the power switch assembly, which controls the supply of electric power to the drill press, has become damaged and cannot operate. To correct this problem, J pays amounts to replace the power switch assembly with comparable and commercially available replacement parts. Assume that the drill press is a unit of property under paragraph (e) of this section and the power switch assembly is a small component of the drill press that may be removed and installed with relative ease. The power switch assembly is not a major component of the unit of property under paragraph (k)(6)(i)(A) of this section because, although the power assembly may affect the function of J's drill press by controlling the supply of electric power, the power assembly is an incidental component of the drill press. In addition, the power assembly is not a substantial structural part of J's drill press under paragraph (k)(6)(i)(B) of this section. Therefore, J is not required to capitalize the costs to replace the power switch assembly under paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section.

# Example 14. Replacement of major component or substantial structural part; roof
K owns a manufacturing building. K discovers several leaks in the roof of the building and hires a contractor to inspect and fix the roof. The contractor discovers that a major portion of the decking has rotted and recommends the replacement of the entire roof. K pays the contractor to replace the entire roof, including the decking, insulation, asphalt, and various coatings. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount is paid to restore the building structure or any building system. The roof is part of the building structure as defined under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. Because the entire roof performs a discrete and critical function in the building structure, the roof comprises a major component of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. In addition, because the roof comprises a large portion of the physical structure of the building structure, the roof comprises a substantial structural part of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, under either analysis, K must treat the amount paid to replace the roof as a restoration of the building under paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(2) of this section and must capitalize the amount paid as an improvement under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

# Example 15. Not replacement of major component or substantial structural part; roof membrane
L owns a building in which it conducts its retail business. The roof decking over L's building is covered with a waterproof rubber membrane. Over time, the rubber membrane begins to wear, and L begins to experience leaks into its retail premises. However, the building is still functioning in L's business. To eliminate the problems, a contractor recommends that L replace the membrane on the roof with a new rubber membrane. Accordingly, L pays the contractor to strip the original membrane and replace it with a new rubber membrane. The new membrane is comparable to the original membrane but corrects the leakage problems. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount is paid to restore the building structure or any building system. The roof, including the membrane, is part of the building structure as defined under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. Because the entire roof performs a discrete and critical function in the building structure, the roof comprises a major component of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. Although the replacement membrane may aid in the function of the building structure, it does not, by itself, comprise a significant portion of the roof major component under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. In addition, the replacement membrane does not comprise a substantial structural part of L's building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, L is not required to capitalize the amount paid to replace the membrane as a restoration of the building under paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section.

# Example 16. Not a replacement of major component or substantial structural part; HVAC system
M owns a building in which it operates an office that provides medical services. The building contains one HVAC system, which is comprised of three furnaces, three air conditioning units, and duct work that runs throughout the building to distribute the hot or cold air throughout the building. One furnace in M's building breaks down, and M pays an amount to replace it with a new furnace. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount is paid to restore the building structure or any building system. The HVAC system, including the furnaces, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section. As the parts that provide the heating function in the system, the three furnaces, together, perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the HVAC system and are therefore a major component of the HVAC system under paragraph (k)(6)(i)(A) of this section. However, the single furnace is not a significant portion of this major component of the HVAC system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, or a substantial
structural part of the HVAC system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, M is not required to treat the amount paid to replace the furnace as a restoration of the building under paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section.

# Example 17. Replacement of major component or substantial structural part; HVAC system
N owns a large office building in which it provides consulting services. The building contains one HVAC system, which is comprised of one chiller unit, one boiler, pumps, duct work, diffusers, air handlers, outside air intake, and a cooling tower. The chiller unit includes the compressor, evaporator, condenser, and expansion valve, and it functions to cool the water used to generate air conditioning throughout the building. N pays an amount to replace the chiller with a comparable unit. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount is paid to restore the building structure or any building system. The HVAC system, including the chiller unit, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section. The chiller unit performs a discrete and critical function in the operation of the HVAC system because it provides the cooling mechanism for the entire system. Therefore, the chiller unit is a major component of the HVAC system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. Because the chiller unit comprises a major component of a building system, N must treat the amount paid to replace the chiller unit as a restoration to the building under paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(2) of this section and must capitalize the amount paid as an improvement to the building under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

# Example 18. Not replacement of major component or substantial structural part; HVAC system
O owns an office building that it uses to provide services to customers. The building contains a HVAC system that incorporates ten roof-mounted units that provide heating and air conditioning for the building. The HVAC system also consists of controls for the entire system and duct work that distributes the heated or cooled air to the various spaces in the building's interior. O begins to experience climate control problems in various offices throughout the office building and consults with a contractor to determine the cause. The contractor recommends that O replace three of the roof-mounted heating and cooling units. O pays an amount to replace the three specified units. No work is performed on the other roof-mounted heating and cooling units, the duct work, or the controls. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount restores the building structure or any building system. The HVAC system, including the 10 roof-mounted heating and cooling units, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section. As the components that generate the heat and the air conditioning in the HVAC system, the 10 roof-mounted units, together, perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the HVAC system and, therefore, are a major component of the HVAC system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. The three roof-mounted heating and cooling units are not a significant portion of a major component of the HVAC system under (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, or a substantial structural part of the HVAC system, under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Accordingly, O is not required to treat the amount paid to replace the three roof-mounted heating and cooling units as a restoration of the building under paragraph (k)(1)(iv) of this section.

# Example 19. Replacement of major component or substantial structural part; fire protection system
P owns a building that it uses to operate its business. P pays an amount to replace the sprinkler system in the building with a new sprinkler system. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount restores the building structure or any building system. The fire protection and alarm system, including the sprinkler system, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
6
) of this section. As the component that provides the fire suppression mechanism in the system, the sprinkler system performs a discrete and critical function in the operation of the fire protection and alarm system and is therefore a major component of the system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. Because the sprinkler system comprises a major component of a building system, P must treat the amount paid to replace the sprinkler system as restoration to the building unit of property under paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(2) of this section and must capitalize the amount paid as an improvement to the building under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

# Example 20. Replacement of major component or substantial structural part; electrical system
Q owns a building that it uses to operate its business. Q pays an amount to replace the wiring throughout the building with new wiring that meets building code requirements. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount restores the building structure or any building system. The electrical system, including the wiring, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
3
) of this section. As the component that distributes the electricity throughout the system, the wiring performs a discrete and critical function in the operation of the electrical system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. The wiring also comprises a large portion of the physical structure of the electrical system under
paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Because the wiring comprises a major component and a substantial structural part of a building system, Q must treat the amount paid to replace the wiring as a restoration to the building under paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(2) of this section and must capitalize the amount paid as an improvement to the building under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

# Example 21. Not a replacement of major component or substantial structural part; electrical system
R owns a building that it uses to operate its business. R pays an amount to replace 30 percent of the wiring throughout the building with new wiring that meets building code requirements. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount restores the building structure or any building system. The electrical system, including the wiring, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
3
) of this section. All the wiring in the building comprises a major component because it performs a discrete and critical function in the operation of the electrical system. However, the portion of the wiring that was replaced is not a significant portion of the wiring major component under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, nor does it comprise a substantial structural part of the electrical system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6) of this section, the replacement of 30 percent of the wiring is not the replacement of a major component or substantial structural part of the building, and R is not required to treat the amount paid to replace 30 percent of the wiring as a restoration to the building under paragraph (k)(1)(iv) of this section.

# Example 22. Replacement of major component or substantial structural part; plumbing system
S owns a building in which it conducts a retail business. The retail building has three floors. The retail building has men's and women's restrooms on two of the three floors. S decides to update the restrooms by paying an amount to replace the plumbing fixtures in all of the restrooms, including all the toilets and sinks, with modern style plumbing fixtures of similar quality and function. S does not replace the pipes connecting the fixtures to the building's plumbing system. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount restores the building structure or any building system. The plumbing system, including the plumbing fixtures, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section. All the toilets together perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the plumbing system, and all the sinks, together, also perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the plumbing system. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, all the toilets comprise a major component of the plumbing system, and all the sinks comprise a major component of the plumbing system. Accordingly, S must treat the amount paid to replace all of the toilets and all of the sinks as a restoration of the building under paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(2) of this section and must capitalize the amount paid as an improvement to the building under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

# Example 23. Not replacement of major component or substantial structural part; plumbing system
Assume the same facts as
Example 22
except that S does not update all the bathroom fixtures. Instead, S only pays an amount to replace 8 of the total of 20 sinks located in the various restrooms. The 8 replaced sinks, by themselves, do not comprise a significant portion of a major component (the 20 sinks) of the plumbing system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section nor do they comprise a large portion of the physical structure of the plumbing system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6) of this section, the replacement of the eight sinks does not constitute the replacement of a major component or substantial structural part of the building, and S is not required to treat the amount paid to replace the eight sinks as a restoration of a building under paragraph (k)(1)(iv) of this section.

# Example 24. Replacement of major component or substantial structural part; plumbing system
(i) T owns and operates a hotel building. T decides that, to attract customers and to remain competitive, it needs to update the guest rooms in its facility. Accordingly, T pays amounts to replace the bathtubs, toilets, and sinks, and to repair, repaint, and retile the bathroom walls and floors, which is necessitated by the installation of the new plumbing components. The replacement bathtubs, toilets, sinks, and tile are new and in a different style, but are similar in function and quality to the replaced items. T also pays amounts to replace certain section 1245 property, such as the guest room furniture, carpeting, drapes, table lamps, and partition walls separating the bathroom area. T completes this work on two floors at a time, closing those floors and leaving the rest of the hotel open for business. In Year 1, T pays amounts to perform the updates for 4 of the 20 hotel room floors and expects to complete the renovation of the remaining rooms over the next two years.
(ii) Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount restores the building structure or any building system. The plumbing system, including the bathtubs, toilets, and sinks, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section. All the bathtubs, together, all the toilets, together, and all the sinks together in the hotel building perform discrete and critical
functions in the operation of the plumbing system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section and comprise a large portion of the physical structure of the plumbing system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6)(ii) of this section, these plumbing components comprise major components and substantial structural parts of the plumbing system, and T must treat the amount paid to replace these plumbing components as a restoration of, and improvement to, the building under paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(2) of this section. In addition, under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, T must treat the costs of repairing, repainting, and retiling the bathroom walls and floors as improvement costs because these costs directly benefit and are incurred by reason of the improvement to the building. Further, under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, T must treat the costs incurred in Years 1, 2, and 3 for the bathroom remodeling as improvement costs, even though they are incurred over a period of several taxable years, because they are related amounts paid to improve the building unit of property. Accordingly, under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, T must treat all the amounts it incurs to update its hotel restrooms as an improvement to the hotel building and capitalize these amounts. In addition, under § 1.263(a)-2 of the regulations, T must capitalize the amounts paid to acquire and install each section 1245 property.

# Example 25. Not replacement of major component or substantial structural part; windows
U owns a large office building that it uses to provide office space for employees that manage U's operations. The building has 300 exterior windows that represent 25 percent of the total surface area of the building. In Year 1, U pays an amount to replace 100 of the exterior windows that had become damaged. At the time of these replacements, U has no plans to replace any other windows in the near future. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount restores the building structure or any building system. The exterior windows are part of the building structure as defined under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. The 300 exterior windows perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the building structure and are, therefore, a major component of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(i)(A) of this section. However, the 100 windows do not comprise a significant portion of this major component of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section or a substantial structural part of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6) of this section, the replacement of the 100 windows does not constitute the replacement of a major component or substantial structural part of the building, and U is not required to treat the amount paid to replace the 100 windows as restoration of the building under paragraph (k)(1)(iv) of this section.

# Example 26. Replacement of major component; windows
Assume the same facts as
Example 25,
except that that U replaces 200 of the 300 windows on the building. The 300 exterior windows perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the building structure and are, therefore, a major component of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(i)(A) of this section. The 200 windows comprise a significant portion of this major component of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6) of this section, the replacement of the 200 windows comprise the replacement of a major component of the building structure. Accordingly, U must treat the amount paid to replace the 200 windows as a restoration of the building under paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(2) of this section and must capitalize the amount paid as an improvement to the building under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

# Example 27. Replacement of substantial structural part; windows
Assume the same facts as
Example 25,
except that the building is a modern design and the 300 windows represent 90 percent of the total surface area of the building. U replaces 100 of the 300 windows on the building. The 300 exterior windows perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the building structure and are, therefore, a major component of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(i)(A) of this section. The 100 windows do not comprise a significant portion of this major component of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, however, they do comprise a substantial structural part of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6) of this section, the replacement of the 100 windows comprise the replacement of a substantial structural part of the building structure. Accordingly, U must treat the amount paid to replace the 100 windows as a restoration of the building unit of property under paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(2) of this section and must capitalize the amount paid as an improvement to the building under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

# Example 28. Not replacement of major component or substantial structural part; floors
V owns and operates a hotel building. V decides to refresh the appearance of the hotel lobby by replacing the floors in the lobby. The hotel lobby comprises less than 10 percent of the square footage of the entire hotel building. V pays an amount to replace the wood flooring in the lobby with new wood flooring of a similar quality. V did not replace any other flooring in the building. Assume that the wood flooring constitutes section 1250 property. Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and
(k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount restores the building structure or any building system. The wood flooring is part of the building structure under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. All the floors in the hotel building comprise a major component of the building structure because they perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the building structure. However, the lobby floors are not a significant portion of a major component (that is, all the floors) under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, nor do the lobby floors comprise a substantial structural part of the building structure under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6) of this section, the replacement of the lobby floors is not the replacement of a major component or substantial structural part of the building unit of property, and V is not required to treat the amount paid for the replacement of the lobby floors as a restoration to the building under paragraph (k)(1)(iv) of this section.

# Example 29. Replacement of major component or substantial structural part; floors
Assume the same facts as
Example 28,
except that V decides to refresh the appearance of all the public areas of the hotel building by replacing all the floors in the public areas. To that end, V pays an amount to replace all the wood floors in all the public areas of the hotel building with new wood floors. The public areas include the lobby, the hallways, the meeting rooms, the ballrooms, and other public rooms throughout the hotel interiors. The public areas comprise approximately 40 percent of the square footage of the entire hotel building. All the floors in the hotel building comprise a major component of the building structure because they perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of the building structure. The floors in all the public areas of the hotel comprise a significant portion of a major component (that is, all the building floors) of the building structure. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, the replacement of all the public area floors constitutes the replacement of a major component of the building structure. Accordingly, V must treat the amount paid to replace the public area floors as a restoration of the building unit of property under paragraphs (k)(1)(vi) and (k)(2) of this section and must capitalize the amounts as an improvement to the building under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

# Example 30. Replacement with no disposition
(i) X owns an office building with four elevators serving all floors in the building. X replaces one of the elevators. The elevator is a structural component of the office building. X chooses to apply § 1.168(i)-8 to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and before the applicability date of the final regulations. In accordance with § 1.168(i)-8(c)(4)(ii)(A), the office building (including its structural components) is the asset for tax disposition purposes. X also does not make the partial disposition election provided under § 1.168(i)-8(d)(2) for the elevator. Thus, the retirement of the replaced elevator is not a disposition under section 168, and no loss is taken into account for purposes of paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii) Under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (k)(2) of this section, an amount is paid to improve a building if the amount restores the building structure or any building system. The elevator system, including all four elevators, is a building system under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)(
5
) of this section. The replacement elevator does not perform a discrete and critical function in the operation of elevator system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(A) of this section nor does it comprise a large portion of the physical structure of the elevator system under paragraph (k)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. Therefore, under paragraph (k)(6) of this section, the replacement elevator does not constitute the replacement of a major component or substantial structural part of the elevator system. Accordingly, X is not required to treat the amount paid to replace the elevator as a restoration to the building under either paragraph (k)(1)(i) or paragraph (k)(1)(vi) of this section.

# Example 31. Replacement with disposition
The facts are the same as in
Example 30,
except X makes the partial disposition election provided under paragraph § 1.168(i)-8(d)(2) for the elevator. Although the office building (including its structural components) is the asset for disposition purposes, the result of X making the partial disposition election for the elevator is that the retirement of the replaced elevator is a disposition. Thus, depreciation for the retired elevator ceases at the time of its retirement (taking into account the applicable convention), and X recognizes a loss upon this retirement. Accordingly, X must treat the amount paid to replace the elevator as a restoration of the building under paragraphs (k)(1)(i) and (k)(2) of this section and must capitalize the amount paid as an improvement to the building under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. In addition, the replacement elevator is treated as a separate asset for tax disposition purposes pursuant to § 1.168(i)-8(c)(4)(ii)(D), and for depreciation purposes pursuant to section 168(i)(6).
(l)
Capitalization of amounts to adapt property to a new or different use
—(1)
In general.
A taxpayer must capitalize as an improvement an amount paid to adapt a unit of property to a new or different use. In general, an amount is paid to adapt a unit of property to a new or different use if the adaptation is not consistent with the taxpayer's ordinary use of the unit of property at
the time originally placed in service by the taxpayer.
(2)
Application of adaption rule to buildings.
In the case of a building, an amount is paid to improve a building if it is paid to adapt to a new or different use a property specified under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) (building), paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) (condominium), paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(B) (cooperative), or paragraph (e)(2)(v)(B) (leased building or leased portion of building) of this section. For example, an amount is paid to improve a building if it is paid to adapt the building structure or any one of its buildings systems to a new or different use.
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (l) only and do not address whether capitalization is required under another provision of this section or under another provision of the Code (for example, section 263A). Unless otherwise stated, assume that the taxpayer has not properly deducted a loss for any unit of property, asset, or component of a unit of property that is removed and replaced.

# Example 1. New or different use; change in building use
A is a manufacturer and owns a manufacturing building that it has used for manufacturing since Year 1, when A placed it in service. In Year 30, A pays an amount to convert its manufacturing building into a showroom for its business. To convert the facility, A removes and replaces various structural components to provide a better layout for the showroom and its offices. A also repaints the building interiors as part of the conversion. When building materials are removed and replaced, A uses comparable and commercially available replacement materials. Under paragraphs (l)(2) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve A's manufacturing building if the amount adapts the building structure or any designated building system to a new or different use. Under paragraph (l)(1) of this section, the amount paid to convert the manufacturing building into a showroom adapts the building structure to a new or different use because the conversion to a showroom is not consistent with A's ordinary use of the building structure at the time it was placed in service. Therefore, A must capitalize the amount paid to convert the building into a showroom as an improvement to the building under paragraphs (d)(3) and (l) of this section.

# Example 2. Not a new or different use; leased building
B owns and leases out space in a building consisting of twenty retail spaces. The space was designed to be reconfigured; that is, adjoining spaces could be combined into one space. One of the tenants expands its occupancy by leasing two adjoining retail spaces. To facilitate the new lease, B pays an amount to remove the walls between the three retail spaces. Assume that the walls between spaces are part of the building and its structural components. Under paragraphs (l)(2) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve B's building if it adapts the building structure or any of the building systems to a new or different use. Under paragraph (l)(1) of this section, the amount paid to convert three retail spaces into one larger space for an existing tenant does not adapt B's building structure to a new or different use because the combination of retail spaces is consistent with B's intended, ordinary use of the building structure. Therefore, the amount paid by B to remove the walls does not improve the building under paragraph (l) of this section and is not required to be capitalized under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

# Example 3. Not a new or different use; preparing building for sale
C owns a building consisting of twenty retail spaces. C decides to sell the building. In anticipation of selling the building, C pays an amount to repaint the interior walls and to refinish the hardwood floors. Under paragraphs (l)(2) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve C's building to a new or different use if it adapts the building structure or any of the building systems to a new or different use. Preparing the building for sale does not constitute a new or different use for the building structure under paragraph (l)(1) of this section. Therefore, the amount paid by C to prepare the building structure for sale does not improve the building under paragraph (l) of this section and is not required to be capitalized under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

# Example 4. New or different use; land
D owns a parcel of land on which it previously operated a manufacturing facility. Assume that the land is the unit of property. During the course of D's operation of the manufacturing facility, the land became contaminated with wastes from its manufacturing processes. D discontinues manufacturing operations at the site and decides to develop the property for residential housing. In anticipation of building residential property, D pays an amount to remediate the contamination caused by D's manufacturing process. In addition, D pays an amount to regrade the land so that it can be used for residential purposes. Amounts that D pays to clean up wastes do not adapt the land to a new or different use, regardless of the extent to which the land was cleaned, because this cleanup merely returns the land to the condition it was in before the land was contaminated in
D's operations. Therefore, D is not required to capitalize the amount paid for the cleanup under paragraph (l)(1) of this section. However, the amount paid to regrade the land so that it can be used for residential purposes adapts the land to a new or different use that is inconsistent with D's intended ordinary use of the property at the time it was placed in service. Accordingly, the amounts paid to regrade the land must be capitalized as improvements to the land under paragraphs (d)(3) and (l) of this section.

# Example 5. New or different use; part of building
(i) E owns a building in which it operates a retail drug store. The store consists of a pharmacy for filling medication prescriptions and various departments where customers can purchase food, toiletries, home goods, school supplies, cards, over-the-counter medications, and other similar items. E decides to create a walk-in medical clinic where nurse practitioners and physicians' assistants diagnose, treat, and write prescriptions for common illnesses and injuries, administer common vaccinations, conduct physicals and wellness screenings, and provide routine lab tests and services for common chronic conditions. To create the clinic, E pays amounts to reconfigure the pharmacy building. E incurs costs to build new walls creating an examination room, lab room, reception area, and waiting area. E installs additional plumbing, electrical wiring, and outlets to support the lab. E also acquires section 1245 property, such as computers, furniture, and equipment necessary for the new clinic. E treats the amounts paid for those units of property as costs of acquiring new units of property under § 1.263(a)-2.
(ii) Under paragraphs (l)(2) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve E's building if it adapts the building structure or any of the building systems to a new or different use. Under paragraph (l)(1) of this section, the amount paid to convert part of the retail drug store building structure into a medical clinic adapts the building structure to a new and different use, because the use of the building structure to provide clinical medical services is not consistent with E's intended ordinary use of the building structure at the time it was placed in service. Similarly, the amounts paid to add to the plumbing system and the electrical systems to support the new medical services is not consistent with E's intended ordinary use of these systems when the systems were placed in service. Therefore, E must treat the amount paid for the conversion of the building structure, plumbing system, and electrical system as an improvement to the building and capitalize the amount under paragraphs (d)(3) and (l) of this section.

# Example 6. Not a new or different use; part of building
(i) F owns a building in which it operates a grocery store. The grocery store includes various departments for fresh produce, frozen foods, fresh meats, dairy products, toiletries, and over-the-counter medicines. The grocery store also includes separate counters for deli meats, prepared foods, and baked goods, often made to order. To better accommodate its customers' shopping needs, F decides to add a sushi bar where customers can order freshly prepared sushi from the counter for take-home or to eat at the counter. To create the sushi bar, F pays amounts to add a sushi counter and chairs, add additional wiring and outlets to support the counter, and install additional pipes and a sink, to provide for the safe handling of the food. F also pays amounts to replace flooring and wall coverings in the sushi bar area with decorative coverings to reflect more appropriate décor. Assume the sushi counter and chairs are section 1245 property, and F treats the amounts paid for those units of property as costs of acquiring new units of property under § 1.263(a)-2.
(ii) Under paragraphs (l)(2) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve F's building if it adapts the building structure or any of the building systems to a new or different use. Under paragraph (l)(1) of this section, the amount paid to convert a part of F's retail grocery into a sushi bar area does not adapt F's building structure, plumbing system, or electrical system to a new or different use, because the sale of sushi is consistent with F's intended, ordinary use of the building structure and these systems in its grocery sales business, which includes selling food to its customers at various specialized counters. Accordingly, the amount paid by F to replace the wall and floor finishes, add wiring, and add plumbing to create the sushi bar space does not improve the building unit of property under paragraph (l) of this section and is not required to be capitalized under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

# Example 7. Not a new or different use; part of building
(i) G owns a hospital with various departments dedicated to the provision of clinical medical care. To better accommodate its patients' needs, G decides to modify the emergency room space to provide both emergency care and outpatient surgery. To modify the space, G pays amounts to move interior walls, add additional wiring and outlets, replace floor tiles and doors, and repaint the walls. To complete the outpatient surgery center, G also pays amounts to install miscellaneous medical equipment necessary for the provision of surgical services. Assume the medical equipment is section 1245 property, and G treats the amounts paid for those units of property as costs of acquiring new units of property under § 1.263(a)-2.
(ii) Under paragraphs (l)(2) and (e)(2)(ii) of this section, an amount is paid to improve G's building if it adapts the building structure or any of the building systems to a new or different use. Under paragraph (l)(1) of
this section, the amount paid to convert part of G's emergency room into an outpatient surgery center does not adapt G's building structure or electrical system to a new or different use, because the provision of outpatient surgery is consistent with G's intended, ordinary use of the building structure and these systems in its clinical medical care business. Accordingly, the amounts paid by G to relocate interior walls, add additional wiring and outlets, replace floor tiles and doors, and repaint the walls to create outpatient surgery space do not improve the building under paragraph (l) of this section and are not required to be capitalized under paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(m)
Optional regulatory accounting method
—(1)
In general.
This paragraph (m) provides an optional simplified method (the regulatory accounting method) for regulated taxpayers to determine whether amounts paid to repair, maintain, or improve tangible property are to be treated as deductible expenses or capital expenditures. A taxpayer that uses the regulatory accounting method described in paragraph (m)(3) of this section must use that method for property subject to regulatory accounting instead of determining whether amounts paid to repair, maintain, or improve property are capital expenditures or deductible expenses under the general principles of sections 162(a), 212, and 263(a). Thus, the capitalization rules in paragraph (d) (and the routine maintenance safe harbor described in paragraph (i)) of this section do not apply to amounts paid to repair, maintain, or improve property subject to regulatory accounting by taxpayers that use the regulatory accounting method under this paragraph (m).
(2)
Eligibility for regulatory accounting method.
A taxpayer that is engaged in a trade or business in a regulated industry is a regulated taxpayer and may use the regulatory accounting method under this paragraph (m). For purposes of this paragraph (m), a taxpayer is in a regulated industry only if the taxpayer is subject to the regulatory accounting rules of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), or the Surface Transportation Board (STB).
(3)
Description of regulatory accounting method.
Under the regulatory accounting method, a taxpayer must follow the method of accounting for regulatory accounting purposes that it is required to follow for FERC, FCC, or STB (whichever is applicable) in determining whether an amount paid repairs, maintains, or improves property under this section. Therefore, a taxpayer must capitalize for Federal income tax purposes an amount paid that is capitalized as an improvement for regulatory accounting purposes. A taxpayer may not capitalize for Federal income tax purposes under this section an amount paid that is not capitalized as an improvement for regulatory accounting purposes. A taxpayer that uses the regulatory accounting method must use that method for all of its tangible property that is subject to regulatory accounting rules. The method does not apply to tangible property that is not subject to regulatory accounting rules. The method also does not apply to property for the taxable years in which the taxpayer elected to apply the repair allowance under § 1.167(a)-11(d)(2). The regulatory accounting method is a method of accounting under section 446(a).
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (m):

# Example 1. Taxpayer subject to regulatory accounting rules of FERC
W is an electric utility company that operates a power plant that generates electricity and that owns and operates network assets to transmit and distribute the electricity to its customers. W is subject to the regulatory accounting rules of FERC, and W uses the regulatory accounting method under paragraph (m) of this section. W does not capitalize on its books and records for regulatory accounting purposes the cost of repairs and maintenance performed on its turbines or its network assets. Under the regulatory accounting method, W may not capitalize for Federal income tax purposes amounts paid for repairs performed on its turbines or its network assets.

# Example 2. Taxpayer not subject to regulatory accounting rules of FERC
X is an electric utility company that operates a power plant to generate electricity. X previously was subject to the regulatory accounting rules of FERC, but currently X is not required to use FERC's regulatory accounting rules. X cannot use the regulatory accounting method provided in this paragraph (m).

# Example 3. Taxpayer subject to regulatory accounting rules of FCC
Y is a telecommunications company that is subject to the regulatory accounting rules of the FCC. Y uses
the regulatory accounting method under this paragraph (m). Y's assets include a telephone central office switching center, which contains numerous switches and various switching equipment. Y capitalizes on its books and records for regulatory accounting purposes the cost of replacing each switch. Under the regulatory accounting method, Y is required to capitalize for Federal income tax purposes amounts paid to replace each switch.

# Example 4. Taxpayer subject to regulatory accounting rules of STB
Z is a Class I railroad that is subject to the regulatory accounting rules of the STB. Z uses the regulatory accounting method under this paragraph (m). Z capitalizes on its books and records for regulatory accounting purposes the cost of locomotive rebuilds. Under the regulatory accounting method, Z is required to capitalize for Federal income tax purposes amounts paid to rebuild its locomotives.
(n)
Election to capitalize repair and maintenance costs
—(1)
In general.
A taxpayer may elect to treat amounts paid during the taxable year for repair and maintenance (as defined under § 1.162-4) to tangible property as amounts paid to improve that property under this section and as an asset subject to the allowance for depreciation if the taxpayer incurs these amounts in carrying on the taxpayer's trade or business and if the taxpayer treats these amounts as capital expenditures on its books and records regularly used in computing income (“books and records”). A taxpayer that elects to apply this paragraph (n) in a taxable year must apply this paragraph to all amounts paid for repair and maintenance to tangible property that it treats as capital expenditures on its books and records in that taxable year. Any amounts for which this election is made shall not be treated as amounts paid for repair or maintenance under § 1.162-4.
(2)
Time and manner of election.
A taxpayer makes this election under this paragraph (n) by attaching a statement to the taxpayer's timely filed original Federal tax return (including extensions) for the taxable year in which the taxpayer pays amounts described under paragraph (n)(1) of this paragraph. Sections 301.9100-1 through 301.9100-3 of this chapter provide the rules governing extensions of the time to make regulatory elections. The statement must be titled “Section 1.263(a)-3(n) Election” and include the taxpayer's name, address, taxpayer identification number, and a statement that the taxpayer is making the election to capitalize repair and maintenance costs under § 1.263(a)-3(n). In the case of a consolidated group filing a consolidated income tax return, the election is made for each member of the consolidated group by the common parent, and the statement must also include the names and taxpayer identification numbers of each member for which the election is made. In the case of an S corporation or a partnership, the election is made by the S corporation or partnership and not by the shareholders or partners. A taxpayer making this election for a taxable year must treat any amounts paid for repairs and maintenance during the taxable year that are capitalized on the taxpayer's books and records as improvements to tangible property. The taxpayer must begin to depreciate the cost of such improvements amounts when they are placed in service by the taxpayer under the applicable provisions of the Code and regulations. An election may not be made through the filing of an application for change in accounting method or, before obtaining the Commissioner's consent to make a late election, by filing an amended Federal tax return. The time and manner of electing to capitalize repair and maintenance costs under this paragraph (n) may be modified through guidance of general applicability (see §§ 601.601(d)(2) and 601.602 of this chapter).
(3)
Exception.
This paragraph (n) does not apply to amounts paid for repairs or maintenance of rotable or temporary spare parts to which the taxpayer applies the optional method of accounting for rotable and temporary spare parts under § 1.162-3(e).
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (n):

# Example 1. Election to capitalize routine maintenance on non-rotable part
(i) Q is a towboat operator that owns a fleet of towboats that it uses in its trade or business. Each towboat is equipped with two diesel-powered engines. Assume that each towboat, including its engines, is the unit of property and that a towboat has a class life of 18 years. Assume the towboat engines are not rotable spare parts under § 1.162-3(c)(2). In Year 1, Q acquired a new towboat, including
its two engines, and placed the towboat into service. In Year 4, Q pays amounts to perform scheduled maintenance on both engines in the towboat. Assume that none of the exceptions set out in paragraph (i)(3) of this section apply to the scheduled maintenance costs and that the scheduled maintenance on Q's towboat is within the routine maintenance safe harbor under paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section. Accordingly, the amounts paid for the scheduled maintenance to its towboat engines in Year 4 are deemed not to improve the towboat and are not required to be capitalized under paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) On its books and records, Q treats amounts paid for scheduled maintenance on its towboat engines as capital expenditures. For administrative convenience, Q decides to account for these costs in the same way for Federal income tax purposes. Under paragraph (n) of this section, in Year 4, Q may elect to capitalize the amounts paid for the scheduled maintenance on its towboat engines. If Q elects to capitalize such amounts, Q must capitalize all amounts paid for repair and maintenance to tangible property that Q treats as capital expenditures on its books and records in Year 4.

# Example 2. No election to capitalize routine maintenance
Assume the same facts as
Example 1,
except in Year 8, Q pays amounts to perform scheduled maintenance for a second time on the towboat engines. On its books and records, Q treats the amounts paid for this scheduled maintenance as capital expenditures. However, in Year 8, Q decides not to make the election to capitalize the amounts paid for scheduled maintenance under paragraph (n) of this section. Because Q does not make the election under paragraph (n) for Year 8, Q may apply the routine maintenance safe harbor under paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section to the amounts paid in Year 8, and not treat these amounts as capital expenditures. Because the election is made for each taxable year, there is no effect on the scheduled maintenance costs capitalized by Q on its Federal tax return for Year 4.

# Example 3. Election to capitalize replacement of building component
(i) R owns an office building that it uses to provide services to customers. The building contains a HVAC system that incorporates ten roof-mounted units that provide heating and air conditioning for different parts of the building. In Year 1, R pays an amount to replace 2 of the 10 units to address climate control problems in various offices throughout the office building. Assume that the replacement of the two units does not constitute an improvement to the HVAC system, and, accordingly, to the building unit of property under paragraph (d) of this section, and that R may deduct these amounts as repairs and maintenance under § 1.162-4.
(ii) On its books and records, R treats amounts paid for the two HVAC components as capital expenditures. R determines that it would prefer to account for these amounts in the same way for Federal income tax purposes. Under this paragraph (n), in Year 1, R may elect to capitalize the amounts paid for the new HVAC components. If R elects to capitalize such amounts, R must capitalize all amounts paid for repair and maintenance to tangible property that R treats as capital expenditures on its books and records in Year 1.
(o)
Treatment of capital expenditures.
Amounts required to be capitalized under this section are capital expenditures and must be taken into account through a charge to capital account or basis, or in the case of property that is inventory in the hands of a taxpayer, through inclusion in inventory costs.
(p)
Recovery of capitalized amounts.
Amounts that are capitalized under this section are recovered through depreciation, cost of goods sold, or by an adjustment to basis at the time the property is placed in service, sold, used, or otherwise disposed of by the taxpayer. Cost recovery is determined by the applicable Code and regulation provisions relating to the use, sale, or disposition of property.
(q)
Accounting method changes.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a change to comply with this section is a change in method of accounting to which the provisions of sections 446 and 481 and the accompanying regulations apply. A taxpayer seeking to change to a method of accounting permitted in this section must secure the consent of the Commissioner in accordance with § 1.446-1(e) and follow the administrative procedures issued under § 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) for obtaining the Commissioner's consent to change its accounting method.
(r)
Effective/applicability date
—(1)
In general.
Except for paragraphs (h), (m), and (n) of this section, this section applies to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014. Paragraphs (h), (m), and (n) of this section apply to amounts paid in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014. Except as provided in paragraphs (r)(2) and (r)(3) of this section, § 1.263(a)-3 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2011, applies to taxable years beginning before January 1, 2014.
(2)
Early application of this section
—(i)
In general.
Except for paragraphs (h), (m), and (n) of this section, a taxpayer may choose to apply this section to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012. A taxpayer may choose to apply paragraphs (h), (m), and (n) of this section to amounts paid in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012.
(ii)
Transition rule for certain elections on 2012 or 2013 returns.
If under paragraph (r)(2)(i) of this section, a taxpayer chooses to make the election to apply the safe harbor for small taxpayers under paragraph (h) of this section or the election to capitalize repair and maintenance costs under paragraph (n) of this section for amounts paid in its taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and ending on or before September 19, 2013 (applicable taxable year), and the taxpayer did not make the election specified in paragraph (h)(6) or paragraph (n)(2) of this section on its timely filed original Federal tax return for the applicable taxable year, the taxpayer must make the election specified in paragraph (h)(6) or paragraph (n)(2) of this section for the applicable taxable year by filing an amended Federal tax return (including the required statements) for the applicable taxable year on or before 180 days from the due date including extensions of the taxpayer's Federal tax return for the applicable taxable year, notwithstanding that the taxpayer may not have extended the due date.
(3)
Optional application of TD 9564.
A taxpayer may choose to apply § 1.263(a)-3T as contained in TD 9564 (76 FR 81060) December 27, 2011, to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and before January 1, 2014.
[T.D. 9636, 78 FR 57718, Sept. 19, 2013, as amended by T.D. 9636, 79 FR 42191, July 21, 2014; T.D. 9689, 79 FR 48684, Aug. 18, 2014]
§ 1.263(a)-4
Amounts paid to acquire or create intangibles.
(a)
Overview.
This section provides rules for applying section 263(a) to amounts paid to acquire or create intangibles. Except to the extent provided in paragraph (d)(8) of this section, the rules provided by this section do not apply to amounts paid to acquire or create tangible assets. Paragraph (b) of this section provides a general principle of capitalization. Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section identify intangibles for which capitalization is specifically required under the general principle. Paragraph (e) of this section provides rules for determining the extent to which taxpayers must capitalize transaction costs. Paragraph (f) of this section provides a 12-month rule intended to simplify the application of the general principle to certain payments that create benefits of a brief duration. Additional rules and examples relating to these provisions are provided in paragraphs (g) through (n) of this section. The applicability date of the rules in this section is provided in paragraph (o) of this section. Paragraph (p) of this section provides rules applicable to changes in methods of accounting made to comply with this section.
(b)
Capitalization with respect to intangible
s—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a taxpayer must capitalize—
(i) An amount paid to acquire an intangible (see paragraph (c) of this section);
(ii) An amount paid to create an intangible described in paragraph (d) of this section;
(iii) An amount paid to create or enhance a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3) of this section;
(iv) An amount paid to create or enhance a future benefit identified in published guidance in the
Federal Register
or in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2)(ii) of this chapter) as an intangible for which capitalization is required under this section; and
(v) An amount paid to facilitate (within the meaning of paragraph (e)(1) of this section) an acquisition or creation of an intangible described in paragraph (b)(1)(i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section.
(2)
Published guidance.
Any published guidance identifying a future benefit as an intangible for which capitalization is required under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section applies only to amounts paid on or after the date of publication of the guidance.
(3)
Separate and distinct intangible asset
—(i)
Definition.
The term
separate and distinct intangible asset
means a property interest of ascertainable and measurable value in money's worth that is subject to protection under applicable State, Federal or foreign law and the possession and control of which is intrinsically capable of being sold, transferred or pledged (ignoring any restrictions imposed on assignability) separate and apart from a trade or business. In addition, for purposes of this section, a fund (or similar account) is treated as a separate and distinct intangible asset of the taxpayer if amounts in the fund (or account) may revert to the taxpayer. The determination of whether a payment creates a separate and distinct intangible asset is made based on all of the facts and circumstances existing during the taxable year in which the payment is made.
(ii)
Creation or termination of contract rights.
Amounts paid to another party to create, originate, enter into, renew or renegotiate an agreement with that party that produces rights or benefits for the taxpayer (and amounts paid to facilitate the creation, origination, enhancement, renewal or renegotiation of such an agreement) are treated as amounts that do not create (or facilitate the creation of) a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of this paragraph (b)(3). Further, amounts paid to another party to terminate (or facilitate the termination of) an agreement with that party are treated as amounts that do not create a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of this paragraph (b)(3).
See
paragraphs (d)(2), (d)(6), and (d)(7) of this section for rules that specifically require capitalization of amounts paid to create or terminate certain agreements.
(iii)
Amounts paid in performing services.
Amounts paid in performing services under an agreement are treated as amounts that do not create a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of this paragraph (b)(3), regardless of whether the amounts result in the creation of an income stream under the agreement.
(iv)
Creation of computer software.
Except as otherwise provided in the Internal Revenue Code, the regulations thereunder, or other published guidance in the
Federal Register
or in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2)(ii) of this chapter), amounts paid to develop computer software are treated as amounts that do not create a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of this paragraph (b)(3).
(v)
Creation of package design.
Amounts paid to develop a package design are treated as amounts that do not create a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of this paragraph (b)(3). For purposes of this section, the term
package design
means the specific graphic arrangement or design of shapes, colors, words, pictures, lettering, and other elements on a given product package, or the design of a container with respect to its shape or function.
(4)
Coordination with other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
—(i)
In general.
Nothing in this section changes the treatment of an amount that is specifically provided for under any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code (other than section 162(a) or 212) or the regulations thereunder.
(ii)
Example.
The following example illustrates the rule of this paragraph (b)(4):

# Example.
On January 1, 2004, G enters into an interest rate swap agreement with unrelated counterparty H under which, for a term of five years, G is obligated to make annual payments at 11% and H is obligated to make annual payments at LIBOR on a notional principal amount of $100 million. At the time G and H enter into this swap agreement, the rate for similar on-market swaps is LIBOR to 10%. To compensate for this difference, on January 1, 2004, H pays G a yield adjustment fee of $3,790,786. This yield adjustment fee constitutes an amount paid to create an intangible and would be capitalized under paragraph (d)(2) of this section. However, because the yield adjustment fee is a nonperiodic payment on a notional principal contract as defined in § 1.446-3(c), the treatment of this fee is governed by § 1.446-3 and not this section.
(c)
Acquired intangibles
—(1)
In general.
A taxpayer must capitalize amounts paid to another party to acquire any intangible from that party in a purchase or similar transaction. Examples of intangibles within the scope of this
paragraph (c) include, but are not limited to, the following (if acquired from another party in a purchase or similar transaction):
(i) An ownership interest in a corporation, partnership, trust, estate, limited liability company, or other entity.
(ii) A debt instrument, deposit, stripped bond, stripped coupon (including a servicing right treated for federal income tax purposes as a stripped coupon), regular interest in a REMIC or FASIT, or any other intangible treated as debt for federal income tax purposes.
(iii) A financial instrument, such as—
(A) A notional principal contract;
(B) A foreign currency contract;
(C) A futures contract;
(D) A forward contract (including an agreement under which the taxpayer has the right and obligation to provide or to acquire property (or to be compensated for such property, regardless of whether the taxpayer provides or acquires the property));
(E) An option (including an agreement under which the taxpayer has the right to provide or to acquire property (or to be compensated for such property, regardless of whether the taxpayer provides or acquires the property)); and
(F) Any other financial derivative.
(iv) An endowment contract, annuity contract, or insurance contract.
(v) Non-functional currency.
(vi) A lease.
(vii) A patent or copyright.
(viii) A franchise, trademark or tradename (as defined in § 1.197-2(b)(10)).
(ix) An assembled workforce (as defined in § 1.197-2(b)(3)).
(x) Goodwill (as defined in § 1.197-2(b)(1)) or going concern value (as defined in § 1.197-2(b)(2)).
(xi) A customer list.
(xii) A servicing right (for example, a mortgage servicing right that is not treated for Federal income tax purposes as a stripped coupon).
(xiii) A customer-based intangible (as defined in § 1.197-2(b)(6)) or supplier-based intangible (as defined in § 1.197-2(b)(7)).
(xiv) Computer software.
(xv) An agreement providing either party the right to use, possess or sell an intangible described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.
(2)
Readily available software.
An amount paid to obtain a nonexclusive license for software that is (or has been) readily available to the general public on similar terms and has not been substantially modified (within the meaning of § 1.197-2(c)(4)) is treated for purposes of this paragraph (c) as an amount paid to another party to acquire an intangible from that party in a purchase or similar transaction.
(3)
Intangibles acquired from an employee.
Amounts paid to an employee to acquire an intangible from that employee are not required to be capitalized under this section if the amounts are includible in the employee's income in connection with the performance of services under section 61 or 83. For purposes of this section, whether an individual is an employee is determined in accordance with the rules contained in section 3401(c) and the regulations thereunder.
(4)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (c):

# Example 1.
Debt instrument. X corporation, a commercial bank, purchases a portfolio of existing loans from Y corporation, another financial institution. X pays Y $2,000,000 in exchange for the portfolio. The $2,000,000 paid to Y constitutes an amount paid to acquire an intangible from Y and must be capitalized.

# Example 2.
Option. W corporation owns all of the outstanding stock of X corporation. Y corporation holds a call option entitling it to purchase from W all of the outstanding stock of X at a certain price per share. Z corporation acquires the call option from Y in exchange for $5,000,000. The $5,000,000 paid to Y constitutes an amount paid to acquire an intangible from Y and must be capitalized.

# Example 3. Ownership interest in a corporation.
Same as
Example 2,
but assume Z exercises its option and purchases from W all of the outstanding stock of X in exchange for $100,000,000. The $100,000,000 paid to W constitutes an amount paid to acquire an intangible from W and must be capitalized.

# Example 4.
Customer list. N corporation, a retailer, sells its products through its catalog and mail order system. N purchases a customer list from R corporation. N pays R $100,000 in exchange for the customer list. The $100,000 paid to R constitutes an amount paid to acquire an intangible from R and must be capitalized.

# Example 5.
Goodwill. Z corporation pays W corporation $10,000,000 to purchase all of the
assets of W in a transaction that constitutes an applicable asset acquisition under section 1060(c). Of the $10,000,000 consideration paid in the transaction, $9,000,000 is allocable to tangible assets purchased from W and $1,000,000 is allocable to goodwill. The $1,000,000 allocable to goodwill constitutes an amount paid to W to acquire an intangible from W and must be capitalized.
(d)
Created intangibles—(1) In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section (relating to the 12-month rule), a taxpayer must capitalize amounts paid to create an intangible described in this paragraph (d). The determination of whether an amount is paid to create an intangible described in this paragraph (d) is to be made based on all of the facts and circumstances, disregarding distinctions between the labels used in this paragraph (d) to describe the intangible and the labels used by the taxpayer and other parties to the transaction.
(2)
Financial interests
—(i) In general. A taxpayer must capitalize amounts paid to another party to create, originate, enter into, renew or renegotiate with that party any of the following financial interests, whether or not the interest is regularly traded on an established market:
(A) An ownership interest in a corporation, partnership, trust, estate, limited liability company, or other entity.
(B) A debt instrument, deposit, stripped bond, stripped coupon (including a servicing right treated for federal income tax purposes as a stripped coupon), regular interest in a REMIC or FASIT, or any other intangible treated as debt for Federal income tax purposes.
(C) A financial instrument, such as—
(
1
) A letter of credit;
(
2
) A credit card agreement;
(
3
) A notional principal contract;
(
4)
A foreign currency contract;
(
5
) A futures contract;
(
6
) A forward contract (including an agreement under which the taxpayer has the right and obligation to provide or to acquire property (or to be compensated for such property, regardless of whether the taxpayer provides or acquires the property));
(
7
) An option (including an agreement under which the taxpayer has the right to provide or to acquire property (or to be compensated for such property, regardless of whether the taxpayer provides or acquires the property)); and
(
8
) Any other financial derivative.
(D) An endowment contract, annuity contract, or insurance contract that has or may have cash value.
(E) Non-functional currency.
(F) An agreement providing either party the right to use, possess or sell a financial interest described in this paragraph (d)(2).
(ii)
Amounts paid to create, originate, enter into, renew or renegotiate.
An amount paid to another party is not paid to create, originate, enter into, renew or renegotiate a financial interest with that party if the payment is made with the mere hope or expectation of developing or maintaining a business relationship with that party and is not contingent on the origination, renewal or renegotiation of a financial interest with that party.
(iii)
Renegotiate.
A taxpayer is treated as renegotiating a financial interest if the terms of the financial interest are modified. A taxpayer also is treated as renegotiating a financial interest if the taxpayer enters into a new financial interest with the same party (or substantially the same parties) to a terminated financial interest, the taxpayer could not cancel the terminated financial interest without the consent of the other party (or parties), and the other party (or parties) would not have consented to the cancellation unless the taxpayer entered into the new financial interest. A taxpayer is treated as unable to cancel a financial interest without the consent of the other party (or parties) if, under the terms of the financial interest, the taxpayer is subject to a termination penalty and the other party (or parties) to the financial interest modifies the terms of the penalty.
(iv)
Coordination with other provisions of this paragraph (d).
An amount described in this paragraph (d)(2) that is also described elsewhere in paragraph (d) of this section is treated as described only in this paragraph (d)(2).
(v)
Coordination with § 1.263(a)-5. See
§ 1.263(a)-5 for the treatment of borrowing costs and the treatment of amounts paid by an option writer.
(vi)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (d)(2):

# Example 1. Loan.
X corporation, a commercial bank, makes a loan to A in the principal amount of $250,000. The $250,000 principal amount of the loan paid to A constitutes an amount paid to another party to create a debt instrument with that party under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(B) of this section and must be capitalized.

# Example 2. Option.
W corporation owns all of the outstanding stock of X corporation. Y corporation pays W $1,000,000 in exchange for W's grant of a 3-year call option to Y permitting Y to purchase all of the outstanding stock of X at a certain price per share. Y's payment of $1,000,000 to W constitutes an amount paid to another party to create an option with that party under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C)(
7
) of this section and must be capitalized.

# Example 3. Partnership interest.
Z corporation pays $10,000 to P, a partnership, in exchange for an ownership interest in P. Z's payment of $10,000 to P constitutes an amount paid to another party to create an ownership interest in a partnership with that party under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section and must be capitalized.

# Example 4. Take or pay contract.
Q corporation, a producer of natural gas, pays $1,000,000 to R during 2005 to induce R corporation to enter into a 5-year “take or pay” gas purchase contract. Under the contract, R is liable to pay for a specified minimum amount of gas, whether or not R takes such gas. Q's payment of $1,000,000 is an amount paid to another party to induce that party to enter into an agreement providing Q the right and obligation to provide property or be compensated for such property (regardless of whether the property is provided) under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C)(
6
) of this section and must be capitalized.

# Example 5. Agreement to provide property.
P corporation pays R corporation $1,000,000 in exchange for R's agreement to purchase 1,000 units of P's product at any time within the three succeeding calendar years. The agreement describes P's $1,000,000 as a sales discount. P's $1,000,000 payment is an amount paid to induce R to enter into an agreement providing P the right and obligation to provide property under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C)(
6
) of this section and must be capitalized.

# Example 6. Customer incentive payment.
S corporation, a computer manufacturer, seeks to develop a business relationship with V corporation, a computer retailer. As an incentive to encourage V to purchase computers from S, S enters into an agreement with V under which S agrees that, if V purchases $20,000,000 of computers from S within 3 years from the date of the agreement, S will pay V $2,000,000 on the date that V reaches the $20,000,000 threshold. V reaches the $20,000,000 threshold during the third year of the agreement, and S pays V $2,000,000. S is not required to capitalize its payment to V under this paragraph (d)(2) because the payment does not provide S the right or obligation to provide property and does not create a separate and distinct intangible asset for S within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.
(3)
Prepaid expenses
—(i) In general. A taxpayer must capitalize prepaid expenses.
(ii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (d)(3):

# Example 1. Prepaid insurance.
N corporation, an accrual method taxpayer, pays $10,000 to an insurer to obtain three years of coverage under a property and casualty insurance policy. The $10,000 is a prepaid expense and must be capitalized under this paragraph (d)(3). Paragraph (d)(2) of this section does not apply to the payment because the policy has no cash value.

# Example 2. Prepaid rent.
X corporation, a cash method taxpayer, enters into a 24-month lease of office space. At the time of the lease signing, X prepays $240,000. No other amounts are due under the lease. The $240,000 is a prepaid expense and must be capitalized under this paragraph (d)(3).
(4)
Certain memberships and privileges
—(i)
In general.
A taxpayer must capitalize amounts paid to an organization to obtain, renew, renegotiate, or upgrade a membership or privilege from that organization. A taxpayer is not required to capitalize under this paragraph (d)(4) an amount paid to obtain, renew, renegotiate or upgrade certification of the taxpayer's products, services, or business processes.
(ii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (d)(4):

# Example 1. Hospital privilege.
B, a physician, pays $10,000 to Y corporation to obtain lifetime staff privileges at a hospital operated by Y. B must capitalize the $10,000 payment under this paragraph (d)(4).

# Example 2. Initiation fee.
X corporation pays a $50,000 initiation fee to obtain membership in a trade association. X must capitalize the $50,000 payment under this paragraph (d)(4).

# Example 3. Product rating.
V corporation, an automobile manufacturer, pays W corporation, a national quality ratings association, $100,000 to conduct a study and provide a rating of the quality and safety of a line of V's automobiles. V's payment is an amount paid to obtain a certification of V's product and is
not required to be capitalized under this paragraph (d)(4).

# Example 4. Business process certification.
Z corporation, a manufacturer, seeks to obtain a certification that its quality control standards meet a series of international standards known as ISO 9000. Z pays $50,000 to an independent registrar to obtain a certification from the registrar that Z's quality management system conforms to the ISO 9000 standard. Z's payment is an amount paid to obtain a certification of Z's business processes and is not required to be capitalized under this paragraph (d)(4).
(5)
Certain rights obtained from a governmental agency
—(i)
In general.
A taxpayer must capitalize amounts paid to a governmental agency to obtain, renew, renegotiate, or upgrade its rights under a trademark, trade name, copyright, license, permit, franchise, or other similar right granted by that governmental agency.
(ii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (d)(5):

# Example 1. Business license.
X corporation pays $15,000 to state Y to obtain a business license that is valid indefinitely. Under this paragraph (d)(5), the amount paid to state Y is an amount paid to a government agency for a right granted by that agency. Accordingly, X must capitalize the $15,000 payment.

# Example 2. Bar admission.
A, an individual, pays $1,000 to an agency of state Z to obtain a license to practice law in state Z that is valid indefinitely, provided A adheres to the requirements governing the practice of law in state Z. Under this paragraph (d)(5), the amount paid to state Z is an amount paid to a government agency for a right granted by that agency. Accordingly, A must capitalize the $1,000 payment.
(6)
Certain contract rights
—(i)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (d)(6), a taxpayer must capitalize amounts paid to another party to create, originate, enter into, renew or renegotiate with that party—
(A) An agreement providing the taxpayer the right to use tangible or intangible property or the right to be compensated for the use of tangible or intangible property;
(B) An agreement providing the taxpayer the right to provide or to receive services (or the right to be compensated for services regardless of whether the taxpayer provides such services);
(C) A covenant not to compete or an agreement having substantially the same effect as a covenant not to compete (except, in the case of an agreement that requires the performance of services, to the extent that the amount represents reasonable compensation for services actually rendered);
(D) An agreement not to acquire additional ownership interests in the taxpayer; or
(E) An agreement providing the taxpayer (as the covered party) with an annuity, an endowment, or insurance coverage.
(ii)
Amounts paid to create, originate, enter into, renew or renegotiate.
An amount paid to another party is not paid to create, originate, enter into, renew or renegotiate an agreement with that party if the payment is made with the mere hope or expectation of developing or maintaining a business relationship with that party and is not contingent on the origination, renewal or renegotiation of an agreement with that party.
(iii)
Renegotiate.
A taxpayer is treated as renegotiating an agreement if the terms of the agreement are modified. A taxpayer also is treated as renegotiating an agreement if the taxpayer enters into a new agreement with the same party (or substantially the same parties) to a terminated agreement, the taxpayer could not cancel the terminated agreement without the consent of the other party (or parties), and the other party (or parties) would not have consented to the cancellation unless the taxpayer entered into the new agreement. A taxpayer is treated as unable to cancel an agreement without the consent of the other party (or parties) if, under the terms of the agreement, the taxpayer is subject to a termination penalty and the other party (or parties) to the agreement modifies the terms of the penalty.
(iv)
Right.
An agreement does not provide the taxpayer a right to use property or to provide or receive services if the agreement may be terminated at will by the other party (or parties) to the agreement before the end of the period prescribed by paragraph (f)(1) of this section. An agreement is not terminable at will if the
other party (or parties) to the agreement is economically compelled not to terminate the agreement until the end of the period prescribed by paragraph (f)(1) of this section. All of the facts and circumstances will be considered in determining whether the other party (or parties) to an agreement is economically compelled not to terminate the agreement. An agreement also does not provide the taxpayer the right to provide services if the agreement merely provides that the taxpayer will stand ready to provide services if requested, but places no obligation on another person to request or pay for the taxpayer's services.
(v)
De minimis amounts.
A taxpayer is not required to capitalize amounts paid to another party (or parties) to create, originate, enter into, renew or renegotiate with that party (or those parties) an agreement described in paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section if the aggregate of all amounts paid to that party (or those parties) with respect to the agreement does not exceed $5,000. If the aggregate of all amounts paid to the other party (or parties) with respect to that agreement exceeds $5,000, then all amounts must be capitalized. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(6), an amount paid in the form of property is valued at its fair market value at the time of the payment. In general, a taxpayer must determine whether the rules of this paragraph (d)(6)(v) apply by accounting for the specific amounts paid with respect to each agreement. However, a taxpayer that reasonably expects to create, originate, enter into, renew or renegotiate at least 25 similar agreements during the taxable year may establish a pool of agreements for purposes of determining the amounts paid with respect to the agreements in the pool. Under this pooling method, the amount paid with respect to each agreement included in the pool is equal to the average amount paid with respect to all agreements included in the pool. A taxpayer computes the average amount paid with respect to all agreements included in the pool by dividing the sum of all amounts paid with respect to all agreements included in the pool by the number of agreements included in the pool. See paragraph (h) of this section for additional rules relating to pooling.
(vi)
Exception for lessee construction allowances.
Paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section does not apply to amounts paid by a lessor to a lessee as a construction allowance to the extent the lessee expends the amount for the tangible property that is owned by the lessor for Federal income tax purposes (
see,
for example, section 110).
(vii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (d)(6):

# Example 1. New lease agreement.
V seeks to lease commercial property in a prominent downtown location of city R. V pays Z, the owner of the commercial property, $50,000 in exchange for Z entering into a 10-year lease with V. V's payment is an amount paid to another party to enter into an agreement providing V the right to use tangible property. Because the $50,000 payment exceeds $5,000, no portion of the amount paid to Z is
de minimis
for purposes of paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section. Under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A) of this section, V must capitalize the entire $50,000 payment.

# Example 2. Modification of lease agreement.
Partnership Y leases a piece of equipment for use in its business from Z corporation. When the lease has a remaining term of 3 years, Y requests that Z modify the existing lease by extending the remaining term by 5 years. Y pays $50,000 to Z in exchange for Z's agreement to modify the existing lease. Y's payment of $50,000 is an amount paid to another party to renegotiate an agreement providing Y the right to use property. Because the $50,000 payment exceeds $5,000, no portion of the amount paid to Z is
de minimis
for purposes of paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section. Under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A) of this section, Y must capitalize the entire $50,000 payment.

# Example 3. Modification of lease agreement.
In 2004, R enters into a 5-year, non-cancelable lease of a mainframe computer for use in its business. R subsequently determines that the mainframe computer that R is leasing is no longer adequate for its needs. In 2006, R and P corporation (the lessor) agree to terminate the 2004 lease and to enter into a new 5-year lease for a different and more powerful mainframe computer. R pays P a $75,000 early termination fee. P would not have agreed to terminate the 2004 lease unless R agreed to enter into the 2006 lease. R's payment of $75,000 is an amount paid to another party to renegotiate an agreement providing R the right to use property. Because the $75,000 payment exceeds $5,000, no portion of the amount paid to P is
de minimis
for purposes of paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section. Under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A)
of this section, R must capitalize the entire $75,000 payment.

# Example 4. Modification of lease agreement.
Same as
Example 3,
except the 2004 lease agreement allows R to terminate the lease at any time subject to a $75,000 early termination fee. Because R can terminate the lease without P's approval, R's payment of $75,000 is not an amount paid to another party to renegotiate an agreement. Accordingly, R is not required to capitalize the $75,000 payment under this paragraph (d)(6).

# Example 5. Modification of lease agreement.
Same as
Example 4,
except P agreed to reduce the early termination fee to $60,000. Because R did not pay an amount to renegotiate the early termination fee, R's payment of $60,000 is not an amount paid to another party to renegotiate an agreement. Accordingly, R is not required to capitalize the $60,000 payment under this paragraph (d)(6).

# Example 6. Covenant not to compete.
R corporation enters into an agreement with A, an individual, that prohibits A from competing with R for a period of three years. To encourage A to enter into the agreement, R agrees to pay A $100,000 upon the signing of the agreement. R's payment is an amount paid to another party to enter into a covenant not to compete. Because the $100,000 payment exceeds $5,000, no portion of the amount paid to A is
de minimis
for purposes of paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section. Under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(C) of this section, R must capitalize the entire $100,000 payment.

# Example 7. Standstill agreement.
During 2004 through 2005, X corporation acquires a large minority interest in the stock of Z corporation. To ensure that X does not take control of Z, Z pays X $5,000,000 for a standstill agreement under which X agrees not to acquire any more stock in Z for a period of 10 years. Z's payment is an amount paid to another party to enter into an agreement not to acquire additional ownership interests in Z. Because the $5,000,000 payment exceeds $5,000, no portion of the amount paid to X is
de minimis
for purposes of paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section. Under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(D) of this section, Z must capitalize the entire $5,000,000 payment.

# Example 8. Signing bonus.
Employer B pays a $25,000 signing bonus to employee C to induce C to come to work for B. C can leave B's employment at any time to work for a competitor of B and is not required to repay the $25,000 bonus to B. Because C is not economically compelled to continue his employment with B, B's payment does not provide B the right to receive services from C. Accordingly, B is not required to capitalize the $25,000 payment.

# Example 9. Renewal.
In 2000, M corporation and N corporation enter into a 5-year agreement that gives M the right to manage N's investment portfolio. In 2005, N has the option of renewing the agreement for another three years. During 2004, M pays $10,000 to send several employees of N to an investment seminar. M pays the $10,000 to help develop and maintain its business relationship with N with the expectation that N will renew its agreement with M in 2005. Because M's payment is not contingent on N agreeing to renew the agreement, M's payment is not an amount paid to renew an agreement under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section and is not required to be capitalized.

# Example 10. De minimis payments.
X corporation is engaged in the business of providing wireless telecommunications services to customers. To induce customer B to enter into a 3-year non-cancelable telecommunications contract, X provides B with a free wireless telephone. The fair market value of the wireless telephone is $300 at the time it is provided to B. X's provision of a wireless telephone to B is an amount paid to B to induce B to enter into an agreement providing X the right to provide services, as described in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(B) of this section. Because the amount of the inducement is $300, the amount of the inducement is
de minimis
under paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section. Accordingly, X is not required to capitalize the amount of the inducement provided to B.
(7)
Certain contract terminations
—(i)
In general.
A taxpayer must capitalize amounts paid to another party to terminate—
(A) A lease of real or tangible personal property between the taxpayer (as lessor) and that party (as lessee);
(B) An agreement that grants that party the exclusive right to acquire or use the taxpayer's property or services or to conduct the taxpayer's business (other than an intangible described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section or a financial interest described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section); or
(C) An agreement that prohibits the taxpayer from competing with that party or from acquiring property or services from a competitor of that party.
(ii)
Certain break-up fees.
Paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section does not apply to the termination of a transaction described in § 1.263(a)-5(a) (relating to an acquisition of a trade or business, a change in the capital structure of a business entity, and certain other transactions).
See
§ 1.263(a)-5(c)(8) for rules governing the treatment of amounts paid to terminate a transaction to which that section applies.
(iii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (d)(7):

# Example 1. Termination of exclusive license agreement.
On July 1, 2005, N enters into a license agreement with R corporation under which N grants R the exclusive right to manufacture and distribute goods using N's design and trademarks for a period of 10 years. On June 30, 2007, N pays R $5,000,000 in exchange for R's agreement to terminate the exclusive license agreement. N's payment to terminate its license agreement with R constitutes a payment to terminate an exclusive license to use the taxpayer's property, as described in paragraph (d)(7)(i)(B) of this section. Accordingly, N must capitalize its $5,000,000 payment to R.

# Example 2. Termination of exclusive distribution agreement.
On March 1, 2005, L, a manufacturer, enters into an agreement with M granting M the right to be the sole distributor of L's products in state X for 10 years. On July 1, 2008, L pays M $50,000 in exchange for M's agreement to terminate the distribution agreement. L's payment to terminate its agreement with M constitutes a payment to terminate an exclusive right to acquire L's property, as described in paragraph (d)(7)(i)(B) of this section. Accordingly, L must capitalize its $50,000 payment to M.

# Example 3. Termination of covenant not to compete.
On February 1, 2005, Y corporation enters into a covenant not to compete with Z corporation that prohibits Y from competing with Z in city V for a period of 5 years. On January 31, 2007, Y pays Z $1,000,000 in exchange for Z's agreement to terminate the covenant not to compete. Y's payment to terminate the covenant not to compete with Z constitutes a payment to terminate an agreement that prohibits Y from competing with Z, as described in paragraph (d)(7)(i)(C) of this section. Accordingly, Y must capitalize its $1,000,000 payment to Z.

# Example 4. Termination of merger agreement.
N corporation and U corporation enter into an agreement under which N agrees to merge into U. Subsequently, N pays U $10,000,000 to terminate the merger agreement. As provided in paragraph (d)(7)(ii) of this section, N's $10,000,000 payment to terminate the merger agreement with U is not required to be capitalized under this paragraph (d)(7). In addition, N's $10,000,000 does not create a separate and distinct intangible asset for N within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. (
See
§ 1.263(a)-5 for additional rules regarding termination of merger agreements).
(8)
Certain benefits arising from the provision, production, or improvement of real property
—(i)
In general.
A taxpayer must capitalize amounts paid for real property if the taxpayer transfers ownership of the real property to another person (except to the extent the real property is sold for fair market value) and if the real property can reasonably be expected to produce significant economic benefits to the taxpayer after the transfer. A taxpayer also must capitalize amounts paid to produce or improve real property owned by another (except to the extent the taxpayer is selling services at fair market value to produce or improve the real property) if the real property can reasonably be expected to produce significant economic benefits for the taxpayer.
(ii)
Exclusions.
A taxpayer is not required to capitalize an amount under paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section if the taxpayer transfers real property or pays an amount to produce or improve real property owned by another in exchange for services, the purchase or use of property, or the creation of an intangible described in paragraph (d) of this section (other than in this paragraph (d)(8)). The preceding sentence does not apply to the extent the taxpayer does not receive fair market value consideration for the real property that is relinquished or for the amounts that are paid by the taxpayer to produce or improve real property owned by another.
(iii)
Real property.
For purposes of this paragraph (d)(8), real property includes property that is affixed to real property and that will ordinarily remain affixed for an indefinite period of time, such as roads, bridges, tunnels, pavements, wharves and docks, breakwaters and sea walls, elevators, power generation and transmission facilities, and pollution control facilities.
(iv)
Impact fees and dedicated improvements.
Paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section does not apply to amounts paid to satisfy one-time charges imposed by a State or local government against new development (or expansion of existing development) to finance specific offsite capital improvements for general public use that are necessitated by the new or expanded development. In addition, paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section does not apply to amounts paid for real property or improvements to real property constructed by the taxpayer where
the real property or improvements benefit new development or expansion of existing development, are immediately transferred to a State or local government for dedication to the general public use, and are maintained by the State or local government. See section 263A and the regulations thereunder for capitalization rules that apply to amounts referred to in this paragraph (d)(8)(iv).
(v)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (d)(8):

# Example 1. Amount paid to produce real property owned by another.
W corporation operates a quarry on the east side of a river in city Z and a crusher on the west side of the river. City Z's existing bridges are of insufficient capacity to be traveled by trucks in transferring stone from W's quarry to its crusher. As a result, the efficiency of W's operations is greatly reduced. W contributes $1,000,000 to city Z to defray in part the cost of constructing a publicly owned bridge capable of accommodating W's trucks. W's payment to city Z is an amount paid to produce or improve real property (within the meaning of paragraph (d)(8)(iii) of this section) that can reasonably be expected to produce significant economic benefits for W. Under paragraph (d)(8)(i) of this section, W must capitalize the $1,000,000 paid to city Z.

# Example 2. Transfer of real property to another.
K corporation, a shipping company, uses smaller vessels to unload its ocean-going vessels at port X. There is no natural harbor at port X, and during stormy weather the transfer of freight between K's ocean vessels and port X is extremely difficult and sometimes impossible, which can be very costly to K. Consequently, K constructs a short breakwater at a cost of $50,000. The short breakwater, however, is inadequate, so K persuades the port authority to build a larger breakwater that will allow K to unload its vessels at any time of the year and during all kinds of weather. K contributes the short breakwater and pays $200,000 to the port authority for use in building the larger breakwater. Because the transfer of the small breakwater and $200,000 is reasonably expected to produce significant economic benefits for K, K must capitalize both the adjusted basis of the small breakwater (determined at the time the small breakwater is contributed) and the $200,000 payment under this paragraph (d)(8).

# Example 3. Dedicated improvements.
X corporation is engaged in the development and sale of residential real estate. In connection with a residential real estate project under construction by X in city Z, X is required by city Z to construct ingress and egress roads to and from its project and immediately transfer the roads to city Z for dedication to general public use. The roads will be maintained by city Z. X pays its subcontractor $100,000 to construct the ingress and egress roads. X's payment is a dedicated improvement within the meaning of paragraph (d)(8)(iv) of this section. Accordingly, X is not required to capitalize the $100,000 payment under this paragraph (d)(8). See section 263A and the regulations thereunder for capitalization rules that apply to amounts referred to in paragraph (d)(8)(iv) of this section.
(9)
Defense or perfection of title to intangible property
—(i)
In general.
A taxpayer must capitalize amounts paid to another party to defend or perfect title to intangible property if that other party challenges the taxpayer's title to the intangible property.
(ii)
Certain break-up fees.
Paragraph (d)(9)(i) of this section does not apply to the termination of a transaction described in § 1.263(a)-5(a) (relating to an acquisition of a trade or business, a change in the capital structure of a business entity, and certain other transactions).
See
§ 1.263(a)-5 for rules governing the treatment of amounts paid to terminate a transaction to which that section applies. Paragraph (d)(9)(i) of this section also does not apply to an amount paid to another party to terminate an agreement that grants that party the right to purchase the taxpayer's intangible property.
(iii)
Example.
The following example illustrates the rules of this paragraph (d)(9):

# Example. Defense of title.
R corporation claims to own an exclusive patent on a particular technology. U corporation brings a lawsuit against R, claiming that U is the true owner of the patent and that R stole the technology from U. The sole issue in the suit involves the validity of R's patent. R chooses to settle the suit by paying U $100,000 in exchange for U's release of all future claim to the patent. R's payment to U is an amount paid to defend or perfect title to intangible property under paragraph (d)(9) of this section and must be capitalized.
(e)
Transaction costs
—(1)
Scope of facilitate
—(i)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, an amount is paid to facilitate the acquisition or creation of an intangible (the transaction) if the amount is paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing the transaction. Whether
an amount is paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing the transaction is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances. In determining whether an amount is paid to facilitate a transaction, the fact that the amount would (or would not) have been paid but for the transaction is relevant, but is not determinative. An amount paid to determine the value or price of an intangible is an amount paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing the transaction.
(ii)
Treatment of termination payments.
An amount paid to terminate (or acilitate the termination of) an existing agreement does not facilitate the acquisition or creation of another agreement under this section. See paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section for the treatment of termination fees paid to the other party (or parties) of a renegotiated agreement.
(iii)
Special rule for contracts.
An amount is treated as not paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing the creation of an agreement described in paragraph (d)(2) or (d)(6) of this section if the amount relates to activities performed before the earlier of the date the taxpayer begins preparing its bid for the agreement or the date the taxpayer begins discussing or negotiating the agreement with another party to the agreement.
(iv)
Borrowing costs.
An amount paid to facilitate a borrowing does not facilitate an acquisition or creation of an intangible described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
See
§§ 1.263(a)-5 and 1.446-5 for the treatment of an amount paid to facilitate a borrowing.
(v)
Special rule for stock redemption costs of open-end regulated investment companies.
An amount paid by an open-end regulated investment company (within the meaning of section 851) to facilitate a redemption of its stock is treated as an amount that does not facilitate the acquisition of an intangible under this section.
(2)
Coordination with paragraph (d) of this section.
In the case of an amount paid to facilitate the creation of an intangible described in paragraph (d) of this section, the provisions of this paragraph (e) apply regardless of whether a payment described in paragraph (d) is made.
(3)
Transaction.
For purposes of this section, the term
transaction
means all of the factual elements comprising an acquisition or creation of an intangible and includes a series of steps carried out as part of a single plan. Thus, a transaction can involve more than one invoice and more than one intangible. For example, a purchase of intangibles under one purchase agreement constitutes a single transaction, notwithstanding the fact that the acquisition involves multiple intangibles and the amounts paid to facilitate the acquisition are capable of being allocated among the various intangibles acquired.
(4)
Simplifying conventions
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of this section, employee compensation (within the meaning of paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section), overhead, and
de minimis
costs (within the meaning of paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section) are treated as amounts that do not facilitate the acquisition or creation of an intangible.
(ii)
Employee compensation
—(A)
In general.
The term
employee compensation
means compensation (including salary, bonuses and commissions) paid to an employee of the taxpayer. For purposes of this section, whether an individual is an employee is determined in accordance with the rules contained in section 3401(c) and the regulations thereunder.
(B)
Certain amounts treated as employee compensation.
For purposes of this section, a guaranteed payment to a partner in a partnership is treated as employee compensation. For purposes of this section, annual compensation paid to a director of a corporation is treated as employee compensation. For example, an amount paid to a director of a corporation for attendance at a regular meeting of the board of directors (or committee thereof) is treated as employee compensation for purposes of this section. However, an amount paid to a director for attendance at a special meeting of the board of directors (or committee thereof) is not treated as employee compensation. An amount paid to a person that is not an employee of the taxpayer (including
the employer of the individual who performs the services) is treated as employee compensation for purposes of this section only if the amount is paid for secretarial, clerical, or similar administrative support services. In the case of an affiliated group of corporations filing a consolidated Federal income tax return, a payment by one member of the group to a second member of the group for services performed by an employee of the second member is treated as employee compensation if the services provided by the employee are provided at a time during which both members are affiliated.
(iii)
De minimis costs
—(A)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(B) of this section, the term
de minimis costs
means amounts (other than employee compensation and overhead) paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a transaction if, in the aggregate, the amounts do not exceed $5,000 (or such greater amount as may be set forth in published guidance). If the amounts exceed $5,000 (or such greater amount as may be set forth in published guidance), none of the amounts are
de minimis
costs within the meaning of this paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A). For purposes of this paragraph (e)(4)(iii), an amount paid in the form of property is valued at its fair market value at the time of the payment. In determining the amount of transaction costs paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a transaction, a taxpayer generally must account for the specific costs paid with respect to each transaction. However, a taxpayer that reasonably expects to enter into at least 25 similar transactions during the taxable year may establish a pool of similar transactions for purposes of determining the amount of transaction costs paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing the transactions in the pool. Under this pooling method, the amount of transaction costs paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing each transaction included in the pool is equal to the average transaction costs paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing all transactions included in the pool. A taxpayer computes the average transaction costs paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing all transactions included in the pool by dividing the sum of all transaction costs paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing all transactions included in the pool by the number of transactions included in the pool.
See
paragraph (h) of this section for additional rules relating to pooling.
(B)
Treatment of commissions.
The term
de minimis costs
does not include commissions paid to facilitate the acquisition of an intangible described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section or to facilitate the creation, origination, entrance into, renewal or renegotiation of an intangible described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(iv)
Election to capitalize.
A taxpayer may elect to treat employee compensation, overhead, or
de minimis
costs paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a transaction as amounts that facilitate the transaction. The election is made separately for each transaction and applies to employee compensation, overhead, or
de minimis
costs, or to any combination thereof. For example, a taxpayer may elect to treat overhead and
de minimis
costs, but not employee compensation, as amounts that facilitate the transaction. A taxpayer makes the election by treating the amounts to which the election applies as amounts that facilitate the transaction in the taxpayer's timely filed original Federal income tax return (including extensions) for the taxable year during which the amounts are paid. In the case of an affiliated group of corporations filing a consolidated return, the election is made separately with respect to each member of the group, and not with respect to the group as a whole. In the case of an S corporation or partnership, the election is made by the S corporation or by the partnership, and not by the shareholders or partners. An election made under this paragraph (e)(4)(iv) is revocable with respect to each taxable year for which made only with the consent of the Commissioner.
(5)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this paragraph (e):

# Example 1. Costs to facilitate.
In December 2005, R corporation, a calendar year taxpayer, enters into negotiations with X corporation to lease commercial property from X for a period of 25 years. R pays A, its outside legal counsel, $4,000 in December 2005 for services rendered by A during December in assisting with negotiations with X. In January 2006, R and X finalize the terms of the lease and execute the lease agreement. R pays B, another of its outside legal counsel, $2,000 in January 2006 for services rendered by B during January in drafting the lease agreement. The agreement between R and X is an agreement providing R the right to use property, as described in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A) of this section. R's payments to its outside counsel are amounts paid to facilitate the creation of the agreement. As provided in paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, R must aggregate its transaction costs for purposes of determining whether the transaction costs are
de minimis.
Because R's aggregate transaction costs exceed $5,000, R's transaction costs are not
de minimis
costs within the meaning of paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section. Accordingly, R must capitalize the $4,000 paid to A and the $2,000 paid to B under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.

# Example 2. Costs to facilitate.
Partnership X leases its manufacturing equipment from Y corporation under a 10-year lease. During 2005, when the lease has a remaining term of 4 years, X enters into a written agreement with Z corporation, a competitor of Y, under which X agrees to lease its manufacturing equipment from Z, subject to the condition that X first successfully terminates its lease with Y. X pays Y $50,000 in exchange for Y's agreement to terminate the equipment lease. Under paragraph (e)(1)(ii), X's $50,000 payment does not facilitate the creation of the new lease with Z. In addition, X's $50,000 payment does not terminate an agreement described in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. Accordingly, X is not required to capitalize the $50,000 termination payment under this section.

# Example 3. Costs to facilitate.
W corporation enters into a lease agreement with X corporation under which W agrees to lease property to X for a period of 5 years. W pays its outside counsel $7,000 for legal services rendered in drafting the lease agreement and negotiating with X. The agreement between W and X is an agreement providing W the right to be compensated for the use of property, as described in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A) of this section. Under paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, W's payment to its outside counsel is an amount paid to facilitate the creation of that agreement. As provided by paragraph (e)(2) of this section, W must capitalize its $7,000 payment to outside counsel notwithstanding the fact that W made no payment described in paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section.

# Example 4. Costs to facilitate.
U corporation, which owns a majority of the common stock of T corporation, votes its controlling interest in favor of a perpetual extension of T's charter. M, a minority shareholder in T, votes against the extension. Under applicable state law, U is required to purchase the stock of T held by M. When U and M are unable to agree on the value of M's shares, U brings an action in state court to appraise the value of M's stock interest. U pays attorney, accountant and appraisal fees of $25,000 for services rendered in connection with the negotiation and litigation with M. Because U's attorney, accountant and appraisal costs help establish the purchase price of M's stock, U's $25,000 payment facilitates the acquisition of stock. Accordingly, U must capitalize the $25,000 payment under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.

# Example 5. Costs to facilitate.
For several years, H corporation has provided services to J corporation whenever requested by J. H wants to enter into a multiple-year contract with J that would give H the right to provide services to J. On June 10, 2004, H starts to prepare a bid to provide services to J and pays a consultant $15,000 to research potential competitors. On August 10, 2004, H raises the possibility of a multi-year contract with J. On October 10, 2004, H and J enter into a contract giving H the right to provide services to J for five years. During 2004, H pays $7,000 to travel to the city in which J's offices are located to continue providing services to J under their prior arrangement and pays $6,000 for travel to the city in which J's offices are located to further develop H's business relationship with J (for example, to introduce new employees, update J on current developments and take J's executives to dinner). H also pays $8,000 for travel costs to meet with J to discuss and negotiate the contract. Because the contract gives H the right to provide services to J, H must capitalize amounts paid to facilitate the creation of the contract. The $7,000 of travel expenses paid to provide services to J under their prior arrangement does not facilitate the creation of the contract and is not required to be capitalized, regardless of when the travel occurs. The $6,000 of travel expenses paid to further develop H's business relationship with J is paid in the process of pursuing the contract (and therefore must be capitalized) only to the extent the expenses relate to travel on or after June 10, 2004 (the date H begins to prepare a bid) and before October 11, 2004 (the date after H and J enter into the contract). The $8,000 of travel expenses paid to meet with J to discuss and negotiate the contract is paid in the process of pursuing the contact and must be capitalized. The $15,000 of consultant fees is paid to investigate the contract and also must be capitalized.

# Example 6. Costs that do not facilitate.
X corporation brings a legal action against Y corporation to recover lost profits resulting from Y's alleged infringement of X's copyright. Y does not challenge X's copyright, but argues that it did not infringe upon X's copyright. X pays its outside counsel $25,000 for legal services rendered in pursuing the suit against Y. Because X's title to its copyright is not in question, X's action against Y does not involve X's defense or perfection of title to intangible property. Thus, the amount paid to outside counsel does not facilitate the creation of an intangible described in paragraph (d)(9) of this section. Accordingly, X is not required to capitalize its $25,000 payment under this section.

# Example 7. De minimis rule.
W corporation, a commercial bank, acquires a portfolio containing 100 loans from Y corporation. As part of the acquisition, W pays an independent appraiser a fee of $10,000 to appraise the portfolio. The fee is an amount paid to facilitate W's acquisition of an intangible. The acquisition of the loan portfolio is a single transaction within the meaning of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Because the amount paid to facilitate the transaction exceeds $5,000, the amount is not
de minimis
as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section. Accordingly, W must capitalize the $10,000 fee under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.

# Example 8. Compensation and overhead.
P corporation, a commercial bank, maintains a loan acquisition department whose sole function is to acquire loans from other financial institutions. As provided in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, P is not required to capitalize any portion of the compensation paid to the employees in its loan acquisition department or any portion of its overhead allocable to the loan acquisition department.
(f)
12-month rule
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (f), a taxpayer is not required to capitalize under this section amounts paid to create (or to facilitate the creation of) any right or benefit for the taxpayer that does not extend beyond the earlier of—
(i) 12 months after the first date on which the taxpayer realizes the right or benefit; or
(ii) The end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the payment is made.
(2)
Duration of benefit for contract terminations.
For purposes of this paragraph (f), amounts paid to terminate a contract or other agreement described in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section prior to its expiration date (or amounts paid to facilitate such termination) create a benefit for the taxpayer that lasts for the unexpired term of the agreement immediately before the date of the termination. If the terms of a contract or other agreement described in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section permit the taxpayer to terminate the contract or agreement after a notice period, amounts paid by the taxpayer to terminate the contract or agreement before the end of the notice period create a benefit for the taxpayer that lasts for the amount of time by which the notice period is shortened.
(3)
Inapplicability to created financial interests and self-created amortizable section 197 intangibles.
Paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply to amounts paid to create (or facilitate the creation of) an intangible described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section (relating to amounts paid to create financial interests) or to amounts paid to create (or facilitate the creation of) an intangible that constitutes an amortizable section 197 intangible within the meaning of section 197(c).
(4)
Inapplicability to rights of indefinite duration.
Paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply to amounts paid to create (or facilitate the creation of) an intangible of indefinite duration. A right has an indefinite duration if it has no period of duration fixed by agreement or by law, or if it is not based on a period of time, such as a right attributable to an agreement to provide or receive a fixed amount of goods or services. For example, a license granted by a governmental agency that permits the taxpayer to operate a business conveys a right of indefinite duration if the license may be revoked only upon the taxpayer's violation of the terms of the license.
(5)
Rights subject to renewal
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the duration of a right includes any renewal period if all of the facts and circumstances in existence during the taxable year in which the right is created indicate a reasonable expectancy of renewal.
(ii)
Reasonable expectancy of renewal.
The following factors are significant in determining whether there exists a reasonable expectancy of renewal:
(A)
Renewal history.
The fact that similar rights are historically renewed
is evidence of a reasonable expectancy of renewal. On the other hand, the fact that similar rights are rarely renewed is evidence of a lack of a reasonable expectancy of renewal. Where the taxpayer has no experience with similar rights, or where the taxpayer holds similar rights only occasionally, this factor is less indicative of a reasonable expectancy of renewal.
(B)
Economics of the transaction.
The fact that renewal is necessary for the taxpayer to earn back its investment in the right is evidence of a reasonable expectancy of renewal. For example, if a taxpayer pays $14,000 to enter into a renewable contract with an initial 9-month term that is expected to generate income to the taxpayer of $1,000 per month, the fact that renewal is necessary for the taxpayer to earn back its $14,000 payment is evidence of a reasonable expectancy of renewal.
(C)
Likelihood of renewal by other party.
Evidence that indicates a likelihood of renewal by the other party to a right, such as a bargain renewal option or similar arrangement, is evidence of a reasonable expectancy of renewal. However, the mere fact that the other party will have the opportunity to renew on the same terms as are available to others is not evidence of a reasonable expectancy of renewal.
(D)
Terms of renewal.
The fact that material terms of the right are subject to renegotiation at the end of the initial term is evidence of a lack of a reasonable expectancy of renewal. For example, if the parties to an agreement must renegotiate price or amount, the renegotiation requirement is evidence of a lack of a reasonable expectancy of renewal.
(E)
Terminations.
The fact that similar rights are typically terminated prior to renewal is evidence of a lack of a reasonably expectancy of renewal.
(iii)
Safe harbor pooling method.
In lieu of applying the reasonable expectancy of renewal test described in paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section to each separate right created during a taxable year, a taxpayer that reasonably expects to enter into at least 25 similar rights during the taxable year may establish a pool of similar rights for which the initial term does not extend beyond the period prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section and may elect to apply the reasonable expectancy of renewal test to that pool.
See
paragraph (h) of this section for additional rules relating to pooling. The application of paragraph (f)(1) of this section to each pool is determined in the following manner:
(A) All amounts (except
de minimis
costs described in paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section) paid to create the rights included in the pool and all amounts paid to facilitate the creation of the rights included in the pool are aggregated.
(B) If less than 20 percent of the rights in the pool are reasonably expected to be renewed beyond the period prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, all rights in the pool are treated as having a duration that does not extend beyond the period prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, and the taxpayer is not required to capitalize under this section any portion of the aggregate amount described in paragraph (f)(5)(iii)(A) of this section.
(C) If more than 80 percent of the rights in the pool are reasonably expected to be renewed beyond the period prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, all rights in the pool are treated as having a duration that extends beyond the period prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, and the taxpayer is required to capitalize under this section the aggregate amount described in paragraph (f)(5)(iii)(A) of this section.
(D) If 20 percent or more, but 80 percent or less, of the rights in the pool are reasonably expected to be renewed beyond the period prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the aggregate amount described in paragraph (f)(5)(iii)(A) of this section is multiplied by the percentage of the rights in the pool that are reasonably expected to be renewed beyond the period prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section and the taxpayer must capitalize the resulting amount under this section by treating such amount as creating a separate intangible. The amount determined by multiplying the aggregate amount described in paragraph (f)(5)(iii)(A) of this section by the percentage of rights in the pool that
are not reasonably expected to be renewed beyond the period prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section is not required to be capitalized under this section.
(6)
Coordination with section 461.
In the case of a taxpayer using an accrual method of accounting, the rules of this paragraph (f) do not affect the determination of whether a liability is incurred during the taxable year, including the determination of whether economic performance has occurred with respect to the liability. See § 1.461-4 for rules relating to economic performance.
(7)
Election to capitalize.
A taxpayer may elect not to apply the rule contained in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. An election made under this paragraph (f)(7) applies to all similar transactions during the taxable year to which paragraph (f)(1) of this section would apply (but for the election under this paragraph (f)(7)). For example, a taxpayer may elect under this paragraph (f)(7) to capitalize its costs of prepaying insurance contracts for 12 months, but may continue to apply the rule in paragraph (f)(1) to its costs of entering into non-renewable, 12-month service contracts. A taxpayer makes the election by treating the amounts as capital expenditures in its timely filed original federal income tax return (including extensions) for the taxable year during which the amounts are paid. In the case of an affiliated group of corporations filing a consolidated return, the election is made separately with respect to each member of the group, and not with respect to the group as a whole. In the case of an S corporation or partnership, the election is made by the S corporation or by the partnership, and not by the shareholders or partners. An election made under this paragraph (f)(7) is revocable with respect to each taxable year for which made only with the consent of the Commissioner.
(8)
Examples.
The rules of this paragraph (f) are illustrated by the following examples, in which it is assumed (unless otherwise stated) that the taxpayer is a calendar year, accrual method taxpayer that does not have a short taxable year in any taxable year and has not made an election under paragraph (f)(7) of this section:

# Example 1. Prepaid expenses.
On December 1, 2005, N corporation pays a $10,000 insurance premium to obtain a property insurance policy (with no cash value) with a 1-year term that begins on February 1, 2006. The amount paid by N is a prepaid expense described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section and not paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Because the right or benefit attributable to the $10,000 payment extends beyond the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the payment is made, the 12-month rule provided by this paragraph (f) does not apply. N must capitalize the $10,000 payment.

# Example 2. Prepaid expenses.
(i) Assume the same facts as in
Example 1,
except that the policy has a term beginning on December 15, 2005. The 12-month rule of this paragraph (f) applies to the $10,000 payment because the right or benefit attributable to the payment neither extends more than 12 months beyond December 15, 2005 (the first date the benefit is realized by the taxpayer) nor beyond the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the payment is made. Accordingly, N is not required to capitalize the $10,000 payment.
(ii) Alternatively, assume N capitalizes prepaid expenses for financial accounting and reporting purposes and elects under paragraph (f)(7) of this section not to apply the 12-month rule contained in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. N must capitalize the $10,000 payment for Federal income tax purposes.

# Example 3. Financial interests.
On October 1, 2005, X corporation makes a 9-month loan to B in the principal amount of $250,000. The principal amount of the loan to B constitutes an amount paid to create or originate a financial interest under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(B) of this section. The 9-month term of the loan does not extend beyond the period prescribed by paragraph (f)(1) of this section. However, as provided by paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the rules of this paragraph (f) do not apply to intangibles described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Accordingly, X must capitalize the $250,000 loan amount.

# Example 4. Financial interests.
X corporation owns all of the outstanding stock of Z corporation. On December 1, 2005, Y corporation pays X $1,000,000 in exchange for X's grant of a 9-month call option to Y permitting Y to purchase all of the outstanding stock of Z. Y's payment to X constitutes an amount paid to create or originate an option with X under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C)(
7
) of this section. The 9-month term of the option does not extend beyond the period prescribed by paragraph (f)(1) of this section. However, as provided by paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the
rules of this paragraph (f) do not apply to intangibles described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Accordingly, Y must capitalize the $1,000,000 payment.

# Example 5. License.
(i) On July 1, 2005, R corporation pays $10,000 to state X to obtain a license to operate a business in state X for a period of 5 years. The terms of the license require R to pay state X an annual fee of $500 due on July 1, 2005, and each of the succeeding four years. R pays the $500 fee on July 1 as required by the license.
(ii) R's payment of $10,000 is an amount paid to a governmental agency for a license granted by that agency to which paragraph (d)(5) of this section applies. Because R's payment creates rights or benefits for R that extend beyond 12 months after the first date on which R realizes the rights or benefits attributable to the payment and beyond the end of 2006 (the taxable year following the taxable year in which the payment is made), the rules of this paragraph (f) do not apply to R's payment. Accordingly, R must capitalize the $10,000 payment.
(iii) R's payment of each $500 annual fee is a prepaid expense described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. R is not required to capitalize the $500 fee in each taxable year. The rules of this paragraph (f) apply to each such payment because each payment provides a right or benefit to R that does not extend beyond 12 months after the first date on which R realizes the rights or benefits attributable to the payment and does not extend beyond the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the payment is made.

# Example 6. Lease.
On December 1, 2005, W corporation enters into a lease agreement with X corporation under which W agrees to lease property to X for a period of 9 months, beginning on December 1, 2005. W pays its outside counsel $7,000 for legal services rendered in drafting the lease agreement and negotiating with X. The agreement between W and X is an agreement providing W the right to be compensated for the use of property, as described in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A) of this section. W's $7,000 payment to its outside counsel is an amount paid to facilitate W's creation of the lease as described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. The 12-month rule of this paragraph (f) applies to the $7,000 payment because the right or benefit that the $7,000 payment facilitates the creation of neither extends more than 12 months beyond December 1, 2005 (the first date the benefit is realized by the taxpayer) nor beyond the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the payment is made. Accordingly, W is not required to capitalize its payment to its outside counsel.

# Example 7. Certain contract terminations.
V corporation owns real property that it has leased to A for a period of 15 years. When the lease has a remaining unexpired term of 5 years, V and A agree to terminate the lease, enabling V to use the property in its trade or business. V pays A $100,000 in exchange for A's agreement to terminate the lease. V's payment to A to terminate the lease is described in paragraph (d)(7)(i)(A) of this section. Under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, V's payment creates a benefit for V with a duration of 5 years, the remaining unexpired term of the lease as of the date of the termination. Because the benefit attributable to the expenditure extends beyond 12 months after the first date on which V realizes the rights or benefits attributable to the payment and beyond the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the payment is made, the rules of this paragraph (f) do not apply to the payment. V must capitalize the $100,000 payment.

# Example 8. Certain contract terminations.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 7,
except that the lease is terminated when it has a remaining unexpired term of 10 months. Under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, V's payment creates a benefit for V with a duration of 10 months. The 12-month rule of this paragraph (f) applies to the payment because the benefit attributable to the payment neither extends more than 12 months beyond the date of termination (the first date the benefit is realized by V) nor beyond the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the payment is made. Accordingly, V is not required to capitalize the $100,000 payment.

# Example 9. Certain contract terminations.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 7,
except that either party can terminate the lease upon 12 months notice. When the lease has a remaining unexpired term of 5 years, V wants to terminate the lease, however, V does not want to wait another 12 months. V pays A $50,000 for the ability to terminate the lease with one month's notice. V's payment to A to terminate the lease is described in paragraph (d)(7)(i)(A) of this section. Under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, V's payment creates a benefit for V with a duration of 11 months, the time by which the notice period is shortened. The 12-month rule of this paragraph (f) applies to V's $50,000 payment because the benefit attributable to the payment neither extends more than 12 months beyond the date of termination (the first date the benefit is realized by V) nor beyond the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the payment is made. Accordingly, V is not required to capitalize the $50,000 payment.

# Example 10. Coordination with section 461.
(i) U corporation leases office space from W corporation at a monthly rental rate of $2,000. On August 1, 2005, U prepays its office rent expense for the first six months of 2006 in the amount of $12,000. For purposes of this example, it is assumed that the recurring item exception provided by § 1.461-5 does not apply and that the lease between W and U is not a
section 467 rental agreement as defined in section 467(d).
(ii) Under § 1.461-4(d)(3), U's prepayment of rent is a payment for the use of property by U for which economic performance occurs ratably over the period of time U is entitled to use the property. Accordingly, because economic performance with respect to U's prepayment of rent does not occur until 2006, U's prepaid rent is not incurred in 2005 and therefore is not properly taken into account through capitalization, deduction, or otherwise in 2005. Thus, the rules of this paragraph (f) do not apply to U's prepayment of its rent.
(iii) Alternatively, assume that U uses the cash method of accounting and the economic performance rules in § 1.461-4 therefore do not apply to U. The 12-month rule of this paragraph (f) applies to the $12,000 payment because the rights or benefits attributable to U's prepayment of its rent do not extend beyond December 31, 2006. Accordingly, U is not required to capitalize its prepaid rent.

# Example 11. Coordination with section 461.
N corporation pays R corporation, an advertising and marketing firm, $40,000 on August 1, 2005, for advertising and marketing services to be provided to N throughout calendar year 2006. For purposes of this example, it is assumed that the recurring item exception provided by § 1.461-5 does not apply. Under § 1.461-4(d)(2), N's payment arises out of the provision of services to N by R for which economic performance occurs as the services are provided. Accordingly, because economic performance with respect to N's prepaid advertising expense does not occur until 2006, N's prepaid advertising expense is not incurred in 2005 and therefore is not properly taken into account through capitalization, deduction, or otherwise in 2005. Thus, the rules of this paragraph (f) do not apply to N's payment.
(g)
Treatment of capitalized costs
—(1)
In general.
An amount required to be capitalized by this section is not currently deductible under section 162. Instead, the amount generally is added to the basis of the intangible acquired or created. See section 1012.
(2)
Financial instruments.
In the case of a financial instrument described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) or (d)(2)(i)(C) of this section, notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1) of this section, if under other provisions of law the amount required to be capitalized is not required to be added to the basis of the intangible acquired or created, then the other provisions of law will govern the tax treatment of the amount.
(h)
Special rules applicable to pooling
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided, the rules of this paragraph (h) apply to the pooling methods described in paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section (relating to
de minimis
rules applicable to certain contract rights), paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section (relating to
de minimis
rules applicable to transaction costs), and paragraph (f)(5)(iii) of this section (relating to the application of the 12-month rule to renewable rights).
(2)
Method of accounting.
A pooling method authorized by this section constitutes a method of accounting for purposes of section 446. A taxpayer that adopts or changes to a pooling method authorized by this section must use the method for the year of adoption and for all subsequent taxable years during which the taxpayer qualifies to use the pooling method unless a change to another method is required by the Commissioner in order to clearly reflect income, or unless permission to change to another method is granted by the Commissioner as provided in § 1.446-1(e).
(3)
Adopting or changing to a pooling method.
A taxpayer adopts (or changes to) a pooling method authorized by this section for any taxable year by establishing one or more pools for the taxable year in accordance with the rules governing the particular pooling method and the rules prescribed by this paragraph (h), and by using the pooling method to compute its taxable income for the year of adoption (or change).
(4)
Definition of pool.
A taxpayer may use any reasonable method of defining a pool of similar transactions, agreements or rights, including a method based on the type of customer or the type of product or service provided under a contract. However, a taxpayer that pools similar transactions, agreements or rights must include in the pool all similar transactions, agreements or rights created during the taxable year. For purposes of the pooling methods described in paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section (relating to
de minimis
rules applicable to certain contract rights) and paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section (relating to
de minimis
rules applicable to transaction costs), an agreement (or a transaction) is treated as not similar to
other agreements (or transactions) included in the pool if the amount at issue with respect to that agreement (or transaction) is reasonably expected to differ significantly from the average amount at issue with respect to the other agreements (or transactions) properly included in the pool.
(5)
Consistency requirement.
A taxpayer that uses the pooling method described in paragraph (f)(5)(iii) of this section for purposes of applying the 12-month rule to a right or benefit—
(i) Must use the pooling methods described in paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section (relating to
de minimis
rules applicable to certain contract rights) and paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section (relating to
de minimis
rules applicable to transaction costs) for purposes of determining the amount paid to create, or facilitate the creation of, the right or benefit; and
(ii) Must use the same pool for purposes of paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section and paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section as is used for purposes of paragraph (f)(5)(iii) of this section.
(6)
Additional guidance pertaining to pooling.
The Internal Revenue Service may publish guidance in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) prescribing additional rules for applying the pooling methods authorized by this section to specific industries or to specific types of transactions.
(7)
Example.
The following example illustrates the rules of this paragraph (h):

# Example. Pooling.
(i) In the course of its business, W corporation enters into 3-year non-cancelable contracts that provide W the right to provide services to its customers. W generally pays certain amounts in the process of pursuing an agreement with a customer, including amounts paid to credit reporting agencies to verify the credit history of the potential customer and commissions paid to the independent sales agent who secures the agreement with the customer. In the case of agreements that W enters into with customers who are individuals, the agreements contain substantially similar terms and conditions and W typically pays between $100 and $200 in the process of pursuing each transaction. During 2005, W enters into agreements with 300 individuals. Also during 2005, W enters into an agreement with X corporation containing terms and conditions that are substantially similar to those contained in the agreements W enters into with its customers who are individuals. W pays certain amounts in the process of pursuing the agreement with X that W would not typically incur in the process of pursuing an agreement with its customers who are individuals. For example, W pays amounts to prepare and submit a bid for the agreement with X and amounts to travel to X's headquarters to make a sales presentation to X's management. In the aggregate, W pays $11,000 in the process of obtaining the agreement with X.
(ii) The agreements between W and its customers are agreements providing W the right to provide services, as described in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(B) of this section. Under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, W must capitalize transaction costs paid to facilitate the creation of these agreements. Because W enters into at least 25 similar transactions during 2005, W may pool its transactions for purposes of determining whether its transaction costs are
de minimis
within the meaning of paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section. W adopts a pooling method by establishing one or more pools of similar transactions and by using the pooling method to compute its taxable income beginning in its 2005 taxable year. If W adopts a pooling method, W must include all similar transactions in the pool. Under paragraph (h)(4) of this section, the transaction with X is not similar to the transactions W enters into with its customers who are individuals. While the agreement with X contains terms and conditions that are substantially similar to those contained in the agreements W enters into with its customers who are individuals, the transaction costs paid in the process of pursuing the agreement with X are reasonably expected to differ significantly from the average transaction costs attributable to transactions with its customers who are individuals. Accordingly, W may not include the transaction with X in the pool of transactions with customers who are individuals.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Application to accrual method taxpayers.
For purposes of this section, the terms
amount paid
and
payment
mean, in the case of a taxpayer using an accrual method of accounting, a liability incurred (within the meaning of § 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)). A liability may not be taken into account under this section prior to the taxable year during which the liability is incurred.
(k)
Treatment of related parties and indirect payments.
For purposes of this section, references to a party other than the taxpayer include persons related to that party and persons acting
for or on behalf of that party (including persons to whom the taxpayer becomes obligated as a result of assuming a liability of that party). For this purpose, persons are related only if their relationship is described in section 267(b) or 707(b) or they are engaged in trades or businesses under common control within the meaning of section 41(f)(1). References to an amount paid to or by a party include an amount paid on behalf of that party.
(l)
Examples.
The rules of this section are illustrated by the following examples in which it is assumed that the Internal Revenue Service has not published guidance that requires capitalization under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section (relating to amounts paid to create or enhance a future benefit that is identified in published guidance as an intangible for which capitalization is required):

# Example 1. License granted by a governmental unit.
(i) X corporation pays $25,000 to state R to obtain a license to sell alcoholic beverages in its restaurant. The license is valid indefinitely, provided X complies with all applicable laws regarding the sale of alcoholic beverages in state R. X pays its outside counsel $4,000 for legal services rendered in preparing the license application and otherwise representing X during the licensing process. In addition, X determines that $2,000 of salaries paid to its employees is allocable to services rendered by the employees in obtaining the license.
(ii) X's payment of $25,000 is an amount paid to a governmental unit to obtain a license granted by that agency, as described in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section. The right has an indefinite duration and constitutes an amortizable section 197 intangible. Accordingly, as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section (relating to the 12-month rule) do not apply to X's payment. X must capitalize its $25,000 payment to obtain the license from state R.
(iii) As provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, X is not required to capitalize employee compensation because such amounts are treated as amounts that do not facilitate the acquisition or creation of an intangible. Thus, X is not required to capitalize the $2,000 of employee compensation allocable to the transaction.
(iv) X's payment of $4,000 to its outside counsel is an amount paid to facilitate the creation of an intangible, as described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. Because X's transaction costs do not exceed $5,000, X's transaction costs are
de minimis
within the meaning of paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section. Accordingly, X is not required to capitalize the $4,000 payment to its outside counsel under this section.

# Example 2. Franchise agreement.
(i) R corporation is a franchisor of income tax return preparation outlets. V corporation negotiates with R to obtain the right to operate an income tax return preparation outlet under a franchise from R. V pays an initial $100,000 franchise fee to R in exchange for the franchise agreement. In addition, V pays its outside counsel $4,000 to represent V during the negotiations with R. V also pays $2,000 to an industry consultant to advise V during the negotiations with R.
(ii) Under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A) of this section, V's payment of $100,000 is an amount paid to another party to enter into an agreement with that party providing V the right to use tangible or intangible property. Accordingly, V must capitalize its $100,000 payment to R. The franchise agreement is a self-created amortizable section 197 intangible within the meaning of section 197(c). Accordingly, as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the 12-month rule contained in paragraph (f)(1) of this section does not apply.
(iii) V's payment of $4,000 to its outside counsel and $2,000 to the industry consultant are amounts paid to facilitate the creation of an intangible, as described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section. Because V's aggregate transaction costs exceed $5,000, V's transaction costs are not
de minimis
within the meaning of paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section. Accordingly, V must capitalize the $4,000 payment to its outside counsel and the $2,000 payment to the industry consultant under this section into the basis of the franchise, as provided in paragraph (g) of this section.

# Example 3. Covenant not to compete.
(i) On December 1, 2005, N corporation, a calendar year taxpayer, enters into a covenant not to compete with B, a key employee that is leaving the employ of N. The covenant not to compete is not entered into in connection with the acquisition of an interest in a trade or business. The covenant not to compete prohibits B from competing with N for a period of 9 months, beginning December 1, 2005. N pays B $25,000 in full consideration for B's agreement not to compete. In addition, N pays its outside counsel $6,000 to facilitate the creation of the covenant not to compete with B. N does not have a short taxable year in 2005 or 2006.
(ii) Under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(C) of this section, N's payment of $25,000 is an amount paid to another party to induce that party to enter into a covenant not to compete with N. However, because the covenant not to compete has a duration that does not extend beyond 12 months after the first date on which N realizes the rights attributable to its payment (
i.e.,
December 1, 2005) or beyond the
end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which payment is made, the 12-month rule contained in paragraph (f)(1) of this section applies. Accordingly, N is not required to capitalize its $25,000 payment to B or its $6,000 payment to facilitate the creation of the covenant not to compete.

# Example 4. Demand-side management.
(i) X corporation, a public utility engaged in generating and distributing electrical energy, provides programs to its customers to promote energy conservation and energy efficiency. These programs are aimed at reducing electrical costs to X's customers, building goodwill with X's customers, and reducing X's future operating and capital costs. X provides these programs without obligating any of its customers participating in the programs to purchase power from X in the future. Under these programs, X pays a consultant to help industrial customers design energy-efficient manufacturing processes, to conduct “energy efficiency audits” that serve to identify for customers inefficiencies in their energy usage patterns, and to provide cash allowances to encourage residential customers to replace existing appliances with more energy efficient appliances.
(ii) The amounts paid by X to the consultant are not amounts to acquire or create an intangible under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or to facilitate such an acquisition or creation. In addition, the amounts do not create a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Accordingly, the amounts paid to the consultant are not required to be capitalized under this section. While the amounts may serve to reduce future operating and capital costs and create goodwill with customers, these benefits, without more, are not intangibles for which capitalization is required under this section.

# Example 5. Business process re-engineering.
(i) V corporation manufactures its products using a batch production system. Under this system, V continuously produces component parts of its various products and stockpiles these parts until they are needed in V's final assembly line. Finished goods are stockpiled awaiting orders from customers. V discovers that this process ties up significant amounts of V's capital in work-in-process and finished goods inventories. V hires B, a consultant, to advise V on improving the efficiency of its manufacturing operations. B recommends a complete re-engineering of V's manufacturing process to a process known as just-in-time manufacturing. Just-in-time manufacturing involves reconfiguring a manufacturing plant to a configuration of “cells” where each team in a cell performs the entire manufacturing process for a particular customer order, thus reducing inventory stockpiles.
(ii) V incurred three categories of costs to convert its manufacturing process to a just-in-time system. First, V paid B, a consultant, $250,000 in professional fees to implement the conversion of V's plant to a just-in-time system. Second, V paid C, a contractor, $100,000 to relocate and reconfigure V's manufacturing equipment from an assembly line layout to a configuration of cells. Third, V paid D, a consultant, $50,000 to train V's employees in the just-in-time manufacturing process.
(iii) The amounts paid by V to B, C, and D are not amounts to acquire or create an intangible under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or to facilitate such an acquisition or creation. In addition, the amounts do not create a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Accordingly, the amounts paid to B, C, and D are not required to be capitalized under this section. While the amounts produce long term benefits to V in the form of reduced inventory stockpiles, improved product quality, and increased efficiency, these benefits, without more, are not intangibles for which capitalization is required under this section.

# Example 6. Defense of business reputation.
(i) X, an investment adviser, serves as the fund manager of a money market investment fund. X, like its competitors in the industry, strives to maintain a constant net asset value for its money market fund of $1.00 per share. During 2005, in the course of managing the fund assets, X incorrectly predicts the direction of market interest rates, resulting in significant investment losses to the fund. Due to these significant losses, X is faced with the prospect of reporting a net asset value that is less than $1.00 per share. X is not aware of any investment adviser in its industry that has ever reported a net asset value for its money market fund of less than $1.00 per share. X is concerned that reporting a net asset value of less than $1.00 per share will significantly harm its reputation as an investment adviser, and could lead to litigation by shareholders. X decides to contribute $2,000,000 to the fund in order to raise the net asset value of the fund to $1.00 per share. This contribution is not a loan to the fund and does not give X any ownership interest in the fund.
(ii) The $2,000,000 contribution is not an amount paid to acquire or create an intangible under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or to facilitate such an acquisition or creation. In addition, the amount does not create a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Accordingly, the amount contributed to the fund is not required to be capitalized under this section. While the amount serves to protect the business reputation of the taxpayer and may protect the taxpayer from litigation by shareholders,
these benefits, without more, are not intangibles for which capitalization is required under this section.

# Example 7. Product launch costs.
(i) R corporation, a manufacturer of pharmaceutical products, is required by law to obtain regulatory approval before selling its products. While awaiting regulatory approval on Product A, R pays to develop and implement a marketing strategy and an advertising campaign to raise consumer awareness of the purported need for Product A. R also pays to train health care professionals and other distributors in the proper use of Product A.
(ii) The amounts paid by R are not amounts paid to acquire or create an intangible under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or to facilitate such an acquisition or creation. In addition, the amounts do not create a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Accordingly, R is not required to capitalize these amounts under this section. While the amounts may benefit R by creating consumer demand for Product A and increasing awareness of Product A among distributors, these benefits, without more, are not intangibles for which capitalization is required under this section.

# Example 8. Stocklifting costs.
(i) N corporation is a wholesale distributor of Brand A aftermarket automobile replacement parts. In an effort to induce a retail automobile parts supply store to stock only Brand A parts, N offers to replace all of the store's inventory of other branded parts with Brand A parts, and to credit the store for its cost of other branded parts. The store is under no obligation to continue stocking Brand A parts or to purchase a minimum volume of Brand A parts from N in the future.
(ii) The amount paid by N as a credit to the store for the cost of other branded parts is not an amount paid to acquire or create an intangible under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or to facilitate such an acquisition or creation. In addition, the amount does not create a separate and distinct intangible asset within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Accordingly, N is not required to capitalize the amount under this section. While the amount may create a hope or expectation by N that the store will continue to stock Brand A parts, this benefit, without more, is not an intangible for which capitalization is required under this section.
(iii) Alternatively, assume that N agrees to credit the store for its cost of other branded parts in exchange for the store's agreement to purchase all of its inventory requirements for such parts from N for a period of at least 3 years. The amount paid by N as a credit to the store for the cost of other branded parts is an amount paid to induce the store to enter into an agreement providing R the right to provide property. Accordingly, R must capitalize its payment.

# Example 9. Package design costs.
(i) Z corporation manufactures and markets personal care products. Z pays $100,000 to a consultant to develop a package design for Z's newest product, Product A. Z also pays a fee to a government agency to obtain trademark and copyright protection on certain elements of the package design. Z pays its outside legal counsel $10,000 for services rendered in preparing and filing the trademark and copyright applications and for other services rendered in securing the trademark and copyright protection.
(ii) The $100,000 paid by Z to the consultant for development of the package design is not an amount paid to acquire or create an intangible under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or to facilitate such an acquisition or creation. In addition, as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section, amounts paid to develop a package design are treated as amounts that do not create a separate and distinct intangible asset. Accordingly, Z is not required to capitalize the $100,000 payment under this section.
(iii) The amounts paid by Z to the government agency to obtain trademark and copyright protection are amounts paid to a government agency for a right granted by that agency. Accordingly, Z must capitalize the payment. In addition, the $10,000 paid by Z to its outside counsel is an amount paid to facilitate the creation of the trademark and copyright. Because the aggregate amounts paid to facilitate the transaction exceed $5,000, the amounts are not
de minimis
as defined in paragraph (e)(4)(iii)(A) of this section. Accordingly, Z must capitalize the $10,000 payment to its outside counsel under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.
(iv) Alternatively, assume that Z acquires an existing package design for Product A as part of an acquisition of a trade or business that constitutes an applicable asset acquisition within the meaning of section 1060(c). Assume further that $100,000 of the consideration paid by N in the acquisition is properly allocable to the package design for Product A. Under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, Z must capitalize the $100,000 payment.

# Example 10. Contract to provide services.
(i) Q corporation, a financial planning firm, provides financial advisory services on a fee-only basis. During 2005, Q and several other financial planning firms submit separate bids to R corporation for a contract to become one of three providers of financial advisory services to R's employees. Q pays $2,000 to a printing company to develop and produce materials for its sales presentation to R's management. Q also pays $6,000 to travel to R's corporate headquarters to make the sales presentation, and $20,000 of salaries to its employees for services performed in preparing the bid and making the presentation to R's management. Q's bid is successful and Q enters into an agreement with R in
2005 under which Q agrees to provide financial advisory services to R's employees, and R agrees to pay Q's fee on behalf of each employee who chooses to utilize such services. R enters into similar agreements with two other financial planning firms, and R's employees may choose to use the services of any one of the three firms. Based on its past experience, Q reasonably expects to provide services to at least 5 percent of R's employees.
(ii) Q's agreement with R is not an agreement providing Q the right to provide services, as described in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(B) of this section. Under paragraph (d)(6)(iv) the agreement places no obligation on another person to request or pay for Q's services. Accordingly, Q is not required to capitalize any of the amounts paid in the process of pursuing the agreement with R.

# Example 11. Mutual fund distributor.
(i) D incurs costs to enter into a distribution agreement with M, a mutual fund. The initial term of the distribution agreement is two years, and afterwards must be approved annually by M. The distribution agreement can be terminated by either party on 60 days notice. Although distribution agreements are rarely terminated in the mutual fund industry, M is not economically compelled to continue D's distribution agreement. Under the distribution agreement, D has the exclusive right to sell shares of M and agrees to use its best efforts to solicit orders for the sale of shares of M. D sells shares in M directly to the general public as well as through brokers. When an investor places an order for M shares with a broker, D pays the broker a commission for selling the shares to the investor. Under the distribution agreement, D receives compensation from M in the form of 12b-1 fees (which equal a percentage of M's net asset value attributable to investors that have held their shares for up to 6 years) and contingent deferred sales charges (which are paid if the investor redeems the purchased shares within 6 years).
(ii) The distribution agreement is not an agreement providing D with the right to provide services, as described in paragraph (d)(6)(i)(B) of this section, because the distribution agreement can be terminated by M at will upon 60 days notice and M is not economically compelled to continue the distribution agreement. Accordingly, D is not required to capitalize the costs of creating (or facilitating the creation of) the distribution agreement under paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) or (v) of this section. In addition, as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, amounts paid to create an agreement are treated as amounts that do not create a separate and distinct intangible asset. Accordingly, D also is not required to capitalize the costs of creating (or facilitating the creation of) the distribution agreement under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) or (v) of this section.
(iii) Under paragraph (b)(3)(iii), the broker commissions paid by D in performing services under the distribution agreement do not create (or facilitate the creation of) a separate and distinct intangible asset. In addition, the broker commissions do not create an intangible described in paragraph (d) of this section. Accordingly, D is not required to capitalize the broker commissions under this section.
(m)
Amortization.
For rules relating to amortization of certain intangibles, see § 1.167(a)-3.
(n)
Intangible interests in land.
[Reserved].
(o)
Effective date.
This section applies to amounts paid or incurred on or after December 31, 2003.
(p)
Accounting method changes
—(1)
In general.
A taxpayer seeking to change a method of accounting to comply with this section must secure the consent of the Commissioner in accordance with the requirements of § 1.446-1(e). For the taxpayer's first taxable year ending on or after December 31, 2003, the taxpayer is granted the consent of the Commissioner to change its method of accounting to comply with this section, provided the taxpayer follows the administrative procedures issued under § 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) for obtaining the Commissioner's automatic consent to a change in accounting method (for further guidance, for example, see Rev. Proc. 2002-9 (2002-1 C.B. 327) and § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter).
(2)
Scope limitations.
Any limitations on obtaining the automatic consent of the Commissioner do not apply to a taxpayer seeking to change to a method of accounting to comply with this section for its first taxable year ending on or after December 31, 2003.
(3)
Section 481(a) adjustment.
With the exception of a change to a pooling method authorized by this section, the section 481(a) adjustment for a change in method of accounting to comply with this section for a taxpayer's first taxable year ending on or after December 31, 2003 is determined by taking into account only amounts paid or incurred in taxable years ending on or after January 24, 2002. A taxpayer seeking to change to a pooling method authorized by this section on or after the effective date of these regulations
must change to the method using a cut-off method.
[T.D. 9107, 69 FR 446, Jan. 5, 2004]
§ 1.263(a)-5
Amounts paid or incurred to facilitate an acquisition of a trade or business, a change in the capital structure of a business entity, and certain other transactions.
(a)
General rule.
A taxpayer must capitalize an amount paid to facilitate (within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section) each of the following transactions, without regard to whether the transaction is comprised of a single step or a series of steps carried out as part of a single plan and without regard to whether gain or loss is recognized in the transaction:
(1) An acquisition of assets that constitute a trade or business (whether the taxpayer is the acquirer in the acquisition or the target of the acquisition).
(2) An acquisition by the taxpayer of an ownership interest in a business entity if, immediately after the acquisition, the taxpayer and the business entity are related within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b) (
see
§ 1.263(a)-4 for rules requiring capitalization of amounts paid by the taxpayer to acquire an ownership interest in a business entity, or to facilitate the acquisition of an ownership interest in a business entity, where the taxpayer and the business entity are not related within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b) immediately after the acquisition).
(3) An acquisition of an ownership interest in the taxpayer (other than an acquisition by the taxpayer of an ownership interest in the taxpayer, whether by redemption or otherwise).
(4) A restructuring, recapitalization, or reorganization of the capital structure of a business entity (including reorganizations described in section 368 and distributions of stock by the taxpayer as described in section 355).
(5) A transfer described in section 351 or section 721 (whether the taxpayer is the transferor or transferee).
(6) A formation or organization of a disregarded entity.
(7) An acquisition of capital.
(8) A stock issuance.
(9) A borrowing. For purposes of this section, a borrowing means any issuance of debt, including an issuance of debt in an acquisition of capital or in a recapitalization. A borrowing also includes debt issued in a debt for debt exchange under § 1.1001-3.
(10) Writing an option.
(b)
Scope of facilitate
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, an amount is paid to facilitate a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section if the amount is paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing the transaction. Whether an amount is paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing the transaction is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances. In determining whether an amount is paid to facilitate a transaction, the fact that the amount would (or would not) have been paid but for the transaction is relevant, but is not determinative. An amount paid to determine the value or price of a transaction is an amount paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing the transaction. An amount paid to another party in exchange for tangible or intangible property is not an amount paid to facilitate the exchange. For example, the purchase price paid to the target of an asset acquisition in exchange for its assets is not an amount paid to facilitate the acquisition. Similarly, the purchase price paid by an acquirer to the target's shareholders in exchange for their stock in a stock acquisition is not an amount paid to facilitate the acquisition of the stock. See § 1.263(a)-1, § 1.263(a)-2, and § 1.263(a)-4 for rules requiring capitalization of the purchase price paid to acquire property.
(2)
Ordering rules.
An amount paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing both a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section and an acquisition or creation of an intangible described in § 1.263(a)-4 is subject to the rules contained in this section, and not to the rules contained in § 1.263(a)-4. In addition, an amount required to be capitalized by § 1.263(a)-1, § 1.263(a)-2, or § 1.263(a)-4 does not facilitate a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Special rules for certain costs
—(1)
Borrowing costs.
An amount paid to facilitate a borrowing does not facilitate
another transaction (other than the borrowing) described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Costs of asset sales.
An amount paid by a taxpayer to facilitate a sale of its assets does not facilitate another transaction (other than the sale) described in paragraph (a) of this section. For example, where a target corporation, in preparation for a merger with an acquiring corporation, sells assets that are not desired by the acquiring corporation, amounts paid to facilitate the sale of the unwanted assets are not required to be capitalized as amounts paid to facilitate the merger.
(3)
Mandatory stock distributions.
An amount paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a distribution of stock by a taxpayer to its shareholders does not facilitate a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section if the divestiture of the stock (or of properties transferred to an entity whose stock is distributed) is required by law, regulatory mandate, or court order. A taxpayer is not required to capitalize (under this section or § 1.263(a)-4) an amount paid to organize (or facilitate the organization of) an entity if the entity is organized solely to receive properties that the taxpayer is required to divest by law, regulatory mandate, or court order and if the taxpayer distributes the stock of the entity to its shareholders. A taxpayer also is not required to capitalize (under this section or § 1.263(a)-4) an amount paid to transfer property to an entity if the taxpayer is required to divest itself of that property by law, regulatory mandate, or court order and if the stock of the recipient entity is distributed to the taxpayer's shareholders.
(4)
Bankruptcy reorganization costs.
An amount paid to institute or administer a proceeding under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code by a taxpayer that is the debtor under the proceeding constitutes an amount paid to facilitate a reorganization within the meaning of paragraph (a)(4) of this section, regardless of the purpose for which the proceeding is instituted. For example, an amount paid to prepare and file a petition under Chapter 11, to obtain an extension of the exclusivity period under Chapter 11, to formulate plans of reorganization under Chapter 11, to analyze plans of reorganization formulated by another party in interest, or to contest or obtain approval of a plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 facilitates a reorganization within the meaning of this section. However, amounts specifically paid to formulate, analyze, contest or obtain approval of the portion of a plan of reorganization under Chapter 11 that resolves tort liabilities of the taxpayer do not facilitate a reorganization within the meaning of paragraph (a)(4) of this section if the amounts would have been treated as ordinary and necessary business expenses under section 162 had the bankruptcy proceeding not been instituted. In addition, an amount paid by the taxpayer to defend against the commencement of an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding against the taxpayer does not facilitate a reorganization within the meaning of paragraph (a)(4) of this section. An amount paid by the debtor to operate its business during a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding is not an amount paid to institute or administer the bankruptcy proceeding and does not facilitate a reorganization. Such amount is treated in the same manner as it would have been treated had the bankruptcy proceeding not been instituted.
(5)
Stock issuance costs of open-end regulated investment companies.
Amounts paid by an open-end regulated investment company (within the meaning of section 851) to facilitate an issuance of its stock are treated as amounts that do not facilitate a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section unless the amounts are paid during the initial stock offering period.
(6)
Integration costs.
An amount paid to integrate the business operations of the taxpayer with the business operations of another does not facilitate a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section, regardless of when the integration activities occur.
(7)
Registrar and transfer agent fees for the maintenance of capital stock records.
An amount paid by a taxpayer to a registrar or transfer agent in connection with the transfer of the taxpayer's capital stock does not facilitate a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section unless the amount is paid
with respect to a specific transaction described in paragraph (a). For example, a taxpayer is not required to capitalize periodic payments to a transfer agent for maintaining records of the names and addresses of shareholders who trade the taxpayer's shares on a national exchange. By comparison, a taxpayer is required to capitalize an amount paid to the transfer agent for distributing proxy statements requesting shareholder approval of a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(8)
Termination payments and amounts paid to facilitate mutually exclusive transactions.
An amount paid to terminate (or facilitate the termination of) an agreement to enter into a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section constitutes an amount paid to facilitate a second transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section only if the transactions are mutually exclusive. An amount paid to facilitate a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section is treated as an amount paid to facilitate a second transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section only if the transactions are mutually exclusive.
(d)
Simplifying conventions
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of this section, employee compensation (within the meaning of paragraph (d)(2) of this section), overhead, and
de minimis
costs (within the meaning of paragraph (d)(3) of this section) are treated as amounts that do not facilitate a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Employee compensation
—(i)
In general.
The term
employee compensation
means compensation (including salary, bonuses and commissions) paid to an employee of the taxpayer. For purposes of this section, whether an individual is an employee is determined in accordance with the rules contained in section 3401(c) and the regulations thereunder.
(ii)
Certain amounts treated as employee compensation.
For purposes of this section, a guaranteed payment to a partner in a partnership is treated as employee compensation. For purposes of this section, annual compensation paid to a director of a corporation is treated as employee compensation. For example, an amount paid to a director of a corporation for attendance at a regular meeting of the board of directors (or committee thereof) is treated as employee compensation for purposes of this section. However, an amount paid to the director for attendance at a special meeting of the board of directors (or committee thereof) is not treated as employee compensation. An amount paid to a person that is not an employee of the taxpayer (including the employer of the individual who performs the services) is treated as employee compensation for purposes of this section only if the amount is paid for secretarial, clerical, or similar administrative support services (other than services involving the preparation and distribution of proxy solicitations and other documents seeking shareholder approval of a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section). In the case of an affiliated group of corporations filing a consolidated federal income tax return, a payment by one member of the group to a second member of the group for services performed by an employee of the second member is treated as employee compensation if the services provided by the employee are provided at a time during which both members are affiliated.
(3)
De minimis costs
—(i)
In general.
The term
de minimis costs
means amounts (other than employee compensation and overhead) paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section if, in the aggregate, the amounts do not exceed $5,000 (or such greater amount as may be set forth in published guidance). If the amounts exceed $5,000 (or such greater amount as may be set forth in published guidance), none of the amounts are
de minimis costs
within the meaning of this paragraph (d)(3). For purposes of this paragraph (d)(3), an amount paid in the form of property is valued at its fair market value at the time of the payment.
(ii)
Treatment of commissions.
The term
de minimis costs
does not include commissions paid to facilitate a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(4)
Election to capitalize.
A taxpayer may elect to treat employee compensation, overhead, or
de minimis costs
paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section as amounts that facilitate the transaction. The election is made separately for each transaction and applies to employee compensation, overhead, or
de minimis costs,
or to any combination thereof. For example, a taxpayer may elect to treat overhead and
de minimis costs,
but not employee compensation, as amounts that facilitate the transaction. A taxpayer makes the election by treating the amounts to which the election applies as amounts that facilitate the transaction in the taxpayer's timely filed original federal income tax return (including extensions) for the taxable year during which the amounts are paid. In the case of an affiliated group of corporations filing a consolidated return, the election is made separately with respect to each member of the group, and not with respect to the group as a whole. In the case of an S corporation or partnership, the election is made by the S corporation or by the partnership, and not by the shareholders or partners. An election made under this paragraph (d)(4) is revocable with respect to each taxable year for which made only with the consent of the Commissioner.
(e)
Certain acquisitive transactions
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section (relating to inherently facilitative amounts), an amount paid by the taxpayer in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a covered transaction (as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) facilitates the transaction within the meaning of this section only if the amount relates to activities performed on or after the earlier of—
(i) The date on which a letter of intent, exclusivity agreement, or similar written communication (other than a confidentiality agreement) is executed by representatives of the acquirer and the target; or
(ii) The date on which the material terms of the transaction (as tentatively agreed to by representatives of the acquirer and the target) are authorized or approved by the taxpayer's board of directors (or committee of the board of directors) or, in the case of a taxpayer that is not a corporation, the date on which the material terms of the transaction (as tentatively agreed to by representatives of the acquirer and the target) are authorized or approved by the appropriate governing officials of the taxpayer. In the case of a transaction that does not require authorization or approval of the taxpayer's board of directors (or appropriate governing officials in the case of a taxpayer that is not a corporation) the date determined under this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) is the date on which the acquirer and the target execute a binding written contract reflecting the terms of the transaction.
(2)
Exception for inherently facilitative amounts.
An amount paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a covered transaction facilitates that transaction if the amount is inherently facilitative, regardless of whether the amount is paid for activities performed prior to the date determined under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. An amount is inherently facilitative if the amount is paid for—
(i) Securing an appraisal, formal written evaluation, or fairness opinion related to the transaction;
(ii) Structuring the transaction, including negotiating the structure of the transaction and obtaining tax advice on the structure of the transaction (for example, obtaining tax advice on the application of section 368);
(iii) Preparing and reviewing the documents that effectuate the transaction (for example, a merger agreement or purchase agreement);
(iv) Obtaining regulatory approval of the transaction, including preparing and reviewing regulatory filings;
(v) Obtaining shareholder approval of the transaction (for example, proxy costs, solicitation costs, and costs to promote the transaction to shareholders); or
(vi) Conveying property between the parties to the transaction (for example, transfer taxes and title registration costs).
(3)
Covered transactions.
For purposes of this paragraph (e), the term
covered transaction
means the following transactions:
(i) A taxable acquisition by the taxpayer of assets that constitute a trade or business.
(ii) A taxable acquisition of an ownership interest in a business entity (whether the taxpayer is the acquirer in the acquisition or the target of the acquisition) if, immediately after the acquisition, the acquirer and the target are related within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b).
(iii) A reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(A), (B), or (C) or a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(D) in which stock or securities of the corporation to which the assets are transferred are distributed in a transaction which qualifies under section 354 or 356 (whether the taxpayer is the acquirer or the target in the reorganization).
(f)
Documentation of success-based fees
—An amount paid that is contingent on the successful closing of a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section is an amount paid to facilitate the transaction except to the extent the taxpayer maintains sufficient documentation to establish that a portion of the fee is allocable to activities that do not facilitate the transaction. This documentation must be completed on or before the due date of the taxpayer's timely filed original federal income tax return (including extensions) for the taxable year during which the transaction closes. For purposes of this paragraph (f), documentation must consist of more than merely an allocation between activities that facilitate the transaction and activities that do not facilitate the transaction, and must consist of supporting records (for example, time records, itemized invoices, or other records) that identify—
(1) The various activities performed by the service provider;
(2) The amount of the fee (or percentage of time) that is allocable to each of the various activities performed;
(3) Where the date the activity was performed is relevant to understanding whether the activity facilitated the transaction, the amount of the fee (or percentage of time) that is allocable to the performance of that activity before and after the relevant date; and
(4) The name, business address, and business telephone number of the service provider.
(g)
Treatment of capitalized costs
—(1)
Tax-free acquisitive transactions.
[Reserved]
(2)
Taxable acquisitive transactions
—(i)
Acquirer.
In the case of an acquisition, merger, or consolidation that is not described in section 368, an amount required to be capitalized under this section by the acquirer is added to the basis of the acquired assets (in the case of a transaction that is treated as an acquisition of the assets of the target for federal income tax purposes) or the acquired stock (in the case of a transaction that is treated as an acquisition of the stock of the target for federal income tax purposes).
(ii)
Target
—(A)
Asset acquisition.
In the case of an acquisition, merger, or consolidation that is not described in section 368 and that is treated as an acquisition of the assets of the target for federal income tax purposes, an amount required to be capitalized under this section by the target is treated as a reduction of the target's amount realized on the disposition of its assets.
(B)
Stock acquisition.
[Reserved]
(3)
Stock issuance transactions.
[Reserved]
(4)
Borrowings.
For the treatment of amounts required to be capitalized under this section with respect to a borrowing, see § 1.446-5.
(5)
Treatment of capitalized amounts by option writer.
An amount required to be capitalized by an option writer under paragraph (a)(10) of this section is not currently deductible under section 162 or 212. Instead, the amount required to be capitalized generally reduces the total premium received by the option writer. However, other provisions of law may limit the reduction of the premium by the capitalized amount (for example, if the capitalized amount is never deductible by the option writer).
(h)
Application to accrual method taxpayers.
For purposes of this section, the terms
amount paid
and
payment
mean, in the case of a taxpayer using an accrual method of accounting, a liability incurred (within the meaning of § 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii)). A liability may not be taken into account under this section prior to
the taxable year during which the liability is incurred.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Coordination with other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
Nothing in this section changes the treatment of an amount that is specifically provided for under any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code (other than section 162(a) or 212) or regulations thereunder.
(k)
Treatment of indirect payments.
For purposes of this section, references to an amount paid to or by a party include an amount paid on behalf of that party.
(l)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this section:

# Example 1. Costs to facilitate.
Q corporation pays its outside counsel $20,000 to assist Q in registering its stock with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Q is not a regulated investment company within the meaning of section 851. Q's payments to its outside counsel are amounts paid to facilitate the issuance of stock. Accordingly, Q must capitalize its $20,000 payment under paragraph (a)(8) of this section (whether incurred before or after the issuance of the stock and whether or not the registration is productive of equity capital).

# Example 2. Costs to facilitate.
Q corporation seeks to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Y corporation. To finance the acquisition, Q must issue new debt. Q pays an investment banker $25,000 to market the debt to the public and pays its outside counsel $10,000 to prepare the offering documents for the debt. Q's payment of $35,000 facilitates a borrowing and must be capitalized under paragraph (a)(9) of this section. As provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, Q's payment does not facilitate the acquisition of Y, notwithstanding the fact that Q incurred the new debt to finance its acquisition of Y. See § 1.446-5 for the treatment of Q's capitalized payment.

# Example 3. Costs to facilitate.
(i) Z agrees to pay investment banker B $1,000,000 for B's services in evaluating four alternative transactions ($250,000 for each alternative): An initial public offering; a borrowing of funds; an acquisition by Z of a competitor; and an acquisition of Z by a competitor. Z eventually decides to pursue a borrowing and abandons the other options.
(ii) The $250,000 payment to evaluate the possibility of a borrowing is an amount paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a transaction described in paragraph (a)(9) of this section. Accordingly Z must capitalize that $250,000 payment to B. See § 1.446-5 for the treatment of Z's capitalized payment.
(iii) The $250,000 payment to evaluate the possibility of an initial public offering is an amount paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing a transaction described in paragraph (a)(8) of this section. Accordingly, Z must capitalize that $250,000 payment to B under this section. Because the borrowing and the initial public offering are not mutually exclusive transactions, the $250,000 is not treated as an amount paid to facilitate the borrowing. When Z abandons the initial public offering, Z may recover under section 165 the $250,000 paid to facilitate the initial public offering.
(iv) The $500,000 paid by Z to evaluate the possibilities of an acquisition of Z by a competitor and an acquisition of a competitor by Z are amounts paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing transactions described in paragraphs (a) and (e)(3) of this section. Accordingly, Z is only required to capitalize under this section the portion of the $500,000 payment that relates to inherently facilitative activities under paragraph (e)(2) of this section or to activities performed on or after the date determined under paragraph (e)(1) of this section. Because the borrowing and the possible acquisitions are not mutually exclusive transactions, no portion of the $500,000 is treated as an amount paid to facilitate the borrowing. When Z abandons the acquisition transactions, Z may recover under section 165 any portion of the $500,000 that was paid to facilitate the acquisitions.

# Example 4. Corporate acquisition.
(i) On February 1, 2005, R corporation decides to investigate the acquisition of three potential targets: T corporation, U corporation, and V corporation. R's consideration of T, U, and V represents the consideration of three distinct transactions, any or all of which R might consummate and has the financial ability to consummate. On March 1, 2005, R enters into an exclusivity agreement with T and stops pursuing U and V. On July 1, 2005, R acquires all of the stock of T in a transaction described in section 368. R pays $1,000,000 to an investment banker and $50,000 to its outside counsel to conduct due diligence on T, U, and V; determine the value of T, U, and V; negotiate and structure the transaction with T; draft the merger agreement; secure shareholder approval; prepare SEC filings; and obtain the necessary regulatory approvals.
(ii) Under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the amounts paid to conduct due diligence on T, U and V prior to March 1, 2005 (the date of the exclusivity agreement) are not amounts paid to facilitate the acquisition of the stock of T, U or V and are not required to be capitalized under this section. However, the amounts paid to conduct due diligence on T on and after March 1, 2005, are amounts paid to facilitate the acquisition of the stock of T and must be capitalized under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(iii) Under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the amounts paid to determine the value of T, negotiate and structure the transaction with T, draft the merger agreement, secure shareholder approval, prepare SEC filings, and obtain necessary regulatory approvals are inherently facilitative amounts paid to facilitate the acquisition of the stock of T and must be capitalized, regardless of whether those activities occur prior to, on, or after March 1, 2005.
(iv) Under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the amounts paid to determine the value of U and V are inherently facilitative amounts paid to facilitate the acquisition of U or V and must be capitalized. Because the acquisition of U, V, and T are not mutually exclusive transactions, the costs that facilitate the acquisition of U and V do not facilitate the acquisition of T. Accordingly, the amounts paid to determine the value of U and V may be recovered under section 165 in the taxable year that R abandons the planned mergers with U and V.

# Example 5. Corporate acquisition; employee bonus.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 4,
except R pays a bonus of $10,000 to one of its corporate officers who negotiated the acquisition of T. As provided by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, Y is not required to capitalize any portion of the bonus paid to the corporate officer.

# Example 6. Corporate acquisition; integration costs.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 4,
except that, before and after the acquisition is consummated, R incurs costs to relocate personnel and equipment, provide severance benefits to terminated employees, integrate records and information systems, prepare new financial statements for the combined entity, and reduce redundancies in the combined business operations. Under paragraph (c)(6) of this section, these costs do not facilitate the acquisition of T. Accordingly, R is not required to capitalize any of these costs under this section.

# Example 7. Corporate acquisition; compensation to target's employees.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 4,
except that, prior to the acquisition, certain employees of T held unexercised options issued pursuant to T's stock option plan. These options granted the employees the right to purchase T stock at a fixed option price. The options did not have a readily ascertainable value (within the meaning of § 1.83-7(b)), and thus no amount was included in the employees' income when the options were granted. As a condition of the acquisition, T is required to terminate its stock option plan. T therefore agrees to pay its employees who hold unexercised stock options the difference between the option price and the current value of T's stock in consideration of their agreement to cancel their unexercised options. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, T is not required to capitalize the amounts paid to its employees. See section 83 for the treatment of amounts received in cancellation of stock options.

# Example 8. Asset acquisition; employee compensation.
N corporation owns tangible and intangible assets that constitute a trade or business. M corporation purchases all the assets of N in a taxable transaction. Under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, M must capitalize amounts paid to facilitate the acquisition of the assets of N. Under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, no portion of the salaries of M's employees who work on the acquisition are treated as facilitating the transaction.

# Example 9. Corporate acquisition; retainer.
Y corporation's outside counsel charges Y $60,000 for services rendered in facilitating the friendly acquisition of the stock of Y corporation by X corporation. Y has an agreement with its outside counsel under which Y pays an annual retainer of $50,000. Y's outside counsel has the right to offset amounts billed for any legal services rendered against the annual retainer. Pursuant to this agreement, Y's outside counsel offsets $50,000 of the legal fees from the acquisition against the retainer and bills Y for the balance of $10,000. The $60,000 legal fee is an amount paid to facilitate the acquisition of an ownership interest in Y as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Y must capitalize the full amount of the $60,000 legal fee.

# Example 10. Corporate acquisition; antitrust defense costs.
On March 1, 2005, V corporation enters into an agreement with X corporation to acquire all of the outstanding stock of X. On April 1, 2005, federal and state regulators file suit against V to prevent the acquisition of X on the ground that the acquisition violates antitrust laws. V enters into a consent agreement with regulators on May 1, 2005, that allows the acquisition to proceed, but requires V to hold separate the business operations of X pending the outcome of the antitrust suit and subjects V to possible divestiture. V acquires title to all of the outstanding stock of X on June 1, 2005. After June 1, 2005, the regulators pursue antitrust litigation against V seeking rescission of the acquisition. V pays $50,000 to its outside counsel for services rendered after June 1, 2005, to defend against the antitrust litigation. V ultimately prevails in the antitrust litigation. V's costs to defend the antitrust litigation are costs to facilitate its acquisition of the stock of X under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and must be capitalized. Although title to the shares of X passed to V prior to the date V incurred costs to defend the antitrust litigation, the amounts paid by V are paid in the process of pursuing the acquisition of the stock of X because the acquisition was not complete until the antitrust litigation was ultimately resolved. V must capitalize the $50,000 in legal fees.

# Example 11. Corporate acquisition; defensive measures.
(i) On January 15, 2005, Y corporation, a publicly traded corporation, becomes the target of a hostile takeover attempt by Z corporation. In an effort to defend against the takeover, Y pays legal fees to seek an injunction against the takeover and investment banking fees to locate a potential “white knight” acquirer. Y also pays amounts to complete a defensive recapitalization, and pays $50,000 to an investment banker for a fairness opinion regarding Z's initial offer. Y's efforts to enjoin the takeover and locate a white knight acquirer are unsuccessful, and on March 15, 2005, Y's board of directors decides to abandon its defense against the takeover and negotiate with Z in an effort to obtain the highest possible price for its shareholders. After Y abandons its defense against the takeover, Y pays an investment banker $1,000,000 for a second fairness opinion and for services rendered in negotiating with Z.
(ii) The legal fees paid by Y to seek an injunction against the takeover are not amounts paid in the process of investigating or otherwise pursuing the transaction with Z. Accordingly, these legal fees are not required to be capitalized under this section.
(iii) The investment banking fees paid to search for a white knight acquirer do not facilitate an acquisition of Y by a white knight because none of Y's costs with respect to a white knight were inherently facilitative amounts and because Y did not reach the date described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section with respect to a white knight. Accordingly, these amounts are not required to be capitalized under this section.
(iv) The amounts paid by Y to investigate and complete the recapitalization must be capitalized under paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(v) The $50,000 paid to the investment bankers for a fairness opinion during Y's defense against the takeover and the $1,000,000 paid to the investment bankers after Y abandons its defense against the takeover are inherently facilitative amounts with respect to the transaction with Z and must be capitalized under paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

# Example 12. Corporate acquisition; acquisition by white knight.
(i) Assume the same facts as in
Example 11,
except that Y's investment bankers identify three potential white knight acquirers: U corporation, V corporation, and W corporation. Y pays its investment bankers to conduct due diligence on the three potential white knight acquirers. On March 15, 2005, Y's board of directors approves a tentative acquisition agreement under which W agrees to acquire all of the stock of Y, and the investment bankers stop due diligence on U and V. On June 15, 2005, W acquires all of the stock of Y.
(ii) Under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the amounts paid to conduct due diligence on U, V, and W prior to March 15, 2005 (the date of board of directors' approval) are not amounts paid to facilitate the acquisition of the stock of Y and are not required to be capitalized under this section. However, the amounts paid to conduct due diligence on W on and after March 15, 2005, facilitate the acquisition of the stock of Y and are required to be capitalized.

# Example 13. Corporate acquisition; mutually exclusive costs.
(i) Assume the same facts as in
Example 11,
except that Y's investment banker finds W, a white knight. Y and W execute a letter of intent on March 10, 2005. Under the terms of the letter of intent, Y must pay W a $10,000,000 break-up fee if the merger with W does not occur. On April 1, 2005, Z significantly increases the amount of its offer, and Y decides to accept Z's offer instead of merging with W. Y pays its investment banker $500,000 for inherently facilitative costs with respect to the potential merger with W. Y also pays its investment banker $2,000,000 for due diligence costs with respect to the potential merger with W, $1,000,000 of which relates to services performed on or after March 10, 2005.
(ii) Y's $500,000 payment for inherently facilitative costs and Y's $1,000,000 payment for due diligence activities performed on or after March 10, 2005 (the date the letter of intent with W is entered into) facilitate the potential merger with W. Because Y could not merge with both W and Z, under paragraph (c)(8) of this section the $500,000 and $1,000,000 payments also facilitate the transaction between Y and Z. Accordingly, Y must capitalize the $500,000 and $1,000,000 payments as amounts that facilitate the transaction with Z.
(iii) Similarly, because Y could not merge with both W and Z, under paragraph (c)(8) of this section the $10,000,000 termination payment facilitates the transaction between Y and Z. Accordingly, Y must capitalize the $10,000,000 termination payment as an amount that facilitates the transaction with Z.

# Example 14. Break-up fee; transactions not mutually exclusive.
N corporation and U corporation enter into an agreement under which U would acquire all the stock or all the assets of N in exchange for U stock. Under the terms of the agreement, if either party terminates the agreement, the terminating party must pay the other party $10,000,000. U decides to terminate the agreement and pays N $10,000,000. Shortly thereafter, U acquires all the stock of V corporation, a competitor of N. U had the financial resources to have acquired both N and V. U's $10,000,000 payment does not facilitate U's acquisition of V. Accordingly, U is not required to capitalize the $10,000,000 payment under this section.

# Example 15. Corporate reorganization; initial public offering.
Y corporation is a closely held
corporation. Y's board of directors authorizes an initial public offering of Y's stock to fund future growth. Y pays $5,000,000 in professional fees for investment banking services related to the determination of the offering price and legal services related to the development of the offering prospectus and the registration and issuance of stock. The investment banking and legal services are performed both before and after board authorization. Under paragraph (a)(8) of this section, the $5,000,000 is an amount paid to facilitate a stock issuance.

# Example 16. Auction.
(i) N corporation seeks to dispose of all of the stock of its wholly owned subsidiary, P corporation, through an auction process and requests that each bidder submit a non-binding purchase offer in the form of a draft agreement. Q corporation hires an investment banker to assist in the preparation of Q's bid to acquire P and to conduct a due diligence investigation of P. On July 1, 2005, Q submits its draft agreement. On August 1, 2005, N informs Q that it has accepted Q's offer, and presents Q with a signed letter of intent to sell all of the stock of P to Q. On August 5, 2005, Q's board of directors approves the terms of the transaction and authorizes Q to execute the letter of intent. Q executes a binding letter of intent with N on August 6, 2005.
(ii) Under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the amounts paid by Q to its investment banker that are not inherently facilitative and that are paid for activities performed prior to August 5, 2005 (the date Q's board of directors approves the transaction) are not amounts paid to facilitate the acquisition of P. Amounts paid by Q to its investment banker for activities performed on or after August 5, 2005, and amounts paid by Q to its investment banker that are inherently facilitative amounts within the meaning of paragraph (e)(2) of this section are required to be capitalized under this section.

# Example 17. Stock distribution.
Z corporation distributes natural gas throughout state Y. The federal government brings an antitrust action against Z seeking divestiture of certain of Z's natural gas distribution assets. As a result of a court ordered divestiture, Z and the federal government agree to a plan of divestiture that requires Z to organize a subsidiary to receive the divested assets and to distribute the stock of the subsidiary to its shareholders. During 2005, Z pays $300,000 to various independent contractors for the following services: studying customer demand in the area to be served by the divested assets, identifying assets to be transferred to the subsidiary, organizing the subsidiary, structuring the transfer of assets to the subsidiary to qualify as a tax-free transaction to Z, and distributing the stock of the subsidiary to the stockholders. Under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, Z is not required to capitalize any portion of the $300,000 payments.

# Example 18. Bankruptcy reorganization.
(i) X corporation is the defendant in numerous lawsuits alleging tort liability based on X's role in manufacturing certain defective products. X files a petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in an effort to manage all of the lawsuits in a single proceeding. X pays its outside counsel to prepare the petition and plan of reorganization, to analyze adequate protection under the plan, to attend hearings before the Bankruptcy Court concerning the plan, and to defend against motions by creditors and tort claimants to strike the taxpayer's plan.
(ii) X's reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code is a reorganization within the meaning of paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, amounts paid by X to its outside counsel to prepare, analyze or obtain approval of the portion of X's plan of reorganization that resolves X's tort liability do not facilitate the reorganization and are not required to be capitalized, provided that such amounts would have been treated as ordinary and necessary business expenses under section 162 had the bankruptcy proceeding not been instituted. All other amounts paid by X to its outside counsel for the services described above (including all amounts paid to prepare the bankruptcy petition) facilitate the reorganization and must be capitalized.
(m)
Effective date.
This section applies to amounts paid or incurred on or after December 31, 2003.
(n)
Accounting method changes
—(1)
In general.
A taxpayer seeking to change a method of accounting to comply with this section must secure the consent of the Commissioner in accordance with the requirements of § 1.446-1(e). For the taxpayer's first taxable year ending on or after December 31, 2003, the taxpayer is granted the consent of the Commissioner to change its method of accounting to comply with this section, provided the taxpayer follows the administrative procedures issued under § 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) for obtaining the Commissioner's automatic consent to a change in accounting method (for further guidance, for example, see Rev. Proc. 2002-9 (2002-1 C.B. 327) and § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter).
(2)
Scope limitations.
Any limitations on obtaining the automatic consent of the Commissioner do not apply to a taxpayer seeking to change to a method of accounting to comply with this section for its first taxable year ending on or after December 31, 2003.
(3)
Section 481(a) adjustment.
The section 481(a) adjustment for a change in method of accounting to comply with this section for a taxpayer's first taxable year ending on or after December 31, 2003 is determined by taking into account only amounts paid or incurred in taxable years ending on or after January 24, 2002.
[T.D. 9107, 69 FR 446, Jan. 5, 2004]
§ 1.263(a)-6
Election to deduct or capitalize certain expenditures.
(a)
In general.
Under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (Code), taxpayers may elect to treat capital expenditures as deductible expenses or as deferred expenses, or to treat deductible expenses as capital expenditures.
(b)
Election provisions.
The sections referred to in paragraph (a) of this section include:
(1) Section 173 (circulation expenditures);
(2) Section 174 (research and experimental expenditures);
(3) Section 175 (soil and water conservation expenditures; endangered species recovery expenditures);
(4) Section 179 (election to expense certain depreciable business assets);
(5) Section 179A (deduction for clean-fuel vehicles and certain refueling property);
(6) Section 179B (deduction for capital costs incurred in complying with environmental protection agency sulfur regulations);
(7) Section 179C (election to expense certain refineries);
(8) Section 179D (energy efficient commercial buildings deduction);
(9) Section 179E (election to expense advanced mine safety equipment);
(10) Section 180 (expenditures by farmers for fertilizer);
(11) Section 181 (treatment of certain qualified film and television productions);
(12) Section 190 (expenditures to remove architectural and transportation barriers to the handicapped and elderly);
(13) Section 193 (tertiary injectants);
(14) Section 194 (treatment of reforestation expenditures);
(15) Section 195 (start-up expenditures);
(16) Section 198 (expensing of environmental remediation costs);
(17) Section 198A (expensing of qualified disaster expenses);
(18) Section 248 (organization expenditures of a corporation);
(19) Section 266 (carrying charges);
(20) Section 616 (development expenditures); and
(21) Section 709 (organization and syndication fees of a partnership).
(c)
Effective/applicability date
—(1)
In general.
This section applies to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014. Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, § 1.263(a)-3 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 2011, applies to taxable years beginning before January 1, 2014. For the effective dates of the enumerated election provisions, see those Code sections and the regulations under those sections.
(2)
Early application of this section.
A taxpayer may choose to apply this section to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012.
(3)
Optional application of TD 9564.
A taxpayer may choose to apply § 1.263(a)-6T as contained in TD 9564 (76 FR 81060) December 27, 2011, to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and before January 1, 2014.
[T.D. 9636, 78 FR 57745, Sept. 19, 2013]
§ 1.263(b)-1
Expenditures for advertising or promotion of good will.
See § 1.162-14 for the rules applicable to a corporation which has elected to capitalize expenditures for advertising or the promotion of good will under the provisions of section 733 or section 451 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, in computing its excess profits tax credit under Subchapter E, Chapter 2, or Subchapter D, Chapter 1, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939.
§ 1.263(c)-1
Intangible drilling and development costs in the case of oil and gas wells.
For rules relating to the option to deduct as expenses intangible drilling and development costs in the case of oil and gas wells, see § 1.612-4.
§ 1.263(e)-1
Expenditures in connection with certain railroad rolling stock.
(a)
Allowance of deduction
—(1)
Election.
Under section 263(e), for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, a taxpayer may elect to treat certain expenditures paid or incurred during such taxable year as deductible repairs under section 162 or 212. This election applies only to expenditures described in paragraph (c) of this section in connection with the rehabilitation of a unit of railroad rolling stock (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) used by a domestic common carrier by railroad (as defined in paragraph (b) (3) and (4) of this section). However, an election under section 263(e) may not be made with respect to expenditures in connection with any unit of railroad rolling stock for which an election under section 263(f) and the regulations thereunder is in effect. An election made under section 263(e) is an annual election which may be made with respect to one or more of the units of railroad rolling stock owned by the taxpayer.
(2)
Special 20 percent rule.
Section 263(e) shall not apply if, under paragraph (d) of this section, expenditures paid or incurred during any period of 12 calendar months in connection with the rehabilitation of a unit exceed 20 percent of the basis (as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of such unit in the hands of the taxpayer. However, section 263(e) does not constitute a limit on the deduction of expenditures for repairs which are deductible without regard to such section. Accordingly, amounts otherwise deductible as repairs will continue to be deductible even though such amounts exceed 20 percent of the basis of the unit of railroad rolling stock in the hands of the taxpayer.
(3)
Time and manner of making election.
(i) An election by a taxpayer under section 263(e) shall be made by a statement to that effect attached to its income tax return or amended income tax return for the taxable year for which the election is made if such return or amended return is filed no later than the time prescribed by law (including extensions thereof) for filing the return for the taxable year of election. An election under section 263(e) may be made with respect to one or more of the units of railroad rolling stock owned by the taxpayer. If an election is not made within the time and in the manner prescribed in this subparagraph, no election may be made (by the filing of an amended return or in any other manner) with respect to the taxable year.
(ii) If the taxpayer has filed a return on or before March 14, 1973, and has claimed a deduction under section 162 or 212 by reason of section 263(e), and if the taxpayer does not desire to make an election under section 263(e) for the taxable year with respect to which such return was filed, the taxpayer shall file an amended return for such taxable year on or before May 14, 1973, and shall pay any additional tax due for such year. The taxpayer shall also file an amended return for each taxable year which is affected by the filing of an amended return under the preceding sentence and shall pay any additional tax due for such year. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed as extending the time specified in section 6511 within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed.
(iii) If an election under section 263(e) was not made at the time the return for a taxable year was filed, and it is subsequently determined that an expenditure was erroneously treated as an expenditure which was not in connection with rehabilitation (as determined under paragraph (c) of this section), an election under section 263(e) may be made with respect to the unit of railroad rolling stock for which such expenditure was made for such taxable year, notwithstanding any provision in this subparagraph (3) to the contrary. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed as extending the time specified in section 6511 within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed.
(iv) The statement required by subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall include the following information:
(
a
) The total number of units of railroad rolling stock with respect to which an election is being made under section 263(e).
(
b
) The aggregate basis (as defined in paragraph (b) (1) of this section) of the
units described in (a) of this subdivision (iv), and
(
c
) The total deduction being claimed under section 263(e) for the taxable year.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Basis.
(i) In general, for purposes of section 263(e) the basis of a unit of railroad rolling stock shall be the adjusted basis of such unit determined without regard to the adjustments provided in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of section 1016(a) and section 1017. Thus, the basis of property would generally be its cost without regard to adjustments to basis such as for depreciation or for capital improvements. If the basis of a unit in the hands of a transferee is determined in whole or in part by reference to its basis in the hands of the transferor, for example, by reason of the application of section 362 (relating to basis to corporations), 374 (relating to gain or loss not recognized in certain railroad reorganizations), or 723 (relating to the basis of property contributed to a partnership), then the basis of such unit in the hands of the transferor for purposes of section 263(e) shall be its basis for purposes of section 263(e) in the hands of the transferee. Similarly, when the basis of a unit of railroad rolling stock in the hands of the taxpayer is determined in whole or in part by reference to the basis of another unit, for example, by reason of the application of the first sentence of section 1033(c) (relating to involuntary conversions), then the basis of the latter unit for purposes of section 263(e) shall be the basis for purposes of section 263(e) of the former unit. The question whether a capital expenditure in connection with a unit of railroad rolling stock results in the retirement of such unit and the creation of another unit of railroad rolling stock shall be determined without regard to rules under the uniform system of accounts prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
(ii) For example, if a unit of railroad rolling stock has a cost to M of $10,000 and because of depreciation adjustments of $4,000 and capital expenditures of $3,000, such unit has an adjusted basis in the hands of M of $9,000, the basis for purposes of section 263(e) of such unit in the hands of M is $10,000. Further, if M transfers such unit to N in a transaction in which no gain or loss is recognized such as, for example, a transaction to which section 351(a) (relating to a transfer to a corporation controlled by the transferor) applies, the basis of such unit for purposes of section 263(e) is $10,000 in the hands of N.
(2)
Railroad rolling stock.
For purposes of this section, the term
unit
or
unit of railroad rolling stock
means a unit of transportation equipment the expenditures for which are of a type chargeable (or in the case of property leased to a domestic common carrier by railroad, would be chargeable) to the equipment investment accounts in the uniform system of accounts for railroad companies prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission (49 CFR Part 1201), but only if (i) such unit exclusively moves on, moves under, or is guided by rail, and (ii) such unit is not a locomotive. Thus, for example, a unit of railroad rolling stock includes a box car, a gondola car, a passenger car, a car designed to carry truck trailers and containerized freight, a wreck crane, and a bunk car. However, such term does not include equipment which does not exclusively move on, move under, or is not exclusively guided by rail such as, for example, a barge, a tugboat, a container which is used on cars designed to carry containerized freight, a truck trailer, or an automobile. A locomotive is self-propelled equipment, the sole function of which is to push or pull railroad rolling stock. Thus, a self-propelled passenger or freight car is not a locomotive.
(3)
Domestic common carrier by railroad.
The term
domestic common carrier by railroad
means a railroad subject to regulation under Part I of the Interstate Commerce Act (49 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
) or a railroad which would be subject to regulation under Part I of the Interstate Commerce Act if it were engaged in interstate commerce.
(4)
Use.
For purposes of this section, a unit of railroad rolling stock is not used by a domestic common carrier by railroad if it is owned by a person other than a domestic common carrier by railroad and (i) is exclusively used for transportation by the owner or (ii) is exclusively used for transportation by another person which is not a domestic
common carrier by railroad. Thus, for example, a unit of railroad rolling stock which is owned by a person which is not a domestic common carrier by railroad and is leased to a manufacturing company by the owner is not a unit of railroad rolling stock used by a domestic common carrier by railroad.
(c)
Expenditures considered in connection with rehabilitation.
For purposes of section 263(e) and this section all expenditures which would be properly chargeable to capital account but for the application of section 263 (e) or (f) shall be considered to be expenditures in connection with the rehabilitation of a unit of railroad rolling stock. Expenditures which are paid or incurred in connection with incidental repairs or maintenance of a unit of railroad rolling stock and which are deductible without regard to section 263 (e) or (f) shall not be included in any determination or computation under section 263(e) and shall not be treated as paid or incurred in connection with the rehabilitation of a unit of railroad rolling stock for purposes of section 263(e). The determination of whether an item would be, but for section 263 (e) or (f), properly chargeable to capital account shall be made in a manner consistent with the principles for classification of expenditures as between capital and expenses under the Internal Revenue Code. See, for example, §§ 1.162-4, 1.263(a)-1, 1.263(a)-2, and paragraph (a)(4) (ii) and (iii) of § 1.446-1. An expenditure shall be classified as capital or as expense without regard to its classification under the uniform system of accounts prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
(d)
20-percent limitation
—(1)
In general.
No expenditures in connection with the rehabilitation of a unit of railroad rolling stock shall be treated as a deductible repair by reason of an election under section 263(e) if, during any period of 12 calendar months in which the month the expenditure is included falls, all such expenditures exceed an amount equal to 20 percent of the basis (as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of such unit in the hands of the taxpayer. All such expenditures shall be included in the computation of the 20-percent limitation even if such expenditures were deducted under section 263(f) in either the preceding or succeeding taxable year. Solely for purposes of the 20-percent limitation in this paragraph, such expenditures shall be deemed to be included in the month in which a rehabilitation of the unit of railroad rolling stock is completed. For the requirement that expenditures treated as repairs solely by reason of an election under section 263(e) be deducted in the taxable year paid or incurred, see paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
12-month period.
For purposes of this section, any period of 12 calendar months shall consist of any 12 consecutive calendar months except that calendar months prior to the calendar month of January 1970 shall not be included in determining such period.
(3)
Period for certain corporate acquisitions.
If a unit of railroad rolling stock to which section 263(e) applies is sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of in a transaction in which its basis in the hands of the transferee is determined in whole or in part by reference to its basis in the hands of the transferor (see paragraph (b)(1) of this section), calendar months during which such unit is in the hands of the transferor and in the hands of such transferee shall both be included in the calendar months used by the transferor and the transferee to determine any period of 12 calendar months for purposes of section 263(e).
(4)
Deduction allowed in year paid or incurred.
If, based on the information available when the income tax return for a taxable year is filed, an expenditure paid or incurred in such taxable year would be deductible by reason of the application of section 263(e) but for the fact that it cannot be established whether the 20-percent limitation in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph will be exceeded, the expenditure shall be deducted for such taxable year. If by reason of the application of such 20-percent limitation it is subsequently determined that such expenditure is not deductible as a repair, an amended return shall be filed for the year in which such deduction was treated as a deductible repair and additional tax, if any, for such year shall be paid. Appropriate adjustment with respect to the
taxpayer's tax liability for any other affected year shall be made. Nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed as extending the time specified in section 6511 within which a claim for credit or refund may be filed.
(e)
Recordkeeping requirements
—(1)
In general.
Such records as will enable the accurate determination of the expenditures which may be subject to the treatment provided in section 263(e) shall be maintained. No deduction shall be allowed under section 162 or 212 by reason of section 263(e) with respect to a unit unless the taxpayer substantiates by adequate records that expenditures in connection with such unit of railroad rolling stock meet the requirements and limitations of this section.
(2)
Separate records.
A separate section 263(e) record shall be maintained for each unit with respect to which an election under section 263(e) is made. Such record shall:
(i) Identify the unit,
(ii) State the basis (as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) and the date of acquisition of the unit,
(iii) Enumerate for each unit the amount of all expenditures incurred in connection with rehabilitation of such unit which would, but for section 263 (e) or (f), be properly chargeable to capital account (including expenditures incurred by the taxpayer in connection with rehabilitation of such unit undertaken by a person other than the taxpayer) regardless of whether such expenditures during any 12-month period exceed 20 percent of the basis of such unit,
(iv) Describe the nature of the work in connection with each expenditure, and
(v) Specify the calendar month in which the rehabilitation is completed and the taxable year in which each expenditure is paid or incurred.
A section 263(e) record need only be prepared for a unit of railroad rolling stock for the period beginning on the first day of the eleventh calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the rehabilitation of such unit is completed and ending on the last day of the eleventh calendar month immediately succeeding such month. No section 263(e) record need be prepared for calendar months before January 1970.
(3)
Records for certain expenditures:
Expenditures determined to be incidental repairs and maintenance (referred to in paragraph (c) of this section) shall not be entered in the section 263(e) record. However, each taxpayer shall maintain records to reflect that such expenditures are properly deductible.
(4)
Convenience rule.
In general, expenditures and information maintained in compliance with subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph shall be recorded in the section 263(e) record of the specific unit with respect to which such expenditures are incurred. However, when a group of units of the same type are rehabilitated in a single project and the expenditure for each unit in the project will approximate the average expenditure per unit for the project, expenditures for the project may be aggregated without regard to the unit in the project with respect to which each expenditure is connected, and an amount equal to the aggregate expenditures for the project divided by the number of units in the project may be entered in the section 263(e) account of each unit in the project.
(f)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
M Corporation, a domestic common carrier by railroad, uses the calendar year as its taxable year. M owns and uses several gondola cars to which an election under section 263(e) applies for its taxable years 1970-1972. Gondola car No.1 has a basis (defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of $10,000. No expenditures properly chargeable to the section 263(e) record are made on gondola car No. 1 in 1970 and 1971, except in January 1971. In January 1971, M at a cost of $1,500 performed rehabilitation work on gondola car No. 1. Such amount was properly entered in the section 263(e) record for gondola car No.1. Since the expenditures in such record do not exceed an amount equal to 20 percent of the basis of gondola car No. 1 ($2,000) during any period of 12 calendar months in which January 1971 falls, the expenditures during January 1971 shall be treated as a deductible expense regardless of what the treatment would have been if section 263(e) had not been enacted.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 1.
Assume further that for 1970, 1971, and 1972, only the following expenditures in
connection with rehabilitation which would, but for section 263(e), be properly chargeable to capital account were deemed included for gondola car No. 2:
(a) December 1970
$1,500
(b) November 1971
600
(c) December 1971
400
(d) January 1972
1,050
Assume further that gondola car No. 2 has a basis (as defined in paragraph (b) (1) of this section) equal to $10,000, that M files its tax return by September 15 following each taxable year, and that each rehabilitation was completed in the month in which expenditures in connection with it were incurred. Any expenditures in connection with each gondola car (No. 1 or No. 2) have no effect on the treatment of expenditures in connection with the other gondola car. With respect to gondola car No. 2, the expenditures of December 1970 are treated as deductible repairs at the time M's income tax return for 1970 is filed because, based on the information available when the income tax return for 1970 is filed, such expenditure would be deductible by reason of application of section 263(e) but for the fact that it cannot be established whether the 20-percent limitation in paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be exceeded. Nevertheless, because such expenditures during the period of 12 calendar months including calendar months December 1970 and November 1971 exceed $2,000, the December 1970 rehabilitation expenditures are not subject to the provisions of section 263(e). Because such rehabilitation expenditures during the period of 12 calendar months including calendar months February 1971 and January 1972 exceed $2,000, rehabilitation expenditures in 1971 are not subject to the provisions of section 263(e). Similarly, the 1972 rehabilitation expenditures are not subject to the provisions of section 263(e).
[T.D. 7257, 38 FR 4255, Feb. 12, 1973]
§ 1.263(f)-1
Reasonable repair allowance.
(a) For rules regarding the election of the repair allowance authorized by section 263(f), the definition of repair allowance property, and the conditions under which an election may be made, see paragraphs (d) (2) and (f) of § 1.167(a)-11. An election may be made under this section for a taxable year only if the taxpayer makes an election under § 1.167(a)-11 for such taxable year.
(Sec. 263(f), 85 Stat. 509 (26 U.S.C. 263))
[T.D. 7272, 38 FR 9986, Apr. 23, 1973; 38 FR 12919, May 17, 1973, as amended by T.D. 7593, 44 FR 5421, Jan. 26, 1979]
§ 1.263A-0
Outline of regulations under section 263A.
This section lists the paragraphs in §§ 1.263A-1 through 1.263A-4 and §§ 1.263A-7 through 1.263A-15 as follows:

# § 1.263A-1 Uniform Capitalization of Costs.
(a) Introduction.
(1) In general.
(2) Effective dates.
(3) General scope.
(i) Property to which section 263A applies.
(ii) Property produced.
(iii) Property acquired for resale.
(iv) Inventories valued at market.
(v) Property produced in a farming business.
(vi) Creative property.
(vii) Property produced or property acquired for resale by foreign persons.
(b) Exceptions.
(1) Small business taxpayers.
(2) Long-term contracts.
(3) Costs incurred in certain farming businesses.
(4) Costs incurred in raising, harvesting, or growing timber.
(5) Qualified creative expenses.
(6) Certain not-for-profit activities.
(7) Intangible drilling and development costs.
(8) Natural gas acquired for resale.
(i) Cushion gas.
(ii) Emergency gas.
(9) Research and experimental expenditures.
(10) Certain property that is substantially constructed.
(11) Certain property provided incident to services.
(i) In general.
(ii) Definition of services.
(iii) De minimis property provided incident to services.
(12) De minimis rule for certain producers with total indirect costs of $200,000 or less.
(13) Exception for the origination of loans.
(c) General operation of section 263A.
(1) Allocations.
(2) Otherwise deductible.
(3) Capitalize.
(4) Recovery of capitalized costs.
(5) Costs allocable only to property sold.
(d) Definitions.
(1) Self-constructed assets.
(2) Section 471 costs.
(i) In general.
(ii) Inclusion of direct costs.
(A) In general.
(B) Allocation of direct costs.
(iii) Alternative method to determine amounts of section 471 costs by using taxpayer's financial statement.
(A) In general.
(B) Book-to-tax adjustments.
(C) Exclusion of certain financial statement items.
(D) Changes in method of accounting.
(E) Examples.
(iv) De minimis rule exceptions for certain direct costs.
(A) In general.
(B) De minimis rule for certain direct labor costs.
(C) De minimis rule for certain direct material costs.
(D) Taxpayers using a historic absorption ratio.
(E) Examples.
(v) Safe harbor method for certain variances and under or over-applied burdens.
(A) In general.
(B) Consistency requirement.
(C) Allocation of variances and under or over-applied burdens between production and preproduction costs under the modified simplified production method.
(D) Allocation of variances and under or over-applied burdens between storage and handling costs absorption ratio and purchasing costs absorption ratio under the simplified resale method.
(E) Method of accounting.
(vi) Removal of section 471 costs.
(vii) Method changes.
(3) Additional section 263A costs.
(i) In general.
(ii) Negative adjustments.
(A) In general.
(B) Exception for certain taxpayers removing costs from section 471 costs.
(C) No negative adjustments for cash or trade discounts.
(D) No negative adjustments for certain expenses.
(E) Consistency requirement for negative adjustments.
(4) Section 263A costs.
(5) Classification of costs.
(6) Financial statement.
(e) Types of costs subject to capitalization.
(1) In general.
(2) Direct costs.
(i) Producers.
(A) Direct material costs.
(B) Direct labor costs.
(ii) Resellers.
(3) Indirect costs.
(i) In general.
(ii) Examples of indirect costs required to be capitalized.
(A) Indirect labor costs.
(B) Officers' compensation.
(C) Pension and other related costs.
(D) Employee benefit expenses.
(E) Indirect material costs.
(F) Purchasing costs.
(G) Handling costs.
(H) Storage costs.
(I) Cost recovery.
(J) Depletion.
(K) Rent.
(L) Taxes.
(M) Insurance.
(N) Utilities.
(O) Repairs and maintenance.
(P) Engineering and design costs.
(Q) Spoilage.
(R) Tools and equipment.
(S) Quality control.
(T) Bidding costs.
(U) Licensing and franchise costs.
(V) Interest.
(W) Capitalizable service costs.
(iii) Indirect costs not capitalized.
(A) Selling and distribution costs.
(B) Research and experimental expenditures.
(C) Section 179 costs.
(D) Section 165 losses.
(E) Cost recovery allowances on temporarily idle equipment and facilities.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Examples.
(F) Taxes assessed on the basis of income.
(G) Strike expenses.
(H) Warranty and product liability costs.
(I) On-site storage costs.
(J) Unsuccessful bidding expenses.
(K) Deductible service costs.
(4) Service costs.
(i) Introduction.
(A) Definition of service costs.
(B) Definition of service departments.
(ii) Various service cost categories.
(A) Capitalizable service costs.
(B) Deductible service costs.
(C) Mixed service costs.
(iii) Examples of capitalizable service costs.
(iv) Examples of deductible service costs.
(f) Cost allocation methods.
(1) Introduction.
(2) Specific identification method.
(3) Burden rate and standard cost methods.
(i) Burden rate method.
(A) In general.
(B) Development of burden rates.
(C) Operation of the burden rate method.
(ii) Standard cost method.
(A) In general.
(B) Treatment of variances.
(4) Reasonable allocation methods.
(g) Allocating categories of costs.
(1) Direct materials.
(2) Direct labor.
(3) Indirect costs.
(4) Service costs.
(i) In general.
(ii) De minimis rule.
(iii) Methods for allocating mixed service costs.
(A) Direct reallocation method.
(B) Step-allocation method.
(C) Examples.
(iv) Illustrations of mixed service cost allocations using reasonable factors or relationships.
(A) Security services.
(B) Legal services.
(C) Centralized payroll services.
(D) Centralized data processing services.
(E) Engineering and design services.
(F) Safety engineering services.
(v) Accounting method change.
(h) Simplified service cost method.
(1) Introduction.
(2) Eligible property.
(i) In general.
(A) Inventory property.
(B) Non-inventory property held for sale.
(C) Certain self-constructed assets.
(D) Self-constructed assets produced on a repetitive basis.
(ii) Election to exclude self-constructed assets.
(3) General allocation formula.
(4) Labor-based allocation ratio.
(5) Production cost allocation ratio.
(6) Definition of total mixed service costs.
(7) Costs allocable to more than one business.
(8) De minimis rule.
(9) Separate election.
(i) [Reserved]
(j) Exemption for certain small business taxpayers.
(1) In general.
(2) Application of the section 448(c) gross receipts test.
(i) In general.
(ii) Gross receipts of individuals, etc.
(iii) Partners and S corporation shareholders.
(iv) Examples.
(A) Example 1
(B) Example 2
(3) Change in method of accounting.
(i) In general.
(ii) Prior section 263A method change.
(k) Special rules
(1) Costs provided by a related person.
(i) In general
(ii) Exceptions
(2) Optional capitalization of period costs.
(i) In general.
(ii) Period costs eligible for capitalization.
(3) Trade or business application
(4) Transfers with a principal purpose of tax avoidance. [Reserved]
(l) Change in method of accounting.
(1) In general.
(2) Scope limitations.
(3) Audit protection.
(4) Section 481(a) adjustment.
(5) Time for requesting change.
(m) Effective/applicability date.
(1) In general.
(2) Mixed service costs; self-constructed tangible personal property produced on a routine and repetitive basis.
(3) Costs allocable to property sold; indirect costs; licensing and franchise costs.
(4) Materials and supplies.
(5) Definitions of section 471 costs and additional section 263A costs.
(6) Exemption for certain small business taxpayers.

# § 1.263A-2 Rules Relating to Property Produced by the Taxpayer.
(a) In general.
(1) Produce.
(i) In general.
(ii) Ownership.
(A) General rule.
(B) Property produced for the taxpayer under a contract.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Definition of contract.
(C) Home construction contracts.
(2) Tangible personal property.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Intellectual or creative property.
(A) Intellectual or creative property that is tangible personal property.
(
1
) Books.
(
2
) Sound recordings.
(B) Intellectual or creative property that is not tangible personal property.
(
1
) Evidences of value.
(
2
) Property provided incident to services.
(3) Costs required to be capitalized by producers.
(i) In general.
(ii) Pre-production costs.
(iii) Post-production costs.
(4) Practical capacity concept.
(5) Taxpayers required to capitalize costs under this section.
(b) Simplified production method.
(1) Introduction.
(2) Eligible property.
(i) In general.
(A) Inventory property.
(B) Non-inventory property held for sale.
(C) Certain self-constructed assets.
(D) Self-constructed assets produced on a repetitive basis.
(ii) Election to exclude self-constructed assets.
(3) Simplified production method without historic absorption ratio election.
(i) General allocation formula.
(ii) Definitions.
(A) Absorption ratio.
(
1
) Additional section 263A costs incurred during the taxable year.
(
2
) Section 471 costs incurred during the taxable year.
(B) Section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end.
(C) Costs allocable only to property sold.
(iii) LIFO taxpayers electing the simplified production method.
(A) In general.
(B) LIFO increment.
(C) LIFO decrement.
(iv) De minimis rule for producers with total indirect costs of $200,000 or less.
(A) In general.
(B) Related party and aggregation rules.
(v) Examples.
(4) Simplified production method with historic absorption ratio election.
(i) In general.
(ii) Operating rules and definitions.
(A) Historic absorption ratio.
(B) Test period.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Updated test period.
(C) Qualifying period.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Extension of qualifying period.
(iii) Method of accounting.
(A) Adoption and use.
(B) Revocation of election.
(iv) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(A) Reporting.
(B) Recordkeeping.
(v) Transition rules.
(A) Transition to elect historic absorption ratio.
(B) Transition to revoke historic absorption ratio.
(vi) Example.
(c) Modified simplified production method.
(1) Introduction.
(2) Eligible property.
(i) In general.
(ii) Election to exclude self-constructed assets.
(3) Modified simplified production method without historic absorption ratio election.
(i) General allocation formula.
(A) In general.
(B) Effect of allocation.
(ii) Definitions.
(A) Direct material costs.
(B) Pre-production absorption ratio.
(
1
) Pre-production additional section 263A costs.
(
2
) Pre-production section 471 costs.
(C) Pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end.
(D) Production absorption ratio.
(
1
) Production additional section 263A costs.
(
2
) Residual pre-production additional section 263A costs.
(
3
) Production section 471 costs.
(
4
) Direct materials adjustment.
(E) Production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end.
(F) Costs allocated to property sold.
(iii) Allocable mixed service costs.
(A) In general.
(B) Taxpayer using the simplified service cost method.
(C) De minimis rule.
(iv) LIFO taxpayers electing the modified simplified production method.
(A) In general.
(B) LIFO increment.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Combined absorption ratio defined.
(C) LIFO decrement.
(v) De minimis rule for producers with total indirect costs of $200,000 or less.
(vi) Examples.
(4) Modified simplified production method with historic absorption ratio election.
(i) In general.
(ii) Operating rules and definitions.
(A) Pre-production historic absorption ratio.
(B) Production historic absorption ratio.
(iii) LIFO taxpayers making the historic absorption ratio election.
(A) In general.
(B) Combined historic absorption ratio.
(
1
) Total allocable additional section 263A costs incurred during the test period.
(
2
) Total section 471 costs remaining on hand at each year end of the test period.
(iv) Extension of qualifying period.
(v) Examples.
(d) Additional simplified methods for producers.
(e) Cross reference.
(f) Change in method of accounting.
(1) In general.
(2) Scope limitations.
(3) Audit protection.
(4) Section 481(a) adjustment.
(5) Time for requesting change.
(g) Effective/applicability date.

# § 1.263A-3 Rules Relating to Property Acquired for Resale
(a) Capitalization rules for property acquired for resale.
(1) In general.
(2) Resellers with production activities.
(i) In general.
(ii) Exemption for small business taxpayers.
(iii) De minimis production activities.
(A) In general.
(B) Example.
(3) Resellers with property produced under a contract.
(4) Use of the simplified resale method.
(i) In general.
(ii) Resellers with de minimis production activities.
(iii) Resellers with property produced under a contract.
(iv) Application of simplified resale method.
(5)
De minimis
production activities.
(i) In general.
(ii) Definition of gross receipts to determine
de minimis
production activities.
(iii) Example.
(b) [Reserved].
(c) Purchasing, handling, and storage costs.
(1) In general.
(2) Costs attributable to purchasing, handling, and storage.
(3) Purchasing costs.
(i) In general.
(ii) Determination of whether personnel are engaged in purchasing activities.
(A)
1/3
-
2/3
rule for allocating labor costs.
(B) Example.
(4) Handling costs.
(i) In general.
(ii) Processing costs.
(iii) Assembling costs.
(iv) Repackaging costs.
(v) Transportation costs.
(vi) Costs not considered handling costs.
(A) Distribution costs.
(B) Delivery of custom-ordered items.
(C) Repackaging after sale occurs.
(5) Storage costs.
(i) In general.
(ii) Definitions.
(A) On-site storage facility.
(B) Retail sales facility.
(C) An integral part of a retail sales facility.
(D) On-site sales.
(E) Retail customer.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Certain non-retail customers treated as retail customers.
(F) Off-site storage facility.
(G) Dual-function storage facility.
(iii) Treatment of storage costs incurred at a dual-function storage facility.
(A) In general.
(B) Dual-function storage facility allocation ratio.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Illustration of ratio allocation.
(
3
) Appropriate adjustments for other uses of a dual-function storage facility.
(C) De minimis 90-10 rule for dual-function storage facilities.
(iv) Costs not attributable to an off-site storage facility.
(v) Examples.
(d) Simplified resale method.
(1) Introduction.
(2) Eligible property.
(3) Simplified resale method without historic absorption ratio election.
(i) General allocation formula.
(A) In general.
(B) Effect of allocation.
(C) Definitions.
(
1
) Combined absorption ratio.
(
2
) Section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end.
(
3
) Costs allocable only to property sold.
(D) Storage and handling costs absorption ratio.
(E) Purchasing costs absorption ratio.
(F) Allocable mixed service costs.
(ii) LIFO taxpayers electing simplified resale method.
(A) In general.
(B) LIFO increment.
(C) LIFO decrement.
(iii) Permissible variations of the simplified resale method.
(iv) Examples.
(4) Simplified resale method with historic absorption ratio election.
(i) In general.
(ii) Operating rules and definitions.
(A) Historic absorption ratio.
(B) Test period.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Updated test period.
(C) Qualifying period.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Extension of qualifying period.
(iii) Method of accounting.
(A) Adoption and use.
(B) Revocation of election.
(iv) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(A) Reporting.
(B) Recordkeeping.
(v) Transition rules.
(A) Transition to elect historic absorption ratio.
(B) Transition to revoke historic absorption ratio.
(vi) Example.
(5) Additional simplified methods for resellers.
(e) Cross reference.
(f) Effective/applicability date.

# § 1.263A-4 Rules for property produced in a farming business.
(a) Introduction.
(1) In general.
(2) Exception.
(i) In general.
(ii) Tax shelter.
(A) In general.
(B) Presumption.
(iii) Examples.
(3) Exemption for certain small business taxpayers.
(4) Costs required to be capitalized or inventoried under another provision.
(5) Farming business.
(i) In general.
(A) Plant.
(B) Animal.
(ii) Incidental activities.
(A) In general.
(B) Activities that are not incidental.
(iii) Examples.
(b) Application of section 263A to property produced in a farming business.
(1) In general.
(i) Plants.
(ii) Animals.
(2) Preproductive period.
(i) Plant.
(A) In general.
(B) Applicability of section 263A.
(C) Actual preproductive period.
(
1
) Beginning of the preproductive period.
(
2
) End of the preproductive period.
(
i
) In general.
(
ii
) Marketable quantities.
(D) Examples.
(ii) Animal.
(A) Beginning of the preproductive period.
(B) End of the preproductive period.
(C) Allocation of costs between animal and first yield.
(c) Inventory methods.
(1) In general.
(2) Available for property used in a trade or business.
(3) Exclusion of property to which section 263A does not apply.
(d) Election not to have section 263A apply under section 263A(d)(3).
(1) Introduction.
(2) Availability of the election.
(3) Time and manner of making the election.
(i) Automatic election.
(ii) Nonautomatic election.
(4) Special rules.
(i) Section 1245 treatment.
(ii) Required use of alternative depreciation system.
(iii) Related person.
(A) In general.
(B) Members of family.
(5) Revocation of section 263A(d)(3) election to permit exemption under section 263A(i).
(6) Change from applying exemption under section 263A(i) to making a section 263A(d)(3) election.
(7) Examples.
(e) Exception for certain costs resulting from casualty losses.
(1) In general.
(2) Ownership.
(3) Examples.
(4) Special rule for citrus and almond groves.
(i) In general.
(ii) Example.
(5) Special temporary rule for citrus plants lost by reason of casualty.
(f) Change in method of accounting.
(1) Effective date.
(2) Change in method of accounting.
(g) Effective date.
(1) In general.
(2) Changes made by Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 115-97).

# § 1.263A-7 Changing a method of accounting under section 263A.
(a) Introduction.
(1) Purpose.
(2) Taxpayers that adopt a method of accounting under section 263A.
(3) Taxpayers that change a method of accounting under section 263A.
(4) Applicability dates.
(i) In general.
(ii) Changes made by Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 115-97).
(5) Definition of change in method of accounting.
(b) Rules applicable to a change in method of accounting.
(1) General rules.
(2) Special rules.
(i) Ordering rules when multiple changes in method of accounting occur in the year of change.
(A) In general.
(B) Exceptions to the general ordering rule.
(
1
) Change from the LIFO inventory method.
(
2
) Change from the specific goods LIFO inventory method.
(
3
) Change in overall method of accounting.
(
4
) Change in method of accounting for depreciation.
(ii) Adjustment required by section 481(a).
(iii) Base year.
(A) Need for a new base year.
(
1
) Facts and circumstances revaluation method used.
(
2
) 3-year average method used.
(
i
) Simplified method not used.
(
ii
) Simplified method used.
(B) Computing a new base year.
(c) Inventory.
(1) Need for adjustments.
(2) Revaluing beginning inventory.
(i) In general.
(ii) Methods to revalue inventory.
(iii) Facts and circumstances revaluation method.
(A) In general.
(B) Exception.
(C) Estimates and procedures allowed.
(D) Use by dollar-value LIFO taxpayers.
(E) Examples.
(iv) Weighted average method.
(A) In general.
(B) Weighted average method for FIFO taxpayers.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Example.
(C) Weighted average method for specific goods LIFO taxpayers.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Example.
(D) Adjustments to inventory costs from prior years.
(v) 3-year average method.
(A) In general.
(B) Consecutive year requirement.
(C) Example.
(D) Short taxable years.
(E) Adjustments to inventory costs from prior years.
(
1
) General rule.
(
2
) Examples of costs eligible for restatement adjustment procedure.
(F) Restatement adjustment procedure.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Examples of restatement adjustment procedure.
(3) Intercompany items.
(i) Revaluing intercompany transactions.
(ii) Example.
(iii) Availability of revaluation methods.
(4) Anti-abuse rule.
(i) In general.
(ii) Deemed avoidance of this section.
(A) Scope.
(B) General rule.
(iii) Election to use transferor's LIFO layers.
(iv) Tax avoidance intent not required.
(v) Related corporation.
(d) Non-inventory property.
(1) Need for adjustments.
(2) Revaluing property.

# § 1.263A-8 Requirement to capitalize interest.
(a) In general.
(1) General rule.
(2) Treatment of interest required to be capitalized.
(3) Methods of accounting under section 263A(f).
(4) Special definitions.
(i) Related person.
(ii) Placed in service.
(b) Designated property.
(1) In general.
(2) Special rules.
(i) Application of thresholds.
(ii) Relevant activities and costs.
(iii) Production period and cost of production.
(3) Excluded property.
(4) De minimis rule.
(i) In general.
(ii) Determination of total production expenditures.
(c) Definition of real property.
(1) In general.
(2) Unsevered natural products of land.
(3) Inherently permanent structures.
(4) Machinery.
(i) Treatment.
(ii) Certain factors not determinative.
(d) Production.
(1) Definition of produce.
(2) Property produced under a contract.
(i) Customer.
(ii) Contractor.
(iii) Definition of a contract.
(iv) Determination of whether thresholds are satisfied.
(A) Customer.
(B) Contractor.
(v) Exclusion for property subject to long-term contract rules.
(3) Improvements to existing property.
(i) In general.
(ii) Real property.
(iii) Tangible personal property.

# § 1.263A-9 The avoided cost method.
(a) In general.
(1) Description.
(2) Overview.
(i) In general.
(ii) Rules that apply in determining amounts.
(3) Definitions of interest and incurred.
(4) Definition of eligible debt.
(b) Traced debt amount.
(1) General rule.
(2) Identification and definition of traced debt.
(3) Example.
(c) Excess expenditure amount.
(1) General rule.
(2) Interest required to be capitalized.
(3) Example.
(4) Treatment of interest subject to a deferral provision.
(5) Definitions.
(i) Nontraced debt.
(A) Defined.
(B) Example.
(ii) Average excess expenditures.
(A) General rule.
(B) Example.
(iii) Weighted average interest rate.
(A) Determination of rate.
(B) Interest incurred on nontraced debt.
(C) Average nontraced debt.
(D) Special rules if taxpayer has no nontraced debt or rate is contingent.
(6) Examples.
(7) Special rules where the excess expenditure amount exceeds incurred interest.
(i) Allocation of total incurred interest to units.
(ii) Application of related person rules to average excess expenditures.
(iii) Special rule for corporations.
(d) Election not to trace debt.
(1) General rule.
(2) Example.
(e) Election to use external rate.
(1) In general.
(2) Eligible taxpayer.
(f) Selection of computation period and measurement dates and application of averaging conventions.
(1) Computation period.
(i) In general.
(ii) Method of accounting.
(iii) Production period beginning or ending during the computation period.
(2) Measurement dates.
(i) In general.
(ii) Measurement period.
(iii) Measurement dates on which accumulated production expenditures must be taken into account.
(iv) More frequent measurement dates.
(3) Examples.
(g) Special rules.
(1) Ordering rules.
(i) Provisions preempted by section 263A(f).
(ii) Deferral provisions applied before this section.
(2) Application of section 263A(f) to deferred interest.
(i) In general.
(ii) Capitalization of deferral amount.
(iii) Deferred capitalization.
(iv) Substitute capitalization.
(A) General rule.
(B) Capitalization of amount carried forward.
(C) Method of accounting.
(v) Examples.
(3) Simplified inventory method.
(i) In general.
(ii) Segmentation of inventory.
(A) General rule.
(B) Example.
(iii) Aggregate interest capitalization amount.
(A) Computation period and weighted average interest rate.
(B) Computation of the tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount.
(C) Coordination with other interest capitalization computations.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Deferred interest.
(
3
) Other coordinating provisions.
(D) Treatment of increases or decreases in the aggregate interest capitalization amount.
(E) Example.
(iv) Method of accounting.
(4) Financial accounting method disregarded.
(5) Treatment of intercompany transactions.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Special rule for consolidated group with limited outside borrowing.
(iii) Example.
(6) Notional principal contracts and other derivatives. [Reserved]
(7) 15-day repayment rule.

# § 1.263A-10 Unit of property.
(a) In general.
(b) Units of real property.
(1) In general.
(2) Functional interdependence.
(3) Common features.
(4) Allocation of costs to unit.
(5) Treatment of costs when a common feature is included in a unit of real property.
(i) General rule.
(ii) Production activity not undertaken on benefitted property.
(A) Direct production activity not undertaken.
(
1
) In general.
(
2
) Land attributable to a benefitted property.
(B) Suspension of direct production activity after clearing and grading undertaken.
(
1
) General rule.
(
2
) Accumulated production expenditures.
(iii) Common feature placed in service before the end of production of a benefitted property.
(iv) Benefitted property sold before production completed on common feature.
(v) Benefitted property placed in service before production completed on common feature.
(6) Examples.
(c) Units of tangible personal property.
(d) Treatment of installations.

# § 1.263A-11 Accumulated production expenditures.
(a) General rule.
(b) When costs are first taken into account.
(1) In general.
(2) Dedication rule for materials and supplies.
(c) Property produced under a contract.
(1) Customer.
(2) Contractor.
(d) Property used to produce designated property.
(1) In general.
(2) Example.
(3) Excluded equipment and facilities.
(e) Improvements.
(1) General rule.
(2) De minimis rule.
(f) Mid-production purchases.
(g) Related person costs.
(h) Installation.

# § 1.263A-12 Production period.
(a) In general.
(b) Related person activities.
(c) Beginning of production period.
(1) In general.
(2) Real property.
(3) Tangible personal property.
(d) End of production period.
(1) In general.
(2) Special rules.
(3) Sequential production or delivery.
(4) Examples.
(e) Physical production activities.
(1) In general.
(2) Illustrations.
(f) Activities not considered physical production.
(1) Planning and design.
(2) Incidental repairs.
(g) Suspension of production period.
(1) In general.
(2) Special rule.
(3) Method of accounting.
(4) Example.

# § 1.263A-13 Oil and gas activities.
(a) In general.
(b) Generally applicable rules.
(1) Beginning of production period.
(i) Onshore activities.
(ii) Offshore activities.
(2) End of production period.
(3) Accumulated production expenditures.
(i) Costs included.
(ii) Improvement unit.
(c) Special rules when definite plan not established.
(1) In general.
(2) Oil and gas units.
(i) First productive well unit.
(ii) Subsequent units.
(3) Beginning of production period.
(i) First productive well unit.
(ii) Subsequent wells.
(4) End of production period.
(5) Accumulated production expenditures.
(i) First productive well unit.
(ii) Subsequent well unit.
(6) Allocation of interest capitalized with respect to first productive well unit.
(7) Examples.

# § 1.263A-14 Rules for related persons.

# § 1.263A-15 Effective dates, transitional rules, and anti-abuse rule.
(a) Effective dates.
(b) Transitional rule for accumulated production expenditures.
(1) In general.
(2) Property used to produce designated property.
(c) Anti-abuse rule.
[T.D. 8482, 58 FR 42207, Aug. 9, 1993, as amended by T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67196, Dec. 29, 1994; 60 FR 16574, Mar. 31, 1995; T.D. 8728, 62 FR 42054, Aug. 5, 1997; T.D. 8897, 65 FR 50643, Aug. 21, 2000; T.D. 9636, 78 FR 57745, Sept. 19, 2013; T.D. 9652, 79 FR 2096, Jan. 13, 2014; T.D. 9843, 83 FR 58485, Nov. 20, 2018; T.D, 9942, 86 FR 264, Jan. 5, 2021; 86 FR 32185, June 17, 2021]
§ 1.263A-1
Uniform capitalization of costs.
(a)
Introduction
—(1)
In general.
The regulations under §§ 1.263A-1 through 1.263A-6 provide guidance to taxpayers that are required to capitalize certain costs under section 263A. These regulations generally apply to all costs required to be capitalized under section 263A except for interest that must be capitalized under section 263A(f) and the regulations thereunder. Statutory or regulatory exceptions may provide that section 263A does not apply to certain activities or costs; however, those activities or costs may nevertheless be subject to capitalization requirements under other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and regulations.
(2)
Applicability dates.
(i) In general, this section and §§ 1.263A-2 and 1.263A-3 apply to costs incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1993. In the case of property that is inventory in the hands of the taxpayer, however, these sections are applicable for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1993. The small business taxpayer exception described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and set forth in paragraph (j) of this section is applicable for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. Changes in methods of accounting necessary as a result of the rules in this section and §§ 1.263A-2 and 1.263A-3 must be made under terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner. Under these terms and conditions, the principles of § 1.263A-7 must be applied in revaluing inventory property.
(ii) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1994, taxpayers must take reasonable positions on their federal income tax returns when applying section 263A. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(iii), a reasonable position is a position consistent with the temporary regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, notices, and announcements concerning section 263A applicable in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1994. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter.
(3)
General scope
—(i)
Property to which section 263A applies.
Taxpayers subject to section 263A must capitalize all direct costs and certain indirect costs properly allocable to—
(A) Real property and tangible personal property produced by the taxpayer; and
(B) Real property and personal property described in section 1221(1), which is acquired by the taxpayer for resale.
(ii)
Property produced.
Taxpayers that produce real property and tangible personal property (producers) must capitalize all the direct costs of producing the property and the property's properly allocable share of indirect costs (described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (3) of this section), regardless of whether the property is sold or used in the taxpayer's trade or business. See § 1.263A-2 for rules relating to producers.
(iii)
Property acquired for resale.
Retailers, wholesalers, and other taxpayers that acquire property described in section 1221(1) for resale (resellers) must capitalize the direct costs of acquiring the property and the property's properly allocable share of indirect costs (described in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) and (3) of this section). See § 1.263A-3 for rules relating to resellers. See also section 263A(b)(2)(B), which excepts from section 263A personal property acquired for resale by a small reseller.
(iv)
Inventories valued at market.
Section 263A does not apply to inventories valued at market under either the market method or the lower of cost or market method if the market valuation used by the taxpayer generally equals the property's fair market value. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(3)(iv), the term fair market value means the price at which the taxpayer sells its inventory to its customers (e.g., as in the market value definition provided in § 1.471-4(b)) less, if applicable, the direct cost of disposing of the inventory. However, section 263A does apply in determining the market value of any inventory for which market is determined with reference to replacement cost or reproduction cost. See §§ 1.471-4 and 1.471-5.
(v)
Property produced in a farming business.
Section 263A generally requires taxpayers engaged in a farming business to capitalize certain costs. See sections 263A(d) and 263A(e) and § 1.263A-4 for rules relating to taxpayers engaged in a farming business.
(vi)
Creative property.
Section 263A generally requires taxpayers engaged in the production and resale of creative property to capitalize certain costs.
(vii)
Property produced or property acquired for resale by foreign persons.
Section 263A generally applies to foreign persons.
(b)
Exceptions
— (1)
Small business taxpayers.
For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, see section 263A(i) and paragraph (j) of this section for an exemption for certain small business taxpayers from the requirements of section 263A.
(2)
Long-term contracts.
Except for certain home construction contracts described in section 460(e)(1), section 263A does not apply to any property produced by the taxpayer pursuant to a long-term contract as defined in section 460(f), regardless of whether the taxpayer uses an inventory method to account for such production.
(3)
Costs incurred in certain farming businesses.
See section 263A(d) for an exception for costs paid or incurred in certain farming businesses. See § 1.263A-4 for specific rules relating to taxpayers engaged in the trade or business of farming.
(4)
Costs incurred in raising, harvesting, or growing timber.
See section 263A(c)(5) for an exception for costs paid or incurred in raising, harvesting, or growing timber and certain ornamental trees. See § 1.263A-4, however, for rules relating to taxpayers producing certain trees to which section 263A applies.
(5)
Qualified creative expenses.
See section 263A(h) for an exception for qualified creative expenses paid or incurred by certain free-lance authors, photographers, and artists.
(6)
Certain not-for-profit activities.
See section 263A(c)(1) for an exception for property produced by a taxpayer for use by the taxpayer other than in a trade or business or an activity conducted for profit. This exception does not apply, however, to property produced by an exempt organization in connection with its unrelated trade or business activities.
(7)
Intangible drilling and development costs.
See section 263A(c)(3) for an exception for intangible drilling and development costs. Additionally, section 263A does not apply to any amount allowable as a deduction under section 59(e) with respect to qualified expenditures under sections 263(c), 616(a), or 617(a).
(8)
Natural gas acquired for resale.
Under this paragraph (b)(8), section 263A does not apply to any costs incurred by a taxpayer relating to natural gas acquired for resale to the extent such costs would otherwise be allocable to cushion gas.
(i)
Cushion gas.
Cushion gas is the portion of gas stored in an underground storage facility or reservoir that is required to maintain the level of pressure necessary for operation of the facility. However, section 263A applies to costs incurred by a taxpayer relating to natural gas acquired for resale to the extent such costs are properly allocable to emergency gas.
(ii)
Emergency gas.
Emergency gas is natural gas stored in an underground storage facility or reservoir for use during periods of unusually heavy customer demand.
(9)
Research and experimental expenditures.
See section 263A(c)(2) for an exception for any research and experimental expenditure allowable as a deduction under section 174 or the regulations thereunder. Additionally, section 263A does not apply to any amount allowable as a deduction under section 59(e) with respect to qualified expenditures under section 174.
(10)
Certain property that is substantially constructed.
Section 263A does not apply to any property produced by a taxpayer for use in its trade or business if substantial construction occurred before March 1, 1986.
(i) For purposes of this section, substantial construction is deemed to have occurred if the lesser of—
(A) 10 percent of the total estimated costs of construction; or
(B) The greater of $10 million or 2 percent of the total estimated costs of construction, was incurred before March 1, 1986.
(ii) For purposes of the provision in paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section, the total estimated costs of construction shall be determined by reference to a reasonable estimate, on or before March 1, 1986, of such amount. Assume, for example, that on March 1, 1986, the estimated costs of constructing a facility were $150 million. Assume that before March 1, 1986, $12 million of construction costs had been incurred. Based on the above facts, substantial construction would be deemed to have occurred before March 1, 1986, because $12 million (the costs of construction incurred before such date) is greater than $10 million (the lesser of $15 million; or the greater of $10 million or $3 million). For purposes of this provision, construction costs are defined as those costs incurred after construction has commenced at the site of the property being constructed (unless the property will not be located on land and, therefore, the initial construction of the property must begin at a location other than the intended site). For example, in the case of a building, construction commences when work begins on the building, such as the excavation of the site, the pouring of pads for the building, or the driving of foundation pilings into the ground. Preliminary activities such as project engineering and architectural design do not constitute the commencement of construction, nor are such costs considered construction costs, for purposes of this paragraph (b)(10).
(11)
Certain property provided incident to services
—(i)
In general.
Under this paragraph (b)(11), section 263A does not apply to property that is provided to a client (or customer) incident to the provision of services by the taxpayer if the property provided to the client is—
(A) De minimis in amount; and
(B) Not inventory in the hands of the service provider.
(ii)
Definition of services.
For purposes of this paragraph (b)(11), services is defined with reference to its ordinary and accepted meaning under federal income tax principles. In determining whether a taxpayer is a bona-fide service provider under this paragraph (b)(11), the nature of the taxpayer's trade or business and the facts and circumstances surrounding the taxpayer's trade or business activities must be considered. Examples of taxpayers qualifying as service providers under this paragraph include taxpayers performing services in the fields of health, law, engineering, architecture, accounting, actuarial science, performing arts, or consulting.
(iii)
De minimis property provided incident to services.
In determining whether property provided to a client by a service provider is de minimis in amount, all facts and circumstances, such as the nature of the taxpayer's trade or business and the volume of its service activities in the trade or business, must be considered. A significant factor in making this determination is the relationship between the acquisition or direct materials costs of the property that is provided to clients and the price that the taxpayer charges its clients for its services and the property. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(11), if the acquisition or direct materials cost of the property provided to a client incident to the services is less than or equal to five percent of the price charged to the client for the services and property, the property is de minimis. If the acquisition or direct materials cost of the property exceeds five percent of the price charged for the services and property, the property
may be de minimis if additional facts and circumstances so indicate.
(12)
De minimis rule for certain producers with total indirect costs of $200,000 or less.
See § 1.263A-2(b)(3)(iv) for a de minimis rule that treats producers with total indirect costs of $200,000 or less as having no additional section 263A costs (as defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section) for purposes of the simplified production method.
(13)
Exception for the origination of loans.
For purposes of section 263A(b)(2)(A), the origination of loans is not considered the acquisition of intangible property for resale. (But section 263A(b)(2)(A) does include the acquisition by a taxpayer of pre-existing loans from other persons for resale.)
(c)
General operation of section 263A
—(1)
Allocations.
Under section 263A, taxpayers must capitalize their direct costs and a properly allocable share of their indirect costs to property produced or property acquired for resale. In order to determine these capitalizable costs, taxpayers must allocate or apportion costs to various activities, including production or resale activities. After section 263A costs are allocated to the appropriate production or resale activities, these costs are generally allocated to the items of property produced or property acquired for resale during the taxable year and capitalized to the items that remain on hand at the end of the taxable year. See however, the simplified production method, the modified simplified production method, and the simplified resale method in §§ 1.263A-2(b) and (c) and 1.263A-3(d).
(2)
Otherwise deductible.
(i) Any cost which (but for section 263A and the regulations thereunder) may not be taken into account in computing taxable income for any taxable year is not treated as a cost properly allocable to property produced or acquired for resale under section 263A and the regulations thereunder. Thus, for example, if a business meal deduction is limited by section 274(n) to 80 percent of the cost of the meal, the amount properly allocable to property produced or acquired for resale under section 263A is also limited to 80 percent of the cost of the meal.
(ii) The amount of any cost required to be capitalized under section 263A may not be included in inventory or charged to capital accounts or basis any earlier than the taxable year during which the amount is incurred within the meaning of § 1.446-1(c)(1)(ii).
(3)
Capitalize.
Capitalize means, in the case of property that is inventory in the hands of a taxpayer, to include in inventory costs and, in the case of other property, to charge to a capital account or basis.
(4)
Recovery of capitalized costs.
Costs that are capitalized under section 263A are recovered through depreciation, amortization, cost of goods sold, or by an adjustment to basis at the time the property is used, sold, placed in service, or otherwise disposed of by the taxpayer. Cost recovery is determined by the applicable Internal Revenue Code and regulation provisions relating to use, sale, or disposition of property.
(5)
Costs allocable to property sold.
A cost that is allocated under this section, § 1.263A-2, or § 1.263A-3 entirely to property sold must be included in cost of goods sold and may not be included in determining the cost of goods on hand at the end of the taxable year.
(d)
Definitions
—(1)
Self-constructed assets.
Self-constructed assets are assets produced by a taxpayer for use by the taxpayer in its trade or business. Self-constructed assets are subject to section 263A.
(2)
Section 471 costs
—(i)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section, for purposes of section 263A, a taxpayer's section 471 costs are the types of costs, other than interest, that a taxpayer capitalizes to property produced or property acquired for resale in its financial statement. Thus, although section 471 applies only to inventories, section 471 costs include any non-inventory costs, other than interest, that a taxpayer capitalizes to, or includes in acquisition or production costs of, property produced or property acquired for resale in its financial statement. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, a taxpayer determines the amounts of section 471 costs by using
the amounts of such costs that are incurred in the taxable year for federal income tax purposes.
(ii)
Inclusion of direct costs
—(A)
In general.
Notwithstanding the last sentence of paragraph (g)(2) of this section, a taxpayer's section 471 costs must include all direct costs of property produced and property acquired for resale, whether or not a taxpayer capitalizes these costs to property produced or property acquired for resale in its financial statement. See paragraph (e)(2) of this section for a description of direct costs of property produced and property acquired for resale.
(B)
Allocation of direct costs.
Except for any direct costs that are treated as additional section 263A costs under paragraphs (d)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section, a taxpayer's direct costs of property produced and property acquired for resale must be allocated using a method provided in paragraph (f) of this section.
(iii)
Alternative method to determine amounts of section 471 costs by using taxpayer's financial statement
—(A)
In general.
In lieu of determining the amounts of section 471 costs under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, a taxpayer described in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section may determine the amounts of section 471 costs by using the amounts of such costs that are incurred in the taxable year in its financial statement using the taxpayer's financial statement methods of accounting if the taxpayer's financial statement is described in paragraph (d)(6)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section. If the taxpayer's financial statement is described only in paragraph (d)(6)(iv) of this section, the taxpayer may not use the alternative method described in this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) and must use the method described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section to determine its amounts of section 471 costs. A taxpayer using the alternative method described in this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) must remove all section 471 costs described in paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section, if any, by including negative adjustments in additional section 263A costs. A taxpayer using the alternative method described in this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) applies the method to all of its section 471 costs, including costs described under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii), (iv), (v), and (vi) of this section.
(B)
Book-to-tax adjustments.
A taxpayer using the alternative method described in this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) must include as additional section 263A costs all negative and positive adjustments required to be made as a result of differences in the book and tax amounts of the taxpayer's section 471 costs, including adjustments for direct costs required to be added to section 471 costs under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, and costs removed from section 471 costs under paragraphs (d)(2)(vi) and (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. In addition, the taxpayer must include as additional section 263A costs all negative and positive adjustments required to be made as a result of differences in the book and tax amounts of section 471 costs that are treated as additional section 263A costs (for example, de minimis direct costs described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section and certain variances and under or over-applied burdens described in paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section). For purposes of determining the negative and positive adjustments required to be made as a result of differences in book and tax amounts for a taxpayer using the burden rate or standard cost methods described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the taxpayer compares the actual amount of the cost incurred in the taxable year for federal income tax purposes to the actual amount of the cost incurred in the taxable year in its financial statement using the taxpayer's financial statement methods of accounting, regardless of how the taxpayer treats its variances or under or over-applied burdens.
(C)
Exclusion of certain financial statement items.
A taxpayer that determines the amounts of section 471 costs under this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) may not include any financial statement write-downs, reserves, or other financial statement valuation adjustments when determining the amounts of its section 471 costs.
(D)
Changes in method of accounting.
The use of this method to determine the amounts of section 471 costs under
this paragraph (d)(2)(iii) is the adoption of, or a change in, a method of accounting under section 446 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(E)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this paragraph (d)(2)(iii):
(
1
)
Example 1—Alternative-method taxpayer using de minimis direct labor costs rule.
Taxpayer P uses the modified simplified production method described in § 1.263A-2(c) and determines its amounts of section 471 costs by using the alternative method under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section. Additionally, P uses the de minimis direct labor costs rule under paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B) of this section. P does not capitalize vacation pay or holiday pay to property produced or property acquired for resale in its financial statement but does capitalize all other direct labor costs to such property in its financial statement. On its 2018 financial statement, P incurs $3,500,000 of total direct labor costs, including $110,000 of vacation pay costs and $10,000 of holiday pay costs. For federal income tax purposes, P incurs $150,000 of vacation pay costs and $18,000 of holiday pay costs in the taxable year. P's uncapitalized direct labor costs are $120,000 ($110,000 of vacation pay plus $10,000 of holiday pay). For purposes of the five percent test in paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, P's uncapitalized direct labor costs are 3.43% of total direct labor costs ($120,000 divided by $3,500,000). Accordingly, under paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, P includes $120,000 in its additional section 263A costs and excludes that amount from its section 471 costs in the taxable year. Additionally, pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, P includes in additional section 263A costs a positive book-to-tax adjustment of $40,000 for vacation pay costs ($150,000 tax amount−$110,000 book amount) and a positive book-to-tax adjustment of $8,000 for holiday pay costs ($18,000 tax amount−$10,000 book amount).
(
2
)
Example 2—Alternative-method taxpayer with under and over-applied burdens that uses safe harbor rule for certain variances and under or over-applied burdens.
Taxpayer X uses the modified simplified production method described in § 1.263A-2(c) and determines its amounts of section 471 costs by using the alternative method under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section. In 2018, X uses a burden rate method for book purposes to allocate costs to Products A and B, and does not capitalize any under or over-applied burdens to property produced or property acquired for resale in its financial statement. X does not allocate costs to any other products using a burden rate method, and X does not allocate costs to any products using a standard cost method. On its 2018 financial statement, using X's burden rate, the total amount of predetermined indirect costs for Product A is $545,000 and the total amount of actual indirect costs incurred for Product A is $550,000; accordingly, X has an under-applied burden of $5,000 for Product A. For federal income tax purposes, the actual indirect costs incurred in 2018 for Product A is $560,000. Additionally, on its 2018 financial statement, using X's burden rate, the total amount of predetermined indirect costs for Product B is $250,000 and the total amount of actual indirect costs incurred for Product B is $225,000; accordingly, X has an over-applied burden of $25,000 for Product B. For federal income tax purposes, the actual indirect costs incurred in 2018 for Product B is $240,000. X uses the safe harbor rule for certain variances and under or over-applied burdens. Prior to the application of this safe harbor rule, X's total section 471 costs for 2018 for Products A and B (the only items to which X allocates costs using a standard cost method or burden rate method) are $2,000,000, which includes $550,000 actual indirect costs for Product A, $225,000 actual indirect costs for Product B, and $1,225,000 of other section 471 costs for Products A and B that are not allocated under X's burden rate method. For purposes of determining the amount of uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens for the five percent test in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section, X's under and over-applied burdens for Products A and B are treated as positive amounts. Consequently, the sum of X's uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens is $30,000 ($5,000 under-applied burden for Product A plus $25,000 over-
applied burden for Product B). Accordingly, under paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section, the sum of X's uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens is 1.5% of X's total section 471 costs for all items to which it allocates costs using a standard cost method or burden rate method ($30,000 divided by $2,000,000), and X includes a positive $5,000 under-applied burden for Product A and a negative $25,000 over-applied burden for Product B in its additional section 263A costs, and excludes those amounts from its section 471 costs. Additionally, pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, X includes in its additional section 263A costs a positive book-to-tax adjustment of $10,000 for Product A ($560,000 actual cost tax amount−$550,000 actual cost book amount) and a positive book-to-tax adjustment of $15,000 for Product B ($240,000 actual tax amount cost−$225,000 actual book amount cost) in the taxable year.
(iv)
De minimis rule exceptions for certain direct costs
—(A)
In general.
Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, a taxpayer that uses the simplified resale method, the simplified production method, or the modified simplified production method, and that does not capitalize certain direct costs to property produced or property acquired for resale in its financial statement (uncapitalized direct labor costs or uncapitalized direct material costs), may use either or both the de minimis direct labor costs rule or the de minimis direct material costs rule to include in additional section 263A costs, and exclude from section 471 costs, certain uncapitalized direct labor costs or uncapitalized direct material costs that are incurred in the taxable year as provided in paragraphs (d)(2)(iv)(B) and (C) of this section, respectively. The use of the de minimis rules described in paragraphs (d)(2)(iv)(B) and (C) of this section is the adoption of, or a change in, a method of accounting under section 446 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(B)
De minimis rule for certain direct labor costs.
A taxpayer described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(A) of this section that uses the de minimis rule described in this paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B) includes in additional section 263A costs, and excludes from section 471 costs, the sum of the amounts of all of those uncapitalized direct labor costs that are incurred in the taxable year, if that sum is less than five percent of total direct labor costs incurred in the taxable year (whether or not capitalized in the taxpayer's financial statement), or another amount specified in other published guidance (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter). For purposes of determining the amount of uncapitalized direct labor costs for this five percent test, any amounts that constitute a reduction to costs are treated as a positive amount. The amounts of uncapitalized direct labor costs used for the five percent test, and the amounts of uncapitalized direct labor costs included in additional section 263A costs under this paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B), must not include amounts relating to basic compensation or overtime, or the types of costs included in the taxpayer's standard cost or burden rate methods used for section 471 costs (but see paragraphs (d)(2)(v) and (f)(3)(i)(C) of this section for special rules for certain variances and under or over-applied burdens).
(C)
De minimis rule for certain direct material costs.
A taxpayer described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(A) of this section that uses the de minimis rule described in this paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(C) includes in additional section 263A costs, and excludes from section 471 costs, the sum of the amounts of all of those uncapitalized direct material costs that are incurred in the taxable year, if that sum is less than five percent of total direct material costs incurred in the taxable year (whether or not capitalized in the taxpayer's financial statement), or another amount specified in other published guidance (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter). For purposes of determining the amount of uncapitalized direct material costs for this five percent test, any amounts that constitute a reduction to costs, such as cash and trade discounts, are treated as a positive amount. The amounts of uncapitalized direct material costs used for the five percent test, and the amounts of uncapitalized direct material costs included in additional section 263A costs under this
paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(C), must not include the types of costs included in the taxpayer's standard cost method used for section 471 costs (but see paragraphs (d)(2)(v) and (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section for special rules for certain variances).
(D)
Taxpayers using a historic absorption ratio.
A taxpayer that uses the historic absorption ratio provided in § 1.263A-2(b)(4) or (c)(4) or § 1.263A-3(d)(4), and that uses a de minimis rule described in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section during its test period or updated test period, determines whether direct labor costs or direct material costs, as applicable, are included in any of its section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end during its qualifying period or extended qualifying period according to how those direct labor costs or direct material costs, respectively, are identified in at least two of the three years of the taxpayer's applicable test period or updated test period. If a taxpayer described in this paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(D) is required to revise any of its actual absorption ratios for its test period or updated test period as a result of a change in a method of accounting, the taxpayer determines whether direct labor costs or direct material costs, as applicable, are included in any of its section 471 costs on hand at year end during a qualifying period or extended qualifying period according to how those direct labor costs or direct material costs, respectively, are identified in the taxpayer's revised actual absorption ratios during its applicable test period or updated test period.
(E)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this paragraph (d)(2)(iv):
(
1
)
Example 1—Taxpayer using de minimis direct material costs rule.
Taxpayer R uses the modified simplified production method described in § 1.263A-2(c) and the de minimis method of accounting under paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(C) of this section. In 2018, R does not capitalize freight-in costs or trade discounts to property produced or property acquired for resale in its financial statement but does capitalize all other direct material costs to such property in its financial statement. R incurs total direct material costs of $3,105,000, which represents invoice price of $3,000,000 on goods purchased, plus $120,000 of freight-in costs, less $15,000 for trade discounts. For purposes of determining the amount of uncapitalized direct material costs for the five percent test in paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(C) of this section, R's trade discounts are treated as a positive amount. Consequently, R's uncapitalized direct material costs for purposes of the five percent test are $135,000 ($120,000 of freight-in plus $15,000 of trade discounts). Accordingly, under paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(C) of this section, R's uncapitalized direct material costs are 4.35% of total direct material costs ($135,000 divided by $3,105,000), and R includes a positive $120,000 of freight-in and a negative $15,000 of trade discounts in its additional section 263A costs and excludes those amounts from its section 471 costs in the taxable year.
(
2
)
Example 2—Taxpayer using de minimis direct labor costs rule and historic absorption ratio.
Taxpayer S uses the historic absorption ratio provided in § 1.263A-2(c)(4). S uses the de minimis method of accounting under paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B). S excludes certain uncapitalized direct labor costs from its section 471 costs (and includes them in additional section 263A costs) under paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(B) of this section in Years 1 and 3 of its applicable test period. Because S excluded direct labor costs from its section 471 costs in at least two of the three years of its applicable test period, S must exclude those same costs from its pre-production and production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end during its qualifying period or extended qualifying period.
(v)
Safe harbor method for certain variances and under or over-applied burdens
—(A)
In general.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii), (f)(3)(i)(C), and (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, a taxpayer that uses the simplified resale method, the simplified production method, or the modified simplified production method, may use the safe harbor method described in this paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) for all of its variances and under or over-applied burdens that are not capitalized to property produced or property acquired for resale in its financial statement (uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or
over-applied burdens). A taxpayer using this safe harbor method must include in additional section 263A costs, and exclude from section 471 costs, the sum of the amounts of all of those uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens for the taxable year, if that sum is less than five percent of the taxpayer's total section 471 costs for all items to which it allocates costs using a standard cost method or burden rate method, or another percentage specified in other published guidance (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter). If the sum of uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens is not less than this five percent threshold, the taxpayer may not exclude such uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens from section 471 costs, and must reallocate such uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens to or among the units of property to which the costs are allocable in accordance with paragraphs (f)(3)(i)(C) and (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section (but see paragraph (d)(2)(v)(B) of this section for a rule that a taxpayer using the safe harbor method described in this paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) may not use the methods of accounting described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i)(C) and (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section to treat certain uncapitalized variances and certain uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens as not allocable to property). For purposes of determining the amounts of uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens for this five percent test, all variances and under or over-applied burdens are treated as positive amounts. Additionally, for purposes of this five percent test, a taxpayer's total section 471 costs for all items to which it allocates costs using a standard cost method or burden rate method are determined before application of the safe harbor method described in this paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A), and therefore this amount must reflect the actual amounts incurred by the taxpayer for those items during the taxable year, which includes variances and under or over-applied burdens. The variances described in this paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) include any variances on cash or trade discounts, if those discounts are capitalized as part of the taxpayer's standard cost method used for section 471 costs.
(B)
Consistency requirement.
A taxpayer using the safe harbor method described in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section must use the method consistently for all items to which it allocates costs using a standard cost method or burden rate method and may not use the methods of accounting described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i)(C) and (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section to treat its uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens that are not significant in amount relative to the taxpayer's total indirect costs incurred with respect to production and resale activities for the year as not allocable to property produced or property acquired for resale.
(C)
Allocation of variances and under or over-applied burdens between production and preproduction costs under the modified simplified production method.
In the case of a taxpayer using the modified simplified production method and the safe harbor method described in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section, uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens treated as additional section 263A costs under the safe harbor method must be allocated between production additional section 263A costs, as described in § 1.263A-2(c)(3)(ii)(D)(
1
), and pre-production additional section 263A costs, as described in § 1.263A-2(c)(3)(ii)(B)(
1
), using any reasonable method. In the case of a taxpayer using the modified simplified production method and the safe harbor method described in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section, uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens that are not excluded from section 471 costs must be allocated between production section 471 costs, as described in § 1.263A-2(c)(3)(ii)(D)(
3
), and pre-production section 471 costs, as described in § 1.263A-2(c)(3)(ii)(B)(
2
) based on the taxpayer's reallocation of such uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens to or among the units of property to which the costs are allocable in accordance with paragraphs (f)(3)(i)(C)
and (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, as described in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section.
(D)
Allocation of variances and under or over-applied burdens between storage and handling costs absorption ratio and purchasing costs absorption ratio under the simplified resale method.
In the case of a taxpayer using the simplified resale method, any uncapitalized variances and uncapitalized under or over-applied burdens treated as additional section 263A costs under the safe harbor method described in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section must be allocated between storage and handling costs, as described in § 1.263A-3(d)(3)(i)(D)(
2
), and current year's purchasing costs, as described in § 1.263A-3(d)(3)(i)(E)(
2
), using any reasonable method.
(E)
Method of accounting.
The use of the safe harbor method described in this paragraph (d)(2)(v) is the adoption of, or a change in, a method of accounting under section 446 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(vi)
Removal of section 471 costs.
A taxpayer must remove those costs included in its section 471 costs that are not permitted to be capitalized under either paragraph (c)(2) or (j)(2)(ii) of this section and those costs included in its section 471 costs that are eligible for capitalization under paragraph (j)(2) of this section that the taxpayer does not elect to capitalize under section 263A. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, a taxpayer must remove costs pursuant to this paragraph (d)(2)(vi) by adjusting its section 471 costs and may not remove the costs by including a negative adjustment in its additional section 263A costs. A taxpayer that removes costs pursuant to this paragraph (d)(2)(vi) by adjusting its section 471 costs must use a reasonable method that approximates the manner in which the taxpayer originally capitalized the costs to its property produced or property acquired for resale in its financial statement.
(vii)
Method changes.
A taxpayer using the simplified production method, simplified resale method, or the modified simplified production method and that changes its financial statement practices for a cost in a manner that would change its section 471 costs is required to change its method of accounting for federal income tax purposes. A taxpayer may change its method of accounting for determining section 471 costs only with the consent of the Commissioner as required under section 446(e) and the corresponding regulations.
(3)
Additional section 263A costs
—(i)
In general.
Additional section 263A costs are the costs, other than interest, that are not included in a taxpayer's section 471 costs but that are required to be capitalized under section 263A. Additional section 263A costs generally do not include the direct costs that are required to be included in a taxpayer's section 471 costs under paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section; however, additional section 263A costs must include any direct costs excluded from section 471 costs under paragraphs (d)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section. For a taxpayer using the alternative method described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, additional section 263A costs must also include any negative or positive adjustments required to be made as a result of differences in the book and tax amounts of the taxpayer's section 471 costs.
(ii)
Negative adjustments
—(A)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided by regulations or other published guidance (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter), a taxpayer may not include negative adjustments in additional section 263A costs. However, for a taxpayer using the alternative method described in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, see paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(B) of this section for negative or positive adjustments required to be made as a result of differences in the book and tax amounts of the taxpayer's section 471 costs.
(B)
Exception for certain taxpayers removing costs from section 471 costs.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(2)(vi) and (d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, and except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii)(C) and (D) of this section, the following taxpayers may, but are not required to, include negative adjustments in additional section 263A costs to remove the taxpayer's section 471 costs that are described in paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section (costs that are
not required to be, or are not permitted to be, capitalized under section 263A):
(
1
) A taxpayer using the simplified production method under § 1.263A-2(b) if the taxpayer's (or its predecessor's) average annual gross receipts for the three previous taxable years (test period) do not exceed $50,000,000, or another amount specified in other published guidance (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter). The rules of § 1.263A-1(j) apply for purposes of determining the amount of a taxpayer's gross receipts and the test period;
(
2
) A taxpayer using the modified simplified production method under § 1.263A-2(c); and
(
3
) A taxpayer using the simplified resale method under § 1.263A-3(d).
(C)
No negative adjustments for cash or trade discounts.
A taxpayer may not include negative adjustments in additional section 263A costs for cash or trade discounts described in § 1.471-3(b). However, see paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(C) of this section for a de minimis rule for certain direct material costs that may be included in additional section 263A costs and paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section for certain variance amounts that may be included in additional section 263A costs.
(D)
No negative adjustments for certain expenses.
A taxpayer may not include negative adjustments in additional section 263A costs for an amount which is of a type for which a deduction would be disallowed under section 162(c), (e), (f), or (g) and the regulations thereunder in the case of a business expense.
(E)
Consistency requirement for negative adjustments.
A taxpayer that is permitted to include negative adjustments in additional section 263A costs to remove section 471 costs under paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(B) of this section and that includes negative adjustments to remove section 471 costs must use that method of accounting to remove all section 471 costs required to be removed under paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section.
(4)
Section 263A costs.
Section 263A costs are defined as the costs that a taxpayer must capitalize under section 263A. Thus, section 263A costs are the sum of a taxpayer's section 471 costs, its additional section 263A costs, and interest capitalizable under section 263A(f).
(5)
Classification of costs.
A taxpayer must classify section 471 costs, additional section 263A costs, and any permitted adjustments to section 471 or additional section 263A costs, using the narrower of the classifications of costs described in paragraphs (e)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, whether or not the taxpayer is required to maintain inventories, or the classifications of costs used by a taxpayer in its financial statement. If a cost is not described in paragraph (e)(2), (3), or (4) of this section, the cost is to be classified using the classification of costs used in the taxpayer's financial statement.
(6)
Financial statement.
For purposes of section 263A, financial statement means the taxpayer's financial statement listed in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section that has the highest priority, including within paragraphs (d)(6)(ii) and (iv) of this section. The financial statements are, in descending priority:
(i) A financial statement required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) (the 10-K or the Annual Statement to Shareholders);
(ii) A certified audited financial statement that is accompanied by the report of an independent certified public accountant (or in the case of a foreign entity, by the report of a similarly qualified independent professional) that is used for:
(A) Credit purposes;
(B) Reporting to shareholders, partners, or similar persons; or
(C) Any other substantial non-tax purpose;
(iii) A financial statement (other than a tax return) required to be provided to the federal or a state government or any federal or state agency (other than the SEC or the Internal Revenue Service); or
(iv) A financial statement that is used for:
(A) Credit purposes;
(B) Reporting to shareholders, partners, or similar persons; or
(C) Any other substantial non-tax purpose.
(e)
Types of costs subject to capitalization
—(1)
In general.
Taxpayers subject to section 263A must capitalize all direct costs and certain indirect costs
properly allocable to property produced or property acquired for resale. This paragraph (e) describes the types of costs subject to section 263A.
(2)
Direct costs
—(i)
Producers.
Producers must capitalize direct material costs and direct labor costs.
(A)
Direct material costs. Direct materials costs
include the cost of those materials that become an integral part of specific property produced and those materials that are consumed in the ordinary course of production and that can be identified or associated with particular units or groups of units of property produced. For example, a cost described in § 1.162-3, relating to the cost of a material or supply, may be a direct material cost.
(B)
Direct labor costs
include the costs of labor that can be identified or associated with particular units or groups of units of specific property produced. For this purpose, labor encompasses full-time and part-time employees, as well as contract employees and independent contractors. Direct labor costs include all elements of compensation other than employee benefit costs described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(D) of this section. Elements of direct labor costs include basic compensation, overtime pay, vacation pay, holiday pay, sick leave pay (other than payments pursuant to a wage continuation plan under section 105(d) as it existed prior to its repeal in 1983), shift differential, payroll taxes, and payments to a supplemental unemployment benefit plan.
(ii)
Resellers.
Resellers must capitalize the acquisition costs of property acquired for resale. In the case of inventory, the acquisition cost is the cost described in § 1.471-3(b).
(3)
Indirect costs
—(i)
In general.
(A) Indirect costs are defined as all costs other than direct material costs and direct labor costs (in the case of property produced) or acquisition costs (in the case of property acquired for resale). Taxpayers subject to section 263A must capitalize all indirect costs properly allocable to property produced or property acquired for resale. Indirect costs are properly allocable to property produced or property acquired for resale when the costs directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the performance of production or resale activities. Indirect costs may directly benefit or be incurred by reason of the performance of production or resale activities even if the costs are calculated as a percentage of revenue or gross profit from the sale of inventory, are determined by reference to the number of units of property sold, or are incurred only upon the sale of inventory. Indirect costs may be allocable to both production and resale activities, as well as to other activities that are not subject to section 263A. Taxpayers must make a reasonable allocation of indirect costs between production, resale, and other activities.
(B)
Example.
The following example illustrates the provisions of this paragraph (e)(3)(i):
(i) Taxpayer A manufactures tablecloths and other linens. A enters into a licensing agreement with Company L under which A may label its tablecloths with L's trademark if the tablecloths meet certain specified quality standards. In exchange for its right to use L's trademark, the licensing agreement requires A to pay L a royalty of $X for each tablecloth carrying L's trademark that A sells. The licensing agreement does not require A to pay L any minimum or lump-sum royalties.
(ii) The licensing agreement provides A with the right to use L's intellectual property, a trademark. The licensing agreement also requires A to conduct its production activities according to certain standards as a condition of exercising that right. Thus, A's right to use L's trademark under the licensing agreement is directly related to A's production of tablecloths. The royalties the licensing agreement requires A to pay for using L's trademark are the costs A incurs in exchange for these rights. Therefore, although A incurs royalty costs only when A sells a tablecloth carrying L's trademark, the royalty costs directly benefit production activities and are incurred by reason of production activities within the meaning of paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii)
Examples of indirect costs required to be capitalized.
The following are examples of indirect costs that must be capitalized to the extent they are properly allocable to property produced or property acquired for resale:
(A)
Indirect labor costs.
Indirect labor costs include all labor costs (including the elements of labor costs set forth in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section) that cannot be directly identified or associated with particular units or groups of units of specific property produced or property acquired for resale (e.g., factory labor that is not direct labor). As in the case of direct labor, indirect labor encompasses full-time and part-time employees, as well as contract employees and independent contractors.
(B)
Officers' compensation.
Officers' compensation includes compensation paid to officers of the taxpayer.
(C)
Pension and other related costs.
Pension and other related costs include contributions paid to or made under any stock bonus, pension, profit-sharing or annuity plan, or other plan deferring the receipt of compensation, whether or not the plan qualifies under section 401(a). Contributions to employee plans representing past services must be capitalized in the same manner (and in the same proportion to property currently being acquired or produced) as amounts contributed for current service.
(D)
Employee benefit expenses.
Employee benefit expenses include all other employee benefit expenses (not described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(C) of this section) to the extent such expenses are otherwise allowable as deductions under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code. These other employee benefit expenses include: worker's compensation; amounts otherwise deductible or allowable in reducing earnings and profits under section 404A; payments pursuant to a wage continuation plan under section 105(d) as it existed prior to its repeal in 1983; amounts includible in the gross income of employees under a method or arrangement of employer contributions or compensation that has the effect of a stock bonus, pension, profit-sharing or annuity plan, or other plan deferring receipt of compensation or providing deferred benefits; premiums on life and health insurance; and miscellaneous benefits provided for employees such as safety, medical treatment, recreational and eating facilities, membership dues, etc. Employee benefit expenses do not, however, include direct labor costs described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.
(E)
Indirect material costs. Indirect material costs
include the cost of materials that are not an integral part of specific property produced and the cost of materials that are consumed in the ordinary course of performing production or resale activities that cannot be identified or associated with particular units of property. Thus, for example, a cost described in § 1.162-3, relating to the cost of a material or supply, may be an indirect cost.
(F)
Purchasing costs.
Purchasing costs include costs attributable to purchasing activities. See § 1.263A-3(c)(3) for a further discussion of purchasing costs.
(G)
Handling costs.
Handling costs include costs attributable to processing, assembling, repackaging and transporting goods, and other similar activities. See § 1.263A-3(c)(4) for a further discussion of handling costs.
(H)
Storage costs.
Storage costs include the costs of carrying, storing, or warehousing property. See § 1.263A-3(c)(5) for a further discussion of storage costs.
(I)
Cost recovery.
Cost recovery includes depreciation, amortization, and cost recovery allowances on equipment and facilities (including depreciation or amortization of self-constructed assets or other previously produced or acquired property to which section 263A or section 263 applies).
(J)
Depletion.
Depletion includes allowances for depletion, whether or not in excess of cost. Depletion is, however, only properly allocable to property that has been sold (i.e., for purposes of determining gain or loss on the sale of the property).
(K)
Rent.
Rent includes the cost of renting or leasing equipment, facilities, or land.
(L)
Taxes.
Taxes include those taxes (other than taxes described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(F) of this section) that are otherwise allowable as a deduction to the extent such taxes are attributable to labor, materials, supplies, equipment, land, or facilities used in production or resale activities.
(M)
Insurance.
Insurance includes the cost of insurance on plant or facility,
machinery, equipment, materials, property produced, or property acquired for resale.
(N)
Utilities.
Utilities include the cost of electricity, gas, and water.
(O)
Repairs and maintenance.
Repairs and maintenance include the cost of repairing and maintaining equipment or facilities.
(P)
Engineering and design costs.
Engineering and design costs include pre-production costs, such as costs attributable to research, experimental, engineering, and design activities (to the extent that such amounts are not research and experimental expenditures as described in section 174 and the regulations thereunder).
(Q)
Spoilage.
Spoilage includes the costs of rework labor, scrap, and spoilage.
(R)
Tools and equipment.
Tools and equipment include the costs of tools and equipment which are not otherwise capitalized.
(S)
Quality control.
Quality control includes the costs of quality control and inspection.
(T)
Bidding costs.
Bidding costs are costs incurred in the solicitation of contracts (including contracts pertaining to property acquired for resale) ultimately awarded to the taxpayer. The taxpayer must defer all bidding costs paid or incurred in the solicitation of a particular contract until the contract is awarded. If the contract is awarded to the taxpayer, the bidding costs become part of the indirect costs allocated to the subject matter of the contract. If the contract is not awarded to the taxpayer, bidding costs are deductible in the taxable year that the contract is awarded to another party, or in the taxable year that the taxpayer is notified in writing that no contract will be awarded and that the contract (or a similar or related contract) will not be rebid, or in the taxable year that the taxpayer abandons its bid or proposal, whichever occurs first. Abandoning a bid does not include modifying, supplementing, or changing the original bid or proposal. If the taxpayer is awarded only part of the bid (for example, the taxpayer submitted one bid to build each of two different types of products, and the taxpayer was awarded a contract to build only one of the two types of products), the taxpayer shall deduct the portion of the bidding costs related to the portion of the bid not awarded to the taxpayer. In the case of a bid or proposal for a multi-unit contract, all bidding costs must be included in the costs allocated to the subject matter of the contract awarded to the taxpayer to produce or acquire for resale any of such units. For example, where the taxpayer submits one bid to produce three similar turbines and the taxpayer is awarded a contract to produce only two of the three turbines, all bidding costs must be included in the cost of the two turbines. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(T), a contract means—
(
1
) In the case of a specific unit of property, any agreement under which the taxpayer would produce or sell property to another party if the agreement is entered into before the taxpayer produces or acquires the specific unit of property to be delivered to the party under the agreement; and
(
2
) In the case of fungible property, any agreement to the extent that, at the time the agreement is entered into, the taxpayer has on hand an insufficient quantity of completed fungible items of such property that may be used to satisfy the agreement (plus any other production or sales agreements of the taxpayer).
(U)
Licensing and franchise costs.
(
1
) Licensing and franchise costs include fees incurred in securing the contractual right to use a trademark, corporate plan, manufacturing procedure, special recipe, or other similar right associated with property produced or property acquired for resale. These costs include the otherwise deductible portion (such as amortization) of the initial fees incurred to obtain the license or franchise and any minimum annual payments and any royalties that are incurred by a licensee or a franchisee. These costs also include fees, payments, and royalties otherwise described in this paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(U) that a taxpayer incurs (within the meaning of section 461) only upon the sale of property produced or acquired for resale.
(
2
) If a taxpayer incurs (within the meaning of section 461) a fee, payment,
or royalty described in this paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(U) only upon the sale of property produced or acquired for resale and the cost is required to be capitalized under this paragraph (e)(3), the taxpayer may properly allocate the cost entirely to property produced or acquired for resale by the taxpayer that has been sold.
(V)
Interest.
Interest includes interest on debt incurred or continued during the production period to finance the production of real property or tangible personal property to which section 263A(f) applies.
(W)
Capitalizable service costs.
Service costs that are required to be capitalized include capitalizable service costs and capitalizable mixed service costs as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(iii)
Indirect costs not capitalized.
The following indirect costs are not required to be capitalized under section 263A:
(A)
Selling and distribution costs.
These costs are marketing, selling, advertising, and distribution costs.
(B)
Research and experimental expenditures.
Research and experimental expenditures are expenditures described in section 174 and the regulations thereunder.
(C)
Section 179 costs.
Section 179 costs are expenses for certain depreciable assets deductible at the election of the taxpayer under section 179 and the regulations thereunder.
(D)
Section 165 losses.
Section 165 losses are losses under section 165 and the regulations thereunder.
(E)
Cost recovery allowances on temporarily idle equipment and facilities
—(
1) In general.
Cost recovery allowances on temporarily idle equipment and facilities include only depreciation, amortization, and cost recovery allowances on equipment and facilities that have been placed in service but are temporarily idle. Equipment and facilities are temporarily idle when a taxpayer takes them out of service for a finite period. However, equipment and facilities are not considered temporarily idle—
(
i
) During worker breaks, non-working hours, or on regularly scheduled non-working days (such as holidays or weekends);
(
ii
) During normal interruptions in the operation of the equipment or facilities;
(
iii
) When equipment is enroute to or located at a job site; or
(
iv
) When under normal operating conditions, the equipment is used or operated only during certain shifts.
(
2
)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(E) are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1. Equipment operated only during certain shifts.
Taxpayer A manufactures widgets. Although A's manufacturing facility operates 24 hours each day in three shifts, A only operates its stamping machine during one shift each day. Because A only operates its stamping machine during certain shifts, A's stamping machine is not considered temporarily idle during the two shifts that it is not operated.

# Example 2. Facility shut down for retooling.
Taxpayer B owns and operates a manufacturing facility. B closes its manufacturing facility for two weeks to retool its assembly line. B's manufacturing facility is considered temporarily idle during this two-week period.
(F)
Taxes assessed on the basis of income.
Taxes assessed on the basis of income include only state, local, and foreign income taxes, and franchise taxes that are assessed on the taxpayer based on income.
(G)
Strike expenses.
Strike expenses include only costs associated with hiring employees to replace striking personnel (but not wages of replacement personnel), costs of security, and legal fees associated with settling strikes.
(H)
Warranty and product liability costs.
Warranty costs and product liability costs are costs incurred in fulfilling product warranty obligations for products that have been sold and costs incurred for product liability insurance.
(I)
On-site storage costs.
On-site storage costs are storage and warehousing costs incurred by a taxpayer at an on-site storage facility, as defined in § 1.263A-3(c)(5)(ii)(A), with respect to property produced or property acquired for resale.
(J)
Unsuccessful bidding expenses.
Unsuccessful bidding costs are bidding expenses incurred in the solicitation of contracts not awarded to the taxpayer.
(K)
Deductible service costs.
Service costs that are not required to be capitalized include deductible service costs and deductible mixed service costs as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
(4)
Service costs
—(i)
Introduction.
This paragraph (e)(4) provides definitions and categories of service costs. Paragraph (g)(4) of this section provides specific rules for determining the amount of service costs allocable to property produced or property acquired for resale. In addition, paragraph (h) of this section provides a simplified method for determining the amount of service costs that must be capitalized.
(A)
Definition of service costs.
Service costs are defined as a type of indirect costs (e.g., general and administrative costs) that can be identified specifically with a service department or function or that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of a service department or function.
(B)
Definition of service departments.
Service departments are defined as administrative, service, or support departments that incur service costs. The facts and circumstances of the taxpayer's activities and business organization control whether a department is a service department. For example, service departments include personnel, accounting, data processing, security, legal, and other similar departments.
(ii)
Various service cost categories
—(A)
Capitalizable service costs.
Capitalizable service costs are defined as service costs that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the performance of the production or resale activities of the taxpayer. Therefore, these service costs are required to be capitalized under section 263A. Examples of service departments or functions that incur capitalizable service costs are provided in paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section.
(B)
Deductible service costs.
Deductible service costs are defined as service costs that do not directly benefit or are not incurred by reason of the performance of the production or resale activities of the taxpayer, and therefore, are not required to be capitalized under section 263A. Deductible service costs generally include costs incurred by reason of the taxpayer's overall management or policy guidance functions. In addition, deductible service costs include costs incurred by reason of the marketing, selling, advertising, and distribution activities of the taxpayer. Examples of service departments or functions that incur deductible service costs are provided in paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section.
(C)
Mixed service costs.
Mixed service costs are defined as service costs that are partially allocable to production or resale activities (capitalizable mixed service costs) and partially allocable to non-production or non-resale activities (deductible mixed service costs). For example, a personnel department may incur costs to recruit factory workers, the costs of which are allocable to production activities, and it may incur costs to develop wage, salary, and benefit policies, the costs of which are allocable to non-production activities.
(iii)
Examples of capitalizable service costs.
Costs incurred in the following departments or functions are generally allocated among production or resale activities:
(A) The administration and coordination of production or resale activities (wherever performed in the business organization of the taxpayer).
(B) Personnel operations, including the cost of recruiting, hiring, relocating, assigning, and maintaining personnel records or employees.
(C) Purchasing operations, including purchasing materials and equipment, scheduling and coordinating delivery of materials and equipment to or from factories or job sites, and expediting and follow-up.
(D) Materials handling and warehousing and storage operations.
(E) Accounting and data services operations, including, for example, cost accounting, accounts payable, disbursements, and payroll functions (but excluding accounts receivable and customer billing functions).
(F) Data processing.
(G) Security services.
(H) Legal services.
(iv)
Examples of deductible service costs.
Costs incurred in the following departments or functions are not generally allocated to production or resale activities:
(A) Departments or functions responsible for overall management of the
taxpayer or for setting overall policy for all of the taxpayer's activities or trades or businesses, such as the board of directors (including their immediate staff), and the chief executive, financial, accounting, and legal officers (including their immediate staff) of the taxpayer, provided that no substantial part of the cost of such departments or functions benefits a particular production or resale activity.
(B) Strategic business planning.
(C) General financial accounting.
(D) General financial planning (including general budgeting) and financial management (including bank relations and cash management).
(E) Personnel policy (such as establishing and managing personnel policy in general; developing wage, salary, and benefit policies; developing employee training programs unrelated to particular production or resale activities; negotiating with labor unions; and maintaining relations with retired workers).
(F) Quality control policy.
(G) Safety engineering policy.
(H) Insurance or risk management policy (but not including bid or performance bonds or insurance related to activities associated with property produced or property acquired for resale).
(I) Environmental management policy (except to the extent that the costs of any system or procedure benefits a particular production or resale activity).
(J) General economic analysis and forecasting.
(K) Internal audit.
(L) Shareholder, public, and industrial relations.
(M) Tax services.
(N) Marketing, selling, or advertising.
(f)
Cost allocation methods
—(1)
Introduction.
This paragraph (f) sets forth various detailed or specific (facts-and-circumstances) cost allocation methods that taxpayers may use to allocate direct and indirect costs to property produced and property acquired for resale.Paragraph (g) of this section provides general rules for applying these allocation methods to various categories of costs (i.e., direct materials, direct labor, and indirect costs, including service costs). In addition, in lieu of a facts-and-circumstances allocation method, taxpayers may use the simplified methods provided in §§ 1.263A-2(b) and (c) and 1.263A-3(d) to allocate direct and indirect costs to eligible property produced or eligible property acquired for resale; see those sections for definitions of eligible property.Paragraph (h) of this section provides a simplified method for determining the amount of mixed service costs required to be capitalized to eligible property. The methodology set forth in paragraph (h) of this section for mixed service costs may be used in conjunction with either a facts-and-circumstances or a simplified method of allocating costs to eligible property produced or eligible property acquired for resale.
(2)
Specific identification method.
A specific identification method traces costs to a cost objective, such as a function, department, activity, or product, on the basis of a cause and effect or other reasonable relationship between the costs and the cost objective.
(3)
Burden rate and standard cost meth- ods
—(i)
Burden rate method
—(A)
In gen- eral.
A burden rate method allocates an appropriate amount of indirect costs to property produced or property acquired for resale during a taxable year using predetermined rates that approximate the actual amount of indirect costs incurred by the taxpayer during the taxable year. Burden rates (such as ratios based on direct costs, hours, or similar items) may be developed by the taxpayer in accordance with acceptable accounting principles and applied in a reasonable manner. A taxpayer may allocate different indirect costs on the basis of different burden rates. Thus, for example, the taxpayer may use one burden rate for allocating the cost of rent and another burden rate for allocating the cost of utilities. Any periodic adjustment to a burden rate that merely reflects current operating conditions, such as increases in automation or changes in operation or prices, is not a change in method of accounting under section 446(e). A change, however, in the concept or base upon which such rates are developed, such as a change from basing the rates on direct labor hours to basing them on direct machine hours, is a change in
method of accounting to which section 446(e) applies.
(B)
Development of burden rates.
The following factors, among others, may be used in developing burden rates:
(
1
) The selection of an appropriate level of activity and a period of time upon which to base the calculation of rates reflecting operating conditions for purposes of the unit costs being determined.
(
2
) The selection of an appropriate statistical base, such as direct labor hours, direct labor dollars, machine hours, or a combination thereof, upon which to apply the overhead rate.
(
3
) The appropriate budgeting, classification, and analysis of expenses (for example, the analysis of fixed versus variable costs).
(C)
Operation of the burden rate method.
The purpose of the burden rate method is to allocate an appropriate amount of indirect costs to production or resale activities through the use of predetermined rates intended to approximate the actual amount of indirect costs incurred. Accordingly, the proper use of the burden rate method under this section requires that any net negative or net positive difference between the total predetermined amount of costs allocated to property and the total amount of indirect costs actually incurred and required to be allocated to such property (i.e., the under or over-applied burden) must be treated as an adjustment to the taxpayer's ending inventory or capital account (as the case may be) in the taxable year in which such difference arises. However, if such adjustment is not significant in amount in relation to the taxpayer's total indirect costs incurred with respect to production or resale activities for the year, such adjustment need not be allocated to the property produced or property acquired for resale unless such allocation is made in the taxpayer's financial statement. The taxpayer must treat both positive and negative adjustments consistently.
(ii)
Standard cost method
—(A)
In general.
A standard cost method allocates an appropriate amount of direct and indirect costs to property produced by the taxpayer through the use of preestablished standard allowances, without reference to costs actually incurred during the taxable year. A taxpayer may use a standard cost method to allocate costs, provided variances are treated in accordance with the procedures prescribed in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. Any periodic adjustment to standard costs that merely reflects current operating conditions, such as increases in automation or changes in operation or prices, is not a change in method of accounting under section 446(e). A change, however, in the concept or base upon which standard costs are developed is a change in method of accounting to which section 446(e) applies.
(B)
Treatment of variances.
For purposes of this section, net positive overhead variance means the excess of total standard indirect costs over total actual indirect costs and net negative overhead variance means the excess of total actual indirect costs over total standard indirect costs. The proper use of a standard cost method requires that a taxpayer must reallocate to property a pro rata portion of any net negative or net positive overhead variances and any net negative or net positive direct cost variances. The taxpayer must apportion such variances to or among the property to which the costs are allocable. However, if such variances are not significant in amount relative to the taxpayer's total indirect costs incurred with respect to production and resale activities for the year, such variances need not be allocated to property produced or property acquired for resale unless such allocation is made in the taxpayer's financial statement. A taxpayer must treat both positive and negative variances consistently.
(4)
Reasonable allocation methods.
A taxpayer may use the methods described in paragraph (f) (2) or (3) of this section if they are reasonable allocation methods within the meaning of this paragraph (f)(4). In addition, a taxpayer may use any other reasonable method to properly allocate direct and indirect costs among units of property produced or property acquired for resale during the taxable year. An allocation method is reasonable if, with respect to the taxpayer's production or resale activities taken as a whole—
(i) The total costs actually capitalized during the taxable year do not differ significantly from the aggregate costs that would be properly capitalized using another permissible method described in this section or in §§ 1.263A-2 and 1.263A-3, with appropriate consideration given to the volume and value of the taxpayer's production or resale activities, the availability of costing information, the time and cost of using various allocation methods, and the accuracy of the allocation method chosen as compared with other allocation methods;
(ii) The allocation method is applied consistently by the taxpayer; and
(iii) The allocation method is not used to circumvent the requirements of the simplified methods in this section or in § 1.263A-2, § 1.263A-3, or the principles of section 263A.
(g)
Allocating categories of costs
—(1)
Direct materials.
Direct material costs (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) incurred during the taxable year must be allocated to the property produced or property acquired for resale by the taxpayer using the taxpayer's d of accounting for materials (e.g., specific identification; first-in, first-out (FIFO); or last-in, first-out (LIFO)), or any other reasonable allocation method (as defined under the principles of paragraph (f)(4) of this section).
(2)
Direct labor.
Direct labor costs (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) incurred during the taxable year are generally allocated to property produced or property acquired for resale using a specific identification method, standard cost method, or any other reasonable allocation method (as defined under the principles of paragraph (f)(4) of this section). All elements of compensation, other than basic compensation, may be grouped together and then allocated in proportion to the charge for basic compensation. Further, a taxpayer is not treated as using an erroneous method of accounting if direct labor costs are treated as indirect costs under the taxpayer's allocation method, provided such costs are capitalized to the extent required by paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
(3)
Indirect costs.
Indirect costs (as defined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section) are generally allocated to intermediate cost objectives such as departments or activities prior to the allocation of such costs to property produced or property acquired for resale. Indirect costs are allocated using either a specific identification method, a standard cost method, a burden rate method, or any other reasonable allocation method (as defined under the principles of paragraph (f)(4) of this section).
(4)
Service costs
—(i)
In general.
Service costs are a type of indirect costs that may be allocated using the same allocation methods available for allocating other indirect costs described in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. Generally, taxpayers that use a specific identification method or another reasonable allocation method must allocate service costs to particular departments or activities based on a factor or relationship that reasonably relates the service costs to the benefits received from the service departments or activities. For example, a reasonable factor for allocating legal services to particular departments or activities is the number of hours of legal services attributable to each department or activity. See paragraph (g)(4)(iv) of this section for other illustrations. Using reasonable factors or relationships, a taxpayer must allocate mixed service costs under a direct reallocation method described in paragraph (g)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, a step-allocation method described in paragraph (g)(4)(iii)(B) of this section, or any other reasonable allocation method (as defined under the principles of paragraph (f)(4) of this section).
(ii)
De minimis rule.
For purposes of administrative convenience, if 90 percent or more of a mixed service department's costs are deductible service costs, a taxpayer may elect not to allocate any portion of the service department's costs to property produced or property acquired for resale. For example, if 90 percent of the costs of an electing taxpayer's industrial relations department benefit the taxpayer's overall policy-making activities, the taxpayer is not required to allocate any portion of these costs to a production activity. Under this election, however, if 90 percent or more of a mixed service department's costs are
capitalizable service costs, a taxpayer must allocate 100 percent of the department's costs to the production or resale activity benefitted. For example, if 90 percent of the costs of an electing taxpayer's accounting department benefit the taxpayer's manufacturing activity, the taxpayer must allocate 100 percent of the costs of the accounting department to the manufacturing activity. An election under this paragraph (g)(4)(ii) applies to all of a taxpayer's mixed service departments and constitutes the adoption of a (or a change in) method of accounting under section 446 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(iii)
Methods for allocating mixed service costs
—(A)
Direct reallocation method.
Under the direct reallocation method, the total costs (direct and indirect) of all mixed service departments are allocated only to departments or cost centers engaged in production or resale activities and then from those departments to particular activities. This direct reallocation method ignores benefits provided by one mixed service department to other mixed service departments, and also excludes other mixed service departments from the base used to make the allocation.
(B)
Step-allocation method.
(
1
) Under a step-allocation method, a sequence of allocations is made by the taxpayer. First, the total costs of the mixed service departments that benefit the greatest number of other departments are allocated to—
(
i
) Other mixed service departments;
(
ii
) Departments that incur only deductible service costs; and
(
iii
) Departments that exclusively engage in production or resale activities.
(
2
) A taxpayer continues allocating mixed service costs in the manner described in paragraph (g)(4)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section (i.e., from the service departments benefitting the greatest number of departments to the service departments benefitting the least number of departments) until all mixed service costs are allocated to the types of departments listed in this paragraph (g)(4)(iii). Thus, a step-allocation method recognizes the benefits provided by one mixed service department to another mixed service department and also includes mixed service departments that have not yet been allocated in the base used to make the allocation.
(C)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (g)(4)(iii) are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1. Direct reallocation method.
(i) Taxpayer E has the following five departments: the Assembling Department, the Painting Department, and the Finishing Department (production departments), and the Personnel Department and the Data Processing Department (mixed service departments). E allocates the Personnel Department's costs on the basis of total payroll costs and the Data Processing Department's costs on the basis of data processing hours.
(ii) Under a direct reallocation method, E allocates the Personnel Department's costs directly to its Assembling, Painting, and Finishing Department, and not to its Data Processing department.
Department
Total dept. costs
Amount of payroll costs
Allocation ratio
Amount allocated
Personnel
$500,000
$50,000
$500,000
Data Proc'g
250,000
15,000
Assembling
250,000
15,000
15,000/285,000
26,315
Painting
1,000,000
90,000
90,000/285,000
157,895
Finishing
2,000,000
180,000
180,000/285,000
315,790
Total
$4,000,000
$350,000
(iii) After E allocates the Personnel Department's costs, E then allocates the costs of its Data Processing Department in the same manner.
Department
Total dept. cost after initial allocation
Total data proc. hours
Allocation ratio
Amount allocated
Total dept. cost after final allocation
Personnel
0
2,000
0
Data Proc'g
$250,000
$250,000
Assembling
276,315
2,000
2,000/10,000
50,000
$326,315
Painting
1,157,895
0
0/10,000
0
1,157,895
Finishing
2,315,790
8,000
8,000/10,000
200,000
2,515,790
Total
$4,000,000
12,000
$4,000,000

# Example 2. Step-allocation method.
(i) Taxpayer F has the following five departments: the Manufacturing Department (a production department), the Marketing Department and the Finance Department (departments that incur only deductible service costs), the Personnel Department and the Data Processing Department (mixed service departments). F uses a step-allocation method and allocates the Personnel Department's costs on the basis of total payroll costs and the Data Processing Department's costs on the basis of data processing hours. F's Personnel Department benefits all four of F's other departments, while its Data Processing Department benefits only three departments. Because F's Personnel Department benefits the greatest number of other departments, F first allocates its Personnel Department's costs to its Manufacturing, Marketing, Finance and Data Processing departments, as follows:
Department
Total cost of dept.
Total payroll costs
Allocation ratio
Amount allocated
Personnel
$500,000
$50,000
$500,000
Data Proc'g
250,000
15,000
15,000/300,000
25,000
Finance
250,000
15,000
15,000/300,000
25,000
Marketing
1,000,000
90,000
90,000/300,000
150,000
Manufac'g
2,000,000
180,000
180,000/300,000
300,000
4,000,000
350,000
(ii) Under a step-allocation method, the denominator of F's allocation ratio includes the payroll costs of its Manufacturing, Marketing, Finance, and Data Processing departments.
(iii) Next, F allocates the costs of its Data Processing Department on the basis of data processing hours. Because the costs incurred by F's Personnel Department have already been allocated, no allocation is made to the Personnel Department.
Department
Total dept. cost after initial allocation
Total data proc. hours
Allocation
ratio
Personnel
$0
2,000
$0
Data Proc'g
275,000
$275,000
0
Finance
275,000
2,000
2,000/10,000
55,000
330,000
Marketing
1,150,000
0
0/10,000
0
1,150,000
Manufac'g
2,300,000
8,000
8,000/10,000
220,000
2,520,000
4,000,000
12,000
4,000,000
(iv) Under the second step of F's step-allocation method, the denominator of F's allocation ratio includes the data processing hours of its Manufacturing, Marketing, and Finance Departments, but does not include the data processing hours of its Personnel Department (the other mixed service department) because the costs of that department have previously been allocated.
(iv)
Illustrations of mixed service cost allocations using reasonable factors or relationships.
This paragraph (g)(4)(iv) illustrates various reasonable factors and relationships that may be used in allocating different types of mixed service costs. Taxpayers, however, are permitted to use other reasonable factors and relationships to allocate mixed service costs. In addition, the factors or relationships illustrated in this paragraph (g)(4)(iv) may be used to allocate other types of service costs
not illustrated in this paragraph (g)(4)(iv).
(A)
Security services.
The costs of security or protection services must be allocated to each physical area that receives the services using any reasonable method applied consistently (e.g., the size of the physical area, the number of employees in the area, or the relative fair market value of assets located in the area).
(B)
Legal services.
The costs of legal services are generally allocable to a particular production or resale activity on the basis of the approximate number of hours of legal service performed in connection with the activity, including research, bidding, negotiating, drafting, reviewing a contract, obtaining necessary licenses and permits, and resolving disputes. Different hourly rates may be appropriate for different services. In determining the number of hours allocable to any activity, estimates are appropriate, detailed time records are not required to be kept, and insubstantial amounts of services provided to an activity by senior legal staff (such as administrators or reviewers) may be ignored. Legal costs may also be allocated to a particular production or resale activity based on the ratio of the total direct costs incurred for the activity to the total direct costs incurred with respect to all production or resale activities. The taxpayer must also allocate directly to an activity the cost incurred for any outside legal services. Legal costs relating to general corporate functions are not required to be allocated to a particular production or resale activity.
(C)
Centralized payroll services.
The costs of a centralized payroll department or activity are generally allocated to the departments or activities benefitted on the basis of the gross dollar amount of payroll processed.
(D)
Centralized data processing services.
The costs of a centralized data processing department are generally allocated to all departments or activities benefitted using any reasonable basis, such as total direct data processing costs or the number of data processing hours supplied. The costs of data processing systems or applications developed for a particular activity are directly allocated to that activity.
(E)
Engineering and design services.
The costs of an engineering or a design department are generally directly allocable to the departments or activities benefitted based on the ratio of the approximate number of hours of work performed with respect to the particular activity to the total number of hours of engineering or design work performed for all activities. Different services may be allocated at different hourly rates.
(F)
Safety engineering services.
The costs of a safety engineering departments or activities generally benefit all of the taxpayer's activities and, thus, should be allocated using a reasonable basis, such as: the approximate number of safety inspections made in connection with a particular activity as a fraction of total inspections, the number of employees assigned to an activity as a fraction of total employees, or the total labor hours worked in connection with an activity as a fraction of total hours. However, in determining the allocable costs of a safety engineering department, costs attributable to providing a safety program relating only to a particular activity must be directly assigned to such activity. Additionally, the cost of a safety engineering department only responsible for setting safety policy and establishing safety procedures to be used in all of the taxpayer's activities is not required to be allocated.
(v)
Accounting method change.
A change in the method or base used to allocate service costs (such as changing from an allocation base using direct labor costs to a base using direct labor hours), or a change in the taxpayer's determination of what functions or departments of the taxpayer are to be allocated, is a change in method of accounting to which section 446(e) and the regulations thereunder apply.
(h)
Simplified service cost method
—(1)
Introduction.
This paragraph (h) provides a simplified method for determining capitalizable mixed service costs incurred during the taxable year with respect to eligible property (i.e., the aggregate portion of mixed service costs that are properly allocable to the taxpayer's production or resale activities).
(2)
Eligible property
—(i)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section, the simplified service cost method, if elected for any trade or business of the taxpayer, must be used for all production and resale activities of the trade or business associated with any of the following categories of property that are subject to section 263A:
(A)
Inventory property.
Stock in trade or other property properly includible in the inventory of the taxpayer.
(B)
Non-inventory property held for sale.
Non-inventory property held by a taxpayer primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business.
(C)
Certain self-constructed assets.
Self-constructed assets substantially identical in nature to, and produced in the same manner as, inventory property produced by the taxpayer or other property produced by the taxpayer and held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business.
(D)
Self-constructed tangible personal property produced on a routine and repetitive basis—(1) In general.
Self-constructed tangible personal property produced by the taxpayer on a routine and repetitive basis in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business. Self-constructed tangible personal property is produced by the taxpayer on a routine and repetitive basis in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business when units of tangible personal property (as defined in § 1.263A-10(c)) are mass-produced, that is, numerous substantially identical assets are manufactured within a taxable year using standardized designs and assembly line techniques, and either the applicable recovery period of the property determined under section 168(c) is not longer than 3 years or the property is a material or supply that will be used and consumed within 3 years of being produced. For purposes of this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D), the applicable recovery period of the assets will be determined at the end of the taxable year in which the assets are placed in service for purposes of § 1.46-3(d). Subsequent changes to the applicable recovery period after the assets are placed in service will not affect the determination of whether the assets are produced on a routine and repetitive basis for purposes of this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D).
(2)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D):

# Example 1.
Y is a manufacturer of automobiles. During the taxable year Y produces numerous substantially identical dies and molds using standardized designs and assembly line techniques. The dies and molds have a 3-year applicable recovery period for purposes of section 168(c). Y uses the dies and molds to produce or process particular automobile components and does not hold them for sale. The dies and molds are produced on a routine and repetitive basis in the ordinary course of Y's business for purposes of this paragraph because the dies and molds are both mass-produced and have a recovery period of not longer than 3 years.

# Example 2.
Z is an electric utility that regularly manufactures and installs identical poles that are used in transmitting and distributing electricity. The poles have a 20-year applicable recovery period for purposes of section 168(c). The poles are not produced on a routine and repetitive basis in the ordinary course of Z's business for purposes of this paragraph because the poles have an applicable recovery period that is longer than 3 years.
(ii)
Election to exclude self-constructed assets.
At the taxpayer's election, the simplified service cost method may be applied within a trade or business to only the categories of inventory property and non-inventory property held for sale described in paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(A) and(B) of this section. Taxpayers electing to exclude the self-constructed assets described in paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(C) and (D) of this section from application of the simplified service cost method must, however, allocate service costs to such property in accordance with paragraph (g)(4) of this section.
(3)
General allocation formula.
(i) Under the simplified service cost method, a taxpayer computes its capitalizable mixed service costs using the following formula:
EC10OC91.001
(ii) A producer may elect one of two allocation ratios, the labor-based allocation ratio or the production cost allocation ratio. A reseller that satisfies the requirements for using the simplified resale method of § 1.263A-3(d) (whether or not that method is elected) may elect the simplified service cost method, but must use a labor-based allocation ratio. (See § 1.263A-3(d) for labor-based allocation ratios to be used in conjunction with the simplified resale method.) The allocation ratio used by a trade or business of a taxpayer is a method of accounting which must be applied consistently within the trade or business.
(4)
Labor-based allocation ratio.
(i) The labor-based allocation ratio is computed as follows:
EC10OC91.002
(ii) Section 263A labor costs are defined as the total labor costs (excluding labor costs included in mixed service costs) allocable to property produced and property acquired for resale under section 263A that are incurred in the taxpayer's trade or business during the taxable year. Total labor costs are defined as the total labor costs (excluding labor costs included in mixed service costs) incurred in the taxpayer's trade or business during the taxable year. Total labor costs include labor costs incurred in all parts of the trade or business (i.e., if the taxpayer has both property produced and property acquired for resale, the taxpayer must include labor costs from resale activities as well as production activities). For example, taxpayer G incurs $1,000 of total mixed service costs during the taxable year. G's section 263A labor costs are $5,000 and its total labor costs are $10,000. Under the labor-based allocation ratio, G's capitalizable mixed service costs are $500 (i.e., $1,000 × ($5,000 divided by $10,000)).
(5)
Production cost allocation ratio.
(i) Producers may use the production cost allocation ratio, computed as follows:
EC10OC91.003
(ii) Section 263A production costs are defined as the total costs (excluding mixed service costs and interest) allocable to property produced (and property acquired for resale if the producer is also engaged in resale activities) under section 263A that are incurred in the taxpayer's trade or business during the taxable year. Total costs are defined as all costs (excluding mixed service costs and interest) incurred in the taxpayer's trade or business during the taxable year. Total costs include all direct and indirect costs allocable to property produced (and property acquired for resale if the producer is also engaged in resale activities) as well as all other costs of the taxpayer's trade or business, including, but not limited to: salaries and other labor costs of all personnel; all depreciation taken for federal income tax purposes; research and experimental expenditures; and selling, marketing, and distribution costs. Such costs do not include, however, taxes described in paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(F) of this section. For example, taxpayer H, a producer, incurs $1,000 of total mixed service costs in the taxable year. H's section 263A production costs are $10,000 and its total costs are $20,000. Under the production cost allocation ratio, H's capitalizable mixed service costs are $500 (i.e., $1,000 × ($10,000 divided by $20,000)).
(6)
Definition of total mixed service costs.
Total mixed service costs are defined as the total costs incurred during the taxable year in all departments or functions of the taxpayer's trade or business that perform mixed service activities. See paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(C) of this section which defines mixed service costs. In determining the total mixed service costs of a trade or business, the taxpayer must include all costs incurred in its mixed service departments and cannot exclude any otherwise deductible service costs. For example, if the accounting department within a trade or business is a mixed
service department, then in determining the total mixed service costs of the trade or business, the taxpayer cannot exclude the costs of personnel in the accounting department that perform services relating to non-production activities (e.g., accounts receivable or customer billing activities). Instead, the entire cost of the accounting department must be included in the total mixed service costs.
(7)
Costs allocable to more than one business.
To the extent mixed service costs, labor costs, or other costs are incurred in more than one trade or business, the taxpayer must determine the amounts allocable to the particular trade or business for which the simplified service cost method is being applied by using any reasonable allocation method consistent with the principles of paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(8)
De minimis rule.
If the taxpayer elects to apply the de minimis rule of paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section to any mixed service department, the department is not considered a mixed service department for purposes of the simplified service cost method. Instead, the costs of such department are allocated exclusively to the particular activity satisfying the 90-percent test.
(9)
Separate election.
A taxpayer may elect the simplified service cost method in conjunction with any other allocation method used at the trade or business level, including the simplified methods described in §§ 1.263A-2(b) and (c) and 1.263A-3(d). However, the election of the simplified service cost method must be made independently of the election to use those other simplified methods.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Exemption for certain small business taxpayers
—(1)
In general.
A taxpayer, other than a tax shelter prohibited from using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting under section 448(a)(3), that meets the gross receipts test under section 448(c) and § 1.448-2(c) (section 448(c) gross receipts test) for any taxable year (small business taxpayer) is not required to capitalize costs under section 263A to any real or tangible personal property produced, and any real or personal property described in section 1221(a)(1) acquired for resale, during that taxable year. This section 448(c) gross receipts test applies even if the taxpayer is not otherwise subject to section 448(a).
(2)
Application of the section 448(c) gross receipts test
—(i)
In general.
In the case of any taxpayer that is not a corporation or a partnership, and except as provided in paragraphs (j)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the section 448(c) gross receipts test is applied in the same manner as if each trade or business of the taxpayer were a corporation or partnership.
(ii)
Gross receipts of individuals, etc.
Except when the aggregation rules of section 448(c)(2) apply, the gross receipts of a taxpayer other than a corporation or partnership are the amount derived from all trades or businesses of such taxpayer. Amounts not related to a trade or business are excluded from the gross receipts of the taxpayer. For example, an individual taxpayer's gross receipts do not include inherently personal amounts, such as personal injury awards or settlements with respect to an injury of the individual taxpayer, disability benefits, Social Security benefits received by the taxpayer during the taxable year, and wages received as an employee that are reported on Form W-2.
(iii)
Partners and S corporation shareholders.
Except when the aggregation rules of section 448(c)(2) apply, each partner in a partnership includes a share of the partnership's gross receipts in proportion to such partner's distributive share, as determined under section 704, of items of gross income that were taken into account by the partnership under section 703. Similarly, a shareholder of an S corporation includes such shareholder's
pro rata
share of S corporation gross receipts taken into account by the S corporation under section 1363(b).
(iv)
Examples.
The operation of this paragraph (j) is illustrated by the following examples:
(A)
Example 1.
Taxpayer A is an individual who operates two separate and distinct trades or business that are reported on Schedule C,
Profit or Loss from Business,
of A's Federal income tax return. For 2020, one trade or business has annual average gross receipts of $5 million, and the other trade or
business has average annual gross receipts of $35 million. Under paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section, for 2020, neither of A's trades or businesses meets the gross receipts test of paragraph (j)(2) of this section ($5 million + $35 million = $40 million, which is greater than the inflation-adjusted gross receipts test amount for 2020, which is $26 million).
(B)
Example 2.
Taxpayer B is an individual who operates three separate and distinct trades or business that are reported on Schedule C of B's Federal income tax return. For 2020, Business X is a retail store with average annual gross receipts of $15 million, Business Y is a dance studio with average annual gross receipts of $6 million, and Business Z is a car repair shop with average annual gross receipts of $12 million. Under paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section, B's gross receipts are the combined amount derived from all three of B's trades or businesses. Therefore, for 2020, X, Y and Z do not meet the gross receipts test of paragraph (j)(2)(i) of this section ($15 million + $6 million + $12 million = $33 million, which is greater than the inflation-adjusted gross receipts test amount for 2020, which is $26 million).
(3)
Change in method of accounting
—(i)
In general.
A change from applying the small business taxpayer exemption under paragraph (j) of this section to not applying the exemption under this paragraph (j), or
vice versa,
is a change in method of accounting under section 446(e) and § 1.446-1(e). A taxpayer changing its method of accounting under paragraph (j) of this section may do so only with the consent of the Commissioner as required under section 446(e) and § 1.446-1. In the case of any taxpayer required by this section to change its method of accounting for any taxable year, the change shall be treated as a change initiated by the taxpayer. For rules relating to the clear reflection of income and the pattern of consistent treatment of an item, see section 446 and § 1.446-1. The amount of the net section 481(a) adjustment and the adjustment period necessary to implement a change in method of accounting required under this section are determined under § 1.446-1(e) and the applicable administrative procedures to obtain the Commissioner's consent to change a method of accounting as published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see Revenue Procedure 2015-13 (2015-5 IRB 419) (or successor) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter).
(ii)
Automatic consent for certain method changes.
Certain changes in method of accounting made under paragraph (j) of this section may be made under the procedures to obtain the automatic consent of the Commissioner to change a method of accounting. See Revenue Procedure 2015-13 (2015-5 IRB 419) (or successor) (see also § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter)). In certain situations, special terms and conditions may apply.
(k)
Special rules
—(1)
Costs provided by a related person
—(i)
In general.
A taxpayer subject to section 263A must capitalize an arm's-length charge for any section 263A costs (e.g., costs of materials, labor, or services) incurred by a related person that are properly allocable to the property produced or property acquired for resale by the taxpayer. Both the taxpayer and the related person must account for the transaction as if an arm's-length charge had been incurred by the taxpayer with respect to its property produced or property acquired for resale. For purposes of this paragraph (j)(1)(i), a taxpayer is considered related to another person if the taxpayer and such person are described in section 482. Further, for purposes of this paragraph (j)(1)(i), arm's-length charge means the arm's-length charge (or other appropriate charge where permitted and applicable) under the principles of section 482. Any correlative adjustments necessary because of the arm's-length charge requirement of this paragraph (j)(1)(i) shall be determined under the principles of section 482.
(ii)
Exceptions.
The provisions of paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section do not apply if, and to the extent that—
(A) It would be inappropriate under the principles of section 482 for the Commissioner to adjust the income of the taxpayer or the related person with respect to the transaction at issue; or
(B) A transaction is accounted for under an alternative Internal Revenue Code section resulting in the capitalization (or deferral of the deduction) of the costs of the items provided by the
related party and the related party does not deduct such costs earlier than the costs would have been deducted by the taxpayer if the costs were capitalized under section 263A. See § 1.1502-13.
(2)
Optional capitalization of period costs
—(i)
In general.
Taxpayers are not required to capitalize indirect costs that do not directly benefit or are not incurred by reason of the production of property or acquisition of property for resale (i.e., period costs). A taxpayer may, however, elect to capitalize certain period costs if: The method is consistently applied; is used in computing beginning inventories, ending inventories, and cost of goods sold; and does not result in a material distortion of the taxpayer's income. A material distortion relates to the source, character, amount, or timing of the cost capitalized or any other item affected by the capitalization of the cost. Thus, for example, a taxpayer may not capitalize a period cost under section 263A if capitalization would result in a material change in the computation of the foreign tax credit limitation under section 904. An election to capitalize a period cost is the adoption of (or a change in) a method of accounting under section 446 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(ii)
Period costs eligible for capitalization.
The types of period costs eligible for capitalization under this paragraph (j)(2) include only the types of period costs (e.g., under paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section) for which some portion of the costs incurred is properly allocable to property produced or property acquired for resale in the year of the election. Thus, for example, marketing or advertising costs, no portion of which are properly allocable to property produced or property acquired for resale, do not qualify for elective capitalization under this paragraph (j)(2).
(3)
Trade or business application.
Notwithstanding the references generally to taxpayer throughout this section and §§ 1.263A-2 and 1.263A-3, the methods of accounting provided under section 263A are to be elected and applied independently for each separate and distinct trade or business of the taxpayer in accordance with the provisions of section 446(d) and the regulations thereunder.
(4)
Transfers with a principal purpose of tax avoidance.
The District Director may require appropriate adjustments to valuations of inventory and other property subject to section 263A if a transfer of property is made to another person for a principal purpose of avoiding the application of section 263A. Thus, for example, the District Director may require a taxpayer using the simplified production method of § 1.263A-2(b) to apply that method to transferred inventories immediately prior to a transfer under section 351 if a principal purpose of the transfer is to avoid the application of section 263A.
(l)
Change in method of accounting
—(1)
In general.
A change in a taxpayer's treatment of mixed service costs to comply with paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section is a change in method of accounting to which the provisions of sections 446 and 481 and the regulations under those sections apply. See § 1.263A-7. For a taxpayer's first taxable year ending on or after August 2, 2005, the taxpayer is granted the consent of the Commissioner to change its method of accounting to comply with paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section, provided the taxpayer follows the administrative procedures, as modified by paragraphs (k)(2) through (4) of this section, issued under § 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) for obtaining the Commissioner's automatic consent to a change in accounting method (for further guidance, for example, see Rev. Proc. 2002-9 (2002-1 CB 327), as modified and clarified by Announcement 2002-17 (2002-1 CB 561), modified and amplified by Rev. Proc. 2002-19 (2002-1 CB 696), and amplified, clarified, and modified by Rev. Proc. 2002-54 (2002-2 CB 432), and § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter). For purposes of Form 3115, “Application for Change in Accounting Method,” the designated number for the automatic accounting method change authorized by this paragraph (k) is “95.” If Form 3115 is revised or renumbered, any reference in this section to that form is treated as a reference to the revised or renumbered form. Alternatively, notwithstanding the provisions of any administrative procedures that preclude a taxpayer from requesting the advance consent of the Commissioner to change a method of accounting that is
required to be made pursuant to a published automatic change procedure, for its first taxable year ending on or after August 2, 2005, a taxpayer may request the advance consent of the Commissioner to change its method of accounting to comply with paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section, provided the taxpayer follows the administrative procedures, as modified by paragraphs (k)(2) through (5) of this section, for obtaining the advance consent of the Commissioner (for further guidance, for example, see Rev. Proc. 97-27 (1997-1 CB 680), as modified and amplified by Rev. Proc. 2002-19 (2002-1 CB 696), as amplified and clarified by Rev. Proc. 2002-54 (2002-2 CB 432), and § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter). For the taxpayer's second and subsequent taxable years ending on or after August 2, 2005, requests to secure the consent of the Commissioner must be made under the administrative procedures, as modified by paragraphs (k)(3) and (4) of this section, for obtaining the Commissioner's advance consent to a change in accounting method.
(2)
Scope limitations.
Any limitations on obtaining the automatic consent or advance consent of the Commissioner do not apply to a taxpayer seeking to change its method of accounting to comply with paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section for its first taxable year ending on or after August 2, 2005.
(3)
Audit protection.
A taxpayer that changes its method of accounting in accordance with this paragraph (k) to comply with paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section does not receive audit protection if its method of accounting for mixed service costs is an issue under consideration at the time the application is filed with the national office.
(4)
Section 481(a) adjustment.
A change in method of accounting to conform to paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section requires a section 481(a) adjustment. The section 481(a) adjustment period is two taxable years for a net positive adjustment for an accounting method change that is made to conform to paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
(5)
Time for requesting change.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 1.446-1(e)(3)(i) and any contrary administrative procedure, a taxpayer may submit a request for advance consent to change its method of accounting to comply with paragraph (h)(2)(i)(D) of this section for its first taxable year ending on or after August 2, 2005, on or before the date that is 30 days after the end of the taxable year for which the change is requested.
(m)
Effective/applicability date
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in (l)(2), (l)(3), and (l)(4) of this section, the effective dates for this section are provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Mixed service costs; self-constructed tangible personal property produced on a routine and repetitive basis.
Paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(D), (k), and (l)(2) of this section apply for taxable years ending on or after August 2, 2005.
(3)
Costs allocable to property sold; indirect costs; licensing and franchise costs.
Paragraphs (c)(5), (e)(3)(i), and (e)(3)(ii)(U) of this section apply for taxable years ending on or after January 13, 2014.
(4)
Materials and supplies
—(i)
In general.
The last sentence of paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) and (e)(3)(ii)(E) of this section, and paragraph (l)(4) of this section apply to amounts paid (to acquire or produce property) in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2014.
(ii)
Early application of this section.
A taxpayer may choose to apply the last sentence of paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) and (e)(3)(ii)(E) of this section, and paragraph (l)(4) of this section to amounts paid (to acquire or produce property) in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012.
(iii)
Optional application of TD 9564.
A taxpayer may choose to apply § 1.263A-1T(b)(14), the introductory phrase of § 1.263A-1T(c)(4), the last sentence of § 1.263A-1T(e)(2)(i)(A), the last sentence of § 1.263A-1T(e)(3)(ii)(E), § 1.263A-1T(l), and § 1.263A-1T(m)(2), as these provisions are contained in TD 9564 (76 FR 81060) December 27, 2011, to amounts paid (to acquire or produce property) in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, and before January 1, 2014.
(5)
Definitions of section 471 costs and additional section 263A costs.
Paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section apply for taxable years beginning on or after November 20, 2018. For any taxable year that both begins before November 20,
2018 and ends after November 20, 2018, the IRS will not challenge return positions consistent with all of paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section.
(6)
Exemption for certain small business taxpayers.
The second and third sentence in paragraph (a)(2)(i), paragraphs (b)(1) and (j) of this section apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 5, 2021. However, for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 5, 2021, a taxpayer may apply the paragraphs described in the first sentence of this paragraph (m)(6), provided that the taxpayer follows all the applicable rules contained in the regulations under section 263A for such taxable year and all subsequent taxable years.
[T.D. 8482, 58 FR 42209, Aug. 9, 1993]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 1.263A-1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 1.263A-2
Rules relating to property produced by the taxpayer.
(a)
In general.
Section 263A applies to real property and tangible personal property produced by a taxpayer for use in its trade or business or for sale to its customers. In addition, section 263A applies to property produced for a taxpayer under a contract with another party. The principal terms related to the scope of section 263A with respect to producers are provided in this paragraph (a). See § 1.263A-1(b)(11) for an exception in the case of certain de minimis property provided to customers incident to the provision of services. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, see § 1.263A-1(j) for an exception in the case of a small business taxpayer that meets the gross receipts test of section 448(c) and § 1.448-2(c).
(1)
Produce
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of section 263A, produce includes the following: construct, build, install, manufacture, develop, improve, create, raise, or grow.
(ii)
Ownership
—(A)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) (B) and (C) of this section, a taxpayer is not considered to be producing property unless the taxpayer is considered an owner of the property produced under federal income tax principles. The determination as to whether a taxpayer is an owner is based on all of the facts and circumstances, including the various benefits and burdens of ownership vested with the taxpayer. A taxpayer may be considered an owner of property produced, even though the taxpayer does not have legal title to the property.
(B)
Property produced for the taxpayer under a contract
—(
1
)
In general.
Property produced for the taxpayer under a contract with another party is treated as property produced by the taxpayer to the extent the taxpayer makes payments or otherwise incurs costs with respect to the property. A taxpayer has made payment under this section if the transaction would be considered payment by a taxpayer using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting.
(
2
)
Definition of a contract
—(
i
)
General rule.
Except as provided under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
ii
) of this section, a contract is any agreement providing for the production of property if the agreement is entered into before the production of the property to be delivered under the contract is completed. Whether an agreement exists depends on all the facts and circumstances. Facts and circumstances indicating an agreement include, for example, the making of a prepayment, or an arrangement to make a prepayment, for property prior to the date of the completion of production of the property, or the incurring of significant expenditures for property of specialized design or specialized application that is not intended for self-use.
(
ii
)
Routine purchase order exception.
A routine purchase order for fungible property is not treated as a contract for purposes of this section. An agreement will not be treated as a routine purchase order for fungible property, however, if the contractor is required to make more than de minimis modifications to the property to tailor it to the customer's specific needs, or if at the time the agreement is entered into, the customer knows or has reason to know that the contractor cannot satisfy the agreement within 30 days out of existing stocks and normal production of finished goods.
(C) Home construction contracts. Section 263A applies to a home construction contract unless that contract will be completed within two years of the contract commencement date, and, for contracts entered into after December 31, 2017, in taxable years ending after December 31, 2017, the taxpayer meets the gross receipts test of section 448(c) and § 1.448-2(c) for the taxable year in which such contract is entered into. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C), section 263A applies to such a contract even if the contractor is not considered the owner of the property produced under the contract under Federal income tax principles.
(2)
Tangible personal property
—(i)
General rule.
In general, section 263A applies to the costs of producing tangible personal property, and not to the costs of producing intangible property. For example, section 263A applies to the costs manufacturers incur to produce goods, but does not apply to the costs financial institutions incur to originate loans.
(ii)
Intellectual or creative property.
For purposes of determining whether a taxpayer producing intellectual or creative property is producing tangible personal property or intangible property, the term tangible personal property includes films, sound recordings, video tapes, books, and other similar property embodying words, ideas, concepts, images, or sounds by the creator thereof. Other similar property for this purpose generally means intellectual or creative property for which, as costs are incurred in producing the property, it is intended (or is reasonably likely) that any tangible medium in which the property is embodied will be mass distributed by the creator or any one or more third parties in a form that is not substantially altered. However, any intellectual or creative property that is embodied in a tangible medium that is mass distributed merely incident to the distribution of a principal product or good of the creator is not other similar property for these purposes.
(A)
Intellectual or creative property that is tangible personal property.
Section 263A applies to tangible personal property defined in this paragraph (a)(2) without regard to whether such property is treated as tangible or intangible property under other sections of the Internal Revenue Code. Thus, for example, section 263A applies to the costs of producing a motion picture or researching and writing a book even though these assets may be considered intangible for other purposes of the Internal Revenue Code. Tangible personal property includes, for example, the following:
(
1
)
Books.
The costs of producing and developing books (including teaching aids and other literary works) required to be capitalized under this section include costs incurred by an author in researching, preparing, and writing the book. (However, see section 263A(h), which provides an exemption from the capitalization requirements of section 263A in the case of certain free-lance authors.) In addition, the costs of producing and developing books include prepublication expenditures incurred by publishers, including payments made to authors (other than commissions for sales of books that have already taken place), as well as costs incurred by publishers in writing, editing, compiling, illustrating, designing, and developing the books. The costs of producing a book also include the costs of producing the underlying manuscript, copyright, or license. (These costs are distinguished from the separately capitalizable costs of printing and binding the tangible medium embodying the book (e.g., paper and ink).) See § 1.174-2(a)(1), which provides that the term research or experimental expenditures does not include expenditures incurred for research in connection with literary, historical, or similar projects.
(
2
)
Sound recordings.
A sound recording is a work that results from the fixation of a series of musical, spoken, or other sounds, regardless of the nature of the material objects, such as discs, tapes, or other phonorecordings, in which such sounds are embodied.
(B)
Intellectual or creative property that is not tangible personal property.
Items that are not considered tangible personal property within the meaning of section 263A(b) and paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section include:
(
1
)
Evidences of value.
Tangible personal property does not include property that is representative or evidence of value, such as stock, securities, debt instruments, mortgages, or loans.
(
2
)
Property provided incident to services.
Tangible personal property does not include de minimis property provided to a client or customer incident to the provision of services, such as wills prepared by attorneys, or blueprints prepared by architects. See § 1.263A-1(b)(11).
(3)
Costs required to be capitalized by producers
—(i)
In general.
Except as specifically provided in section 263A(f) with respect to interest costs, producers must capitalize direct and indirect costs properly allocable to property produced under section 263A, without regard to whether those costs are incurred before, during, or after the production period (as defined in section 263A(f)(4)(B)).
(ii)
Pre-production costs.
If property is held for future production, taxpayers must capitalize direct and indirect costs allocable to such property (e.g., purchasing, storage, handling, and other costs), even though production has not begun. If property is not held for production, indirect costs incurred prior to the beginning of the production period must be allocated to the property and capitalized if, at the time the costs are incurred, it is reasonably likely that production will occur at some future date. Thus, for example, a manufacturer must capitalize the costs of storing and handling raw materials before the raw materials are committed to production. In addition, a real estate developer must capitalize property taxes incurred with respect to property if, at the time the taxes are incurred, it is reasonably likely that the property will be subsequently developed.
(iii)
Post-production costs.
Generally, producers must capitalize all indirect costs incurred subsequent to completion of production that are properly allocable to the property produced. Thus, for example, storage and handling costs incurred while holding the property produced for sale after production must be capitalized to the property to the extent properly allocable to the property. However, see § 1.263A-3(c) for exceptions.
(4)
Practical capacity concept.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, the use, directly or indirectly, of the practical capacity concept is not permitted under section 263A. For purposes of section 263A, the term practical capacity concept means any concept, method, procedure, or formula (such as the practical capacity concept described in § 1.471-11(d)(4)) whereunder fixed costs are not capitalized because of the relationship between the actual production at the taxpayer's production facility and the practical capacity of the facility. For purposes of this section, the practical capacity of a facility includes either the practical capacity or theoretical capacity of the facility, as defined in § 1.471-11(d)(4), or any similar determination of productive or operating capacity. The practical capacity concept may not be used with respect to any activity to which section 263A applies (i.e., production or resale activities). A taxpayer shall not be considered to be using the practical capacity concept solely because the taxpayer properly does not capitalize costs described in § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(iii)(E), relating to certain costs attributable to temporarily idle equipment.
(5)
Taxpayers required to capitalize costs under this section.
This section generally applies to taxpayers that produce property. If a taxpayer is engaged in both production activities and resale activities, the taxpayer applies the principles of this section as if it read production or resale activities, and by applying appropriate principles from § 1.263A-3. If a taxpayer is engaged in both production and resale activities, the taxpayer may elect the simplified production method or the modified simplified production method provided in this section, but generally may not elect the simplified resale method discussed in § 1.263A-3(d). If elected, the simplified production method or the modified simplified production method must be applied to all eligible property produced and all eligible property acquired for resale by the taxpayer.
(b)
Simplified production method
—(1)
Introduction.
This paragraph (b) provides a simplified method for determining the additional section 263A costs properly allocable to ending inventories of property produced and other eligible property on hand at the end of the taxable year.
(2)
Eligible property
—(i)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the simplified production method, if elected for any trade or business of a producer, must be used for all production and resale activities associated with any of the following categories of property to which section 263A applies:
(A)
Inventory property.
Stock in trade or other property properly includible in the inventory of the taxpayer.
(B)
Non-inventory property held for sale.
Non-inventory property held by a taxpayer primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business.
(C)
Certain self-constructed assets.
Self-constructed assets substantially identical in nature to, and produced in the same manner as, inventory property produced by the taxpayer or other property produced by the taxpayer and held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business.
(D)
Self-constructed tangible personal property produced on a routine and repetitive basis—(1) In general.
Self-constructed tangible personal property produced by the taxpayer on a routine and repetitive basis in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business. Self-constructed tangible personal property is produced by the taxpayer on a routine and repetitive basis in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business when units of tangible personal property (as defined in § 1.263A-10(c)) are mass-produced, that is, numerous substantially identical assets are manufactured within a taxable year using standardized designs and assembly line techniques, and either the applicable recovery period of the property determined under section 168(c) is not longer than 3 years or the property is a material or supply that will be used and consumed within 3 years of being produced. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D), the applicable recovery period of the assets will be determined at the end of the taxable year in which the assets are placed in service for purposes of § 1.46-3(d). Subsequent changes to the applicable recovery period after the assets are placed in service will not affect the determination of whether the assets are produced on a routine and repetitive basis for purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D).
(2)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D):

# Example 1.
Y is a manufacturer of automobiles. During the taxable year Y produces numerous substantially identical dies and molds using standardized designs and assembly line techniques. The dies and molds have a 3-year applicable recovery period for purposes of section 168(c). Y uses the dies and molds to produce or process particular automobile components and does not hold them for sale. The dies and molds are produced on a routine and repetitive basis in the ordinary course of Y's business for purposes of this paragraph because the dies and molds are both mass-produced and have a recovery period of not longer than 3 years.

# Example 2.
Z is an electric utility that regularly manufactures and installs identical poles that are used in transmitting and distributing electricity. The poles have a 20-year applicable recovery period for purposes of section 168(c). The poles are not produced on a routine and repetitive basis in the ordinary course of Z's business for purposes of this paragraph because the poles have an applicable recovery period that is longer than 3 years.
(ii)
Election to exclude self-constructed assets.
At the taxpayer's election, the simplified production method may be applied within a trade or business to only the categories of inventory property and non-inventory property held for sale described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) (A) and (B) of this section. Taxpayers electing to exclude the self- constructed assets, defined in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) (C) and (D) of this section, from application of the simplified production method must, however, allocate additional section 263A costs to such property in accordance with § 1.263A-1 (f).
(3)
Simplified production method without historic absorption ratio election
—(i)
General allocation formula
—(A)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, the additional section 263A costs allocable
to eligible property remaining on hand at the close of the taxable year under the simplified production method are computed as follows:
EC10OC91.004
(B)
Effect of allocation.
The absorption ratio generally is multiplied by the section 471 costs remaining in ending inventory or otherwise on hand at the end of each taxable year in which the simplified production method is applied. The resulting product is the additional section 263A costs that are added to the taxpayer's ending section 471 costs to determine the section 263A costs that are capitalized. See, however, paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section for special rules applicable to LIFO taxpayers. Except as otherwise provided in this section or in § 1.263A-1 or 1.263A-3, additional section 263A costs that are allocated to inventories on hand at the close of the taxable year under the simplified production method of this paragraph (b) are treated as inventory costs for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code.
(ii)
Definitions
—(A)
Absorption ratio.
Under the simplified production method, the absorption ratio is determined as follows:
EC10OC91.005
(
1
)
Additional section 263A costs incurred during the taxable year.
Additional section 263A costs incurred during the taxable year are defined as the additional section 263A costs described in § 1.263A-1(d)(3) that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year.
(
2
)
Section 471 costs incurred during the taxable year.
Section 471 costs incurred during the taxable year are defined as the section 471 costs described in § 1.263A-1(d)(2) that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year.
(B)
Section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end.
Section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end means the section 471 costs, as defined in § 1.263A-1(d)(2), that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year which remain in its ending inventory or are otherwise on hand at year end. For LIFO inventories of a taxpayer, the section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end means the increment, if any, for the current year stated in terms of section 471 costs. See paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
(C)
Costs allocated to property sold.
Additional section 263A costs incurred during the taxable year, as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A)(
1
) of this section, section 471 costs incurred during the taxable year, as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section, and section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end, as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, do not include costs described in § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(ii) or cost reductions described in § 1.471-3(e) that a taxpayer properly allocates entirely to property that has been sold.
(iii)
LIFO taxpayers electing the simplified production method
—(A)
In general.
Under the simplified production method, a taxpayer using a LIFO method must calculate a particular year's index (e.g., under § 1.472-8(e)) without regard to its additional section 263A costs. Similarly, a taxpayer that adjusts current-year costs by applicable indexes to determine whether there has been an inventory increment or decrement in the current year for a particular LIFO pool must disregard the additional section 263A costs in making that determination.
(B)
LIFO increment.
If the taxpayer determines there has been an inventory increment, the taxpayer must state the amount of the increment in current-year dollars (stated in terms of section
471 costs). The taxpayer then multiplies this amount by the absorption ratio. The resulting product is the additional section 263A costs that must be added to the taxpayer's increment for the year stated in terms of section 471 costs.
(C)
LIFO decrement.
If the taxpayer determines there has been an inventory decrement, the taxpayer must state the amount of the decrement in dollars applicable to the particular year for which the LIFO layer has been invaded. The additional section 263A costs incurred in prior years that are applicable to the decrement are charged to cost of goods sold. The additional section 263A costs that are applicable to the decrement are determined by multiplying the additional section 263A costs allocated to the layer of the pool in which the decrement occurred by the ratio of the decrement (excluding additional section 263A costs) to the section 471 costs in the layer of that pool.
(iv)
De minimis rule for producers with total indirect costs of $200,000 or less
—(A)
In general.
If a producer using the simplified production method incurs $200,000 or less of total indirect costs in a taxable year, the additional section 263A costs allocable to eligible property remaining on hand at the close of the taxable year are deemed to be zero. Solely for purposes of this paragraph (b)(3)(iv), taxpayers are permitted to exclude any category of indirect costs (listed in § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(iii)) that is not required to be capitalized (e.g., selling and distribution costs) in determining total indirect costs.
(B)
Related party and aggregation rules.
In determining whether the producer incurs $200,000 or less of total indirect costs in a taxable year, the related party and aggregation rules of § 1.263A-3(b)(3) are applied by substituting total indirect costs for gross receipts wherever gross receipts appears.
(v)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (b) are illustrated by the following examples.

# Example 1. FIFO inventory method.
(i) Taxpayer J uses the FIFO method of accounting for inventories. J's beginning inventory for 1994 (all of which is sold during 1994) is $2,500,000 (consisting of $2,000,000 of section 471 costs and $500,000 of additional section 263A costs). During 1994, J incurs $10,000,000 of section 471 costs and $1,000,000 of additional section 263A costs. J's additional section 263A costs include capitalizable mixed service costs computed under the simplified service cost method as well as other allocable costs. J's section 471 costs remaining in ending inventory at the end of 1994 are $3,000,000. J computes its absorption ratio for 1994, as follows:
EC10OC91.006
(ii) Under the simplified production method, J determines the additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory by multiplying the absorption ratio by the section 471 costs remaining in its ending inventory:
EC10OC91.007
(iii) J adds this $300,000 to the $3,000,000 of section 471 costs remaining in its ending inventory to calculate its total ending inventory of $3,300,000. The balance of J's additional section 263A costs incurred during 1994, $700,000, ($1,000,000 less $300,000) is taken into account in 1994 as part of J's cost of goods sold.

# Example 2. LIFO inventory method.
(i) Taxpayer K uses a dollar-value LIFO inventory method. K's beginning inventory for 1994 is $2,500,000 (consisting of $2,000,000 of section 471 costs and $500,000 of additional section 263A costs). During 1994, K incurs $10,000,000 of section 471 costs and $1,000,000 of additional section 263A costs. K's 1994 LIFO increment is $1,000,000 ($3,000,000 of section 471
costs in ending inventory less $2,000,000 of section 471 costs in beginning inventory).
(ii) To determine the additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory, K multiplies the 10% absorption ratio ($1,000,000 of additional section 263A costs divided by $10,000,000 of section 471 costs) by the $1,000,000 LIFO increment. Thus, K's additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory are $100,000 ($1,000,000 multiplied by 10%). This $100,000 is added to the $1,000,000 to determine a total 1994 LIFO increment of $1,100,000. K's ending inventory is $3,600,000 (its beginning inventory of $2,500,000 plus the $1,100,000 increment). The balance of K's additional section 263A costs incurred during 1994, $900,000 ($1,000,000 less $100,000), is taken into account in 1994 as part of K's cost of goods sold.
(iii) In 1995, K sells one-half of the inventory in its 1994 LIFO increment. K must include in its cost of goods sold for 1995 the amount of additional section 263A costs relating to this inventory, $50,000 (one-half of the tional section 263A costs capitalized in 1994 ending inventory, or $100,000).

# Example 3. LIFO pools.
(i) Taxpayer U begins its business in 1994 and adopts the LIFO inventory method. During 1994, L incurs $10,000 of section 471 costs and $1,000 of additional section 263A costs. At the end of 1994, L's ending inventory includes $3,000 of section 471 costs contained in three LIFO pools (X, Y, and Z) as shown below. Under the simplified production method, L computes its absorption ratio and inventory for 1994 as follows:
EC10OC91.008
Total
X
Y
Z
1994:
Ending section 471 costs
$3,000
$1,600
$600
$800
Additional section 263A costs (10%)
300
160
60
80
1994 ending inventory
$3,300
$1,760
$660
$880
(ii) During 1995, L incurs $2,000 of section 471 costs as shown below and $400 of additional section 263A costs. Moreover, L sells goods from pools X, Y, and Z having a total cost of $1,000. L computes its absorption ratio and inventory for 1995:
EC10OC91.009
Total
X
Y
Z
1995:
Beginning section 471 costs
$3,000
$1,600
$600
$800
1995 section 471 costs
2,000
1,500
300
200
Section 471 cost of goods sold
(1,000)
(300)
(300)
(400)
1995 ending section 471 costs
$4,000
$2,800
$600
$600
Consisting of:
1994 layer
$2,800
$1,600
$600
$600
1995 layer
1,200
1,200
$4,000
$2,800
$600
$600
Additional section 263A costs:
1994 (10%)
$280
$160
$60
$60
1995 (20%)
240
240
$520
$400
$60
$60
1995 ending inventory
$4,520
$3,200
$660
$660
(iii) In 1995, L experiences a $200 decrement in pool Z. Thus, L must charge the additional section 263A costs incurred in prior years applicable to the decrement to 1995's cost of goods sold. To do so, L determines a ratio by dividing the decrement by the section 471 costs in the 1994 layer ($200 divided by $800, or 25%). L then multiplies this ratio (25%) by the additional section 263A costs in the 1994 layer ($80) to determine the additional section 263A costs applicable to the decrement ($20). Therefore, $20 is taken into account by L in 1995 as part of its cost of goods sold ($80 multiplied by 25%).
(4)
Simplified production method with historic absorption ratio election
—(i)
In general.
This paragraph (b)(4) generally permits producers using the simplified production method to elect a historic absorption ratio in determining additional section 263A costs allocable to eligible property remaining on hand at the close of their taxable years. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section, a taxpayer may only make a historic absorption ratio election if it has used the simplified production method for three or more consecutive taxable years immediately prior to the year of election and has capitalized additional section 263A costs using an actual absorption ratio (as defined under
paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section) for its three most recent consecutive taxable years. This method is not available to a taxpayer that is deemed to have zero additional section 263A costs under paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section. The historic absorption ratio is used in lieu of an actual absorption ratio computed under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section and is based on costs capitalized by a taxpayer during its test period. If elected, the historic absorption ratio must be used for each taxable year within the qualifying period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section.
(ii)
Operating rules and definitions
—(A)
Historic absorption ratio.
(
1
) The historic absorption ratio is equal to the following ratio:
EC10OC91.010
(
2
) Additional section 263A costs incurred during the test period are defined as the additional section 263A costs described in § 1.263A-1(d)(3) that the taxpayer incurs during the test period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(
3
) Section 471 costs incurred during the test period mean the section 471 costs described in § 1.263A-1(d)(2) that the taxpayer incurs during the test period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(
4
) Additional section 263A costs incurred during the test period, as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A)(
2
) of this section, and section 471 costs incurred during the test period, as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A)(
3
) of this section, do not include costs specifically described in § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(ii) or cost reductions described in § 1.471-3(e) that a taxpayer properly allocates entirely to property that has been sold.
(
B
)
Test period—(1) In general.
The test period is generally the three taxable-year period immediately prior to the taxable year that the historic absorption ratio is elected.
(
2
)
Updated test period.
The test period begins again with the beginning of the first taxable year after the close of a qualifying period. This new test period, the updated test period, is the three taxable-year period beginning with the first taxable year after the close of the qualifying period as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section.
(C)
Qualifying period
—(
1
)
In general.
A qualifying period includes each of the first five taxable years beginning with the first taxable year after a test period (or an updated test period).
(
2
)
Extension of qualifying period.
In the first taxable year following the close of each qualifying period, (e.g., the sixth taxable year following the test period), the taxpayer must compute the actual absorption ratio under
the simplified production method. If the actual absorption ratio computed for this taxable year (the recomputation year) is within one-half of one percentage point (plus or minus) of the historic absorption ratio used in determining capitalizable costs for the qualifying period (i.e., the previous five taxable years), the qualifying period is extended to include the recomputation year and the following five taxable years, and the taxpayer must continue to use the historic absorption ratio throughout the extended qualifying period. If, however, the actual absorption ratio computed for the recomputation year is not within one-half of one percentage point (plus or minus) of the historic absorption ratio, the taxpayer must use actual absorption ratios beginning with the recomputation year under the simplified production method and throughout the updated test period. The taxpayer must resume using the historic absorption ratio (determined with reference to the updated test period) in the third taxable year following the recomputation year.
(iii)
Method of accounting
—(A)
Adoption and use.
The election to use the historic absorption ratio is a method of accounting. A taxpayer using the simplified production method may elect the historic absorption ratio in any taxable year if permitted under this paragraph (b)(4), provided the taxpayer has not obtained the Commissioner's consent to revoke the historic absorption ratio election within its prior six taxable years. The election is to be effected on a cut-off basis, and thus, no adjustment under section 481(a) is required or permitted. The use of a historic absorption ratio has no effect on other methods of accounting adopted by the taxpayer and used in conjunction with the simplified production method in determining its section 263A costs. Accordingly, in computing its actual absorption ratios, the taxpayer must use the same methods of accounting used in computing its historic absorption ratio during its most recent test period unless the taxpayer obtains the consent of the Commissioner. Finally, for purposes of this paragraph (b)(4)(iii), the recomputation of the historic absorption ratio during an updated test period and the change from a historic absorption ratio to an actual absorption ratio by reason of the requirements of this paragraph (b)(4) are not considered changes in methods of accounting under section 446(e) and, thus, do not require the consent of the Commissioner or any adjustments under section 481(a).
(B)
Revocation of election.
A taxpayer may only revoke its election to use the historic absorption ratio with the consent of the Commissioner in a manner prescribed under section 446(e) and the regulations thereunder. Consent to the change for any taxable year that is included in the qualifying period (or an extended qualifying period) will be granted only upon a showing of unusual circumstances.
(iv)
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements
—(A)
Reporting.
A taxpayer making an election under this paragraph (b)(4) must attach a statement to its federal income tax return for the taxable year in which the election is made showing the actual absorption ratios determined under the simplified production method during its first test period. This statement must disclose the historic absorption ratio to be used by the taxpayer during its qualifying period. A similar statement must be attached to the federal income tax return for the first taxable year within any subsequent qualifying period (i.e., after an updated test period).
(B)
Recordkeeping.
A taxpayer must maintain all appropriate records and details supporting the historic absorption ratio until the expiration of the statute of limitations for the last year for which the taxpayer applied the particular historic absorption ratio in determining additional section 263A costs capitalized to eligible property.
(v)(A)
Transition to elect historic absorption ratio.
Taxpayers will be permitted to elect a historic absorption ratio in their first, second, or third taxable year beginning after December 31, 1993, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Commissioner. Taxpayers are eligible to make an election under these transition rules whether or not they previously used the simplified production method. A taxpayer making such an election must recompute (or compute) its additional section 263A costs, and
thus, its historic absorption ratio for its first test period as if the rules prescribed in this section and §§ 1.263A-1 and 1.263A-3 had applied throughout the test period.
(B)
Transition to revoke historic absorption ratio.
Notwithstanding the requirements provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section regarding revocations of the historic absorption ratio during a qualifying period, a taxpayer will be permitted to revoke the historic absorption ratio in their first, second, or third taxable year ending on or after
November 20, 2018,
under such administrative procedures and with terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner.
(vi)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (b)(4) are illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
(i) Taxpayer M uses the FIFO method of accounting for inventories and for 1994 elects to use the historic absorption ratio with the simplified production method. After recomputing its additional section 263A costs in accordance with the transition rules of paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section, M identifies the following costs incurred during the test period:
1991:
Add'l section 263A costs—$100
Section 471 costs—$3,000
1992:
Add'l section 263A costs—$200
Section 471 costs—$4,000
1993:
Add'l section 263A costs—$300
Section 471 costs—$5,000
(ii) Therefore, M computes a 5% historic absorption ratio determined as follows:
EC10OC91.011
(iii) In 1994, M incurs $10,000 of section 471 costs of which $3,000 remain in inventory at the end of the year. Under the simplified production method using a historic absorption ratio, M determines the additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory by multiplying its historic absorption ratio (5%) by the section 471 costs remaining in its ending inventory as follows:
EC10OC91.012
(iv) To determine its ending inventory under section 263A, M adds the additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory to its section 471 costs remaining in ending inventory ($3,150 = $150 + $3,000). The balance of M's additional section 263A costs incurred during 1994 is taken into account in 1994 as part of M's cost of goods sold.
(v) M's qualifying period ends with the close of its 1998 taxable year. Therefore, 1999 is a recomputation year in which M must compute its actual absorption ratio. M determines its actual absorption ratio for 1999 to be 5.25% and compares that ratio to its historic absorption ratio (5.0%). Therefore, M must continue to use its historic absorption ratio of 5.0% throughout an extended qualifying period, 1999 through 2004 (the recomputation year and the following five taxable years).
(vi) If, instead, M's actual absorption ratio for 1999 were not between 4.5% and 5.5%, M's qualifying period would end and M would be required to compute a new historic absorption ratio with reference to an updated test period of 1999, 2000, and 2001. Once M's historic absorption ratio is determined for the updated test period, it would be used for a new qualifying period beginning in 2002.
(c)
Modified simplified production method
—(1)
Introduction.
This paragraph (c) provides a simplified method for determining the additional section 263A costs properly allocable to ending inventories of property produced and other eligible property on hand at the end of the taxable year.
(2)
Eligible property
—(i)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the modified simplified production method, if elected for any trade or business of a
producer, must be used for all production and resale activities associated with any of the categories of property to which section 263A applies as described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(ii)
Election to exclude-self-constructed assets.
A taxpayer using the modified simplified production method may elect to exclude self-constructed assets from application of the modified simplified production method by following the same rules applicable to a taxpayer using the simplified production method provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Modified simplified production method without historic absorption ratio election
—(i)
General allocation formula
—(A)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section, the additional section 263A costs allocable to eligible property remaining on hand at the close of the taxable year under the modified simplified production method are computed as follows:
ER20NO18.001
(B)
Effect of allocation.
The pre-production and production absorption ratios generally are multiplied by the pre-production and production section 471 costs, respectively, remaining in ending inventory or otherwise on hand at the end of each taxable year in which the modified simplified production method is applied. The sum of the resulting products is the additional section 263A costs that are added to the taxpayer's ending section 471 costs to determine the section 263A costs that are capitalized. See, however, paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section for special rules applicable to LIFO taxpayers. Except as otherwise provided in this section or in § 1.263A-1 or § 1.263A-3, additional section 263A costs that are allocated to inventories on hand at the close of the taxable year under the modified simplified production method of this paragraph (c) are treated as inventory costs for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code.
(ii)
Definitions
—(A)
Direct material costs.
For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, direct material costs has the same meaning as described in § 1.263A-1(e)(2)(i)(A). For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, direct material costs include property produced for the taxpayer under a contract with another party that are direct material costs for the taxpayer to be used in an additional production process of the taxpayer.
(B)
Pre-production absorption ratio.
Under the modified simplified production method, the pre-production absorption ratio is determined as follows:
ER20NO18.002
(
1
)
Pre-production additional section 263A costs.
Pre-production additional section 263A costs are defined as the additional section 263A costs described in § 1.263A-1(d)(3) that are pre-production costs, as described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year, including capitalizable mixed service costs allocable to pre-production additional section 263A costs, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year:
(
i
) Plus additional section 263A costs properly allocable to property acquired
for resale that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year; and
(
ii
) Plus additional section 263A costs properly allocable to property produced for the taxpayer under a contract with another party that is treated as property produced by the taxpayer, as described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year.
(
2
)
Pre-production section 471 costs.
Pre-production section 471 costs are defined as the section 471 costs described in § 1.263A-1(d)(2) that are direct material costs that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year plus the section 471 costs for property acquired for resale (
see
§ 1.263A-1(e)(2)(ii)) that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year, including property produced for the taxpayer under a contract with another party that is acquired for resale.
(C)
Pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end.
Pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end means the pre-production section 471 costs, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section, that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year which remain in its ending inventory or are otherwise on hand at year end, excluding the section 471 costs that are direct material costs that have entered or completed production at year end (for example, direct material costs in ending work-in-process inventory and ending finished goods inventory). For LIFO inventories of a taxpayer, see paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.
(D)
Production absorption ratio.
Under the modified simplified production method, the production absorption ratio is determined as follows:
ER20NO18.003
(
1
)
Production additional section 263A costs.
Production additional section 263A costs are defined as the additional section 263A costs described in § 1.263A-1(d)(3) that are not pre-production additional section 263A costs, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section, that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year, including capitalizable mixed service costs not allocable to pre-production additional section 263A costs, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year. For example, production additional section 263A costs include post-production costs, other than post-production costs included in section 471 costs, as described in paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section.
(
2
)
Residual pre-production additional section 263A costs.
Residual pre-production additional section 263A costs are defined as the pre-production additional section 263A costs, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section, that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year less the product of the pre-production absorption ratio, as determined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, and the pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(C) of this section.
(
3
)
Production section 471 costs.
Production section 471 costs are defined as the section 471 costs described in § 1.263A-1(d)(2) that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year less pre-production section 471 costs, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section, that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year.
(
4
)
Direct materials adjustment.
The direct materials adjustment is defined as the section 471 costs that are direct material costs, including property produced for a taxpayer under a contract with another party that are direct material costs for the taxpayer to be used in an additional production process of the taxpayer, that had not entered production at the beginning of the current taxable year:
(
i
) Plus the section 471 costs that are direct material costs incurred during the current taxable year (that is, direct material purchases); and
(
ii
) Less the section 471 costs that are direct material costs that have not entered production at the end of the current taxable year.
(E)
Production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end.
Production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end means the section 471 costs, as defined in § 1.263A-1(d)(2), that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year which remain in its ending inventory or are otherwise on hand at year end, less the pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(C) of this section. For LIFO inventories of a taxpayer, see paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.
(F)
Costs allocated to property sold.
The terms defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section do not include costs described in § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(ii) or cost reductions described in § 1.471-3(e) that a taxpayer properly allocates entirely to property that has been sold.
(iii)
Allocable mixed service costs
—(A)
In general.
If a taxpayer using the modified simplified production method determines its capitalizable mixed service costs using a method described in § 1.263A-1(g)(4), the taxpayer must use a reasonable method to allocate the costs (for example, department or activity costs) between production and pre-production additional section 263A costs. If the taxpayer's § 1.263A-1(g)(4) method allocates costs to a department or activity that is exclusively identified as production or pre-production, those costs must be allocated to production or pre-production additional section 263A costs, respectively.
(B)
Taxpayer using the simplified service cost method.
If a taxpayer using the modified simplified production method determines its capitalizable mixed service costs using the simplified service cost method described in § 1.263A-1(h), the amount of capitalizable mixed service costs, as computed using the general allocation formula in § 1.263A-1(h)(3)(i), allocated to and included in pre-production additional section 263A costs in the absorption ratio described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section is determined based on either of the following: The proportion of direct material costs to total section 471 costs that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year or the proportion of pre-production labor costs to total labor costs that a taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year. The taxpayer must include the capitalizable mixed service costs that are not allocated to pre-production additional section 263A costs in production additional section 263A costs in the absorption ratio described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D) of this section. A taxpayer that allocates capitalizable mixed service costs based on labor under this paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) must exclude mixed service labor costs from both pre-production labor costs and total labor costs.
(C)
De minimis rule.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section, if 90 percent or more of a taxpayer's capitalizable mixed service costs determined under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section are allocated to pre-production additional section 263A costs or production additional section 263A costs, the taxpayer may elect to allocate 100 percent of its capitalizable mixed service costs to that amount. For example, if 90 percent of capitalizable mixed service costs are allocated to production additional section 263A costs based on the labor costs that are pre-production costs in total labor costs incurred in the taxpayer's trade or business during the taxable year, then 100 percent of capitalizable mixed service costs may be allocated to production additional section 263A costs. An election to allocate capitalizable mixed service costs under this paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C) is the adoption of, or a change in, a method of accounting under section 446 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(iv)
LIFO taxpayers electing the modified simplified production method
—(A)
In general.
Under the modified simplified production method, a taxpayer using a LIFO method must calculate a particular year's index (for example, under § 1.472-8(e)) without regard to its additional section 263A costs. Similarly, a taxpayer that adjusts current-year costs by applicable indexes to determine whether there has been an inventory increment or decrement in the current year for a particular LIFO pool must disregard the additional section
263A costs in making that determination.
(B)
LIFO increment
—(
1
)
In general.
If the taxpayer determines there has been an inventory increment, the taxpayer must state the amount of the increment in terms of section 471 costs in current-year dollars. The taxpayer then multiplies this amount by the combined absorption ratio, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
2
) of this section. The resulting product is the additional section 263A costs that must be added to the taxpayer's increment in terms of section 471 costs in current-year dollars for the taxable year.
(
2
)
Combined absorption ratio defined.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section, the combined absorption ratio is the additional section 263A costs allocable to eligible property remaining on hand at the close of the taxable year, as described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section, determined on a non-LIFO basis, divided by the pre-production and production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end, determined on a non-LIFO basis.
(C)
LIFO decrement.
If the taxpayer determines there has been an inventory decrement, the taxpayer must state the amount of the decrement in dollars applicable to the particular year for which the LIFO layer has been invaded. The additional section 263A costs incurred in prior years that are applicable to the decrement are charged to cost of goods sold. The additional section 263A costs that are applicable to the decrement are determined by multiplying the additional section 263A costs allocated to the layer of the pool in which the decrement occurred by the ratio of the decrement, excluding additional section 263A costs, to the section 471 costs in the layer of that pool.
(v)
De minimis rule for producers with total indirect costs of $200,000 or less.
Paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, which provides that the additional section 263A costs allocable to eligible property remaining on hand at the close of the taxable year are deemed to be zero for producers with total indirect costs of $200,000 or less, applies to the modified simplified production method.
(vi)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (c) are illustrated by the following examples:
(A)
Example 1—FIFO inventory method.
(
1
) Taxpayer P uses the FIFO method of accounting for inventories valued at cost. P's beginning inventory for 2018 (all of which is sold during 2018) is $2,500,000, consisting of $500,000 of pre-production section 471 costs (including $400,000 of direct material costs and $100,000 of property acquired for resale), $1,500,000 of production section 471 costs, and $500,000 of additional section 263A costs. During 2018, P incurs $2,500,000 of pre-production section 471 costs (including $1,900,000 of direct material costs and $600,000 of property acquired for resale), $7,500,000 of production section 471 costs, $200,000 of pre-production additional section 263A costs, and $800,000 of production additional section 263A costs. P's additional section 263A costs include capitalizable mixed service costs under the simplified service cost method. P's pre-production and production section 471 costs remaining in ending inventory at the end of 2018 are $1,000,000 (including $800,000 of direct material costs and $200,000 of property acquired for resale) and $2,000,000, respectively. P computes its pre-production absorption ratio for 2018 under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, as follows:
ER20NO18.004
(
2
) Under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D)(
2
) of this section, P's residual pre-production additional section 263A costs for 2018 are $120,000 ($200,000 of pre-production additional section 263A costs less $80,000 (the product of the 8% pre-production absorption ratio and the $1,000,000 of pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end)).
(
3
) Under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D)(
4
) of this section, P's direct materials adjustment for 2018 is $1,500,000 ($400,000 of direct material costs in beginning raw materials inventory, plus $1,900,000 of direct material costs incurred to acquire raw materials during the taxable year, less $800,000 direct material costs in ending raw materials inventory).
(
4
) P computes its production absorption ratio for 2018 under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D) of this section, as follows:
ER20NO18.005
(
5
) Under the modified simplified production method, P determines the additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory under paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section by multiplying the pre-production absorption ratio by the pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end and the production absorption ratio by the production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end, as follows:
Additional section 263A costs = (8% × $1,000,000) + (10.22% × $2,000,000) = $284,400
(
6
) P adds this $284,400 to the $3,000,000 of section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end to calculate its total ending inventory of $3,284,400. The balance of P's additional section 263A costs incurred during 2018, $715,600 ($1,000,000 less $284,400), is taken into account in 2018 as part of P's cost of goods sold.
(
7
) P's computation is summarized in the following table:
Reference
Amount
Beginning Inventory:
Direct material costs
a
$ 400,000
Property acquired for resale
b
100,000
Pre-production section 471 costs
c = a + b
500,000
Production section 471 costs
d
1,500,000
Additional section 263A costs
e
500,000
Total
f = c d + e
2,500,000
Incurred During 2018:
Direct material costs
g
1,900,000
Property acquired for resale
h
600,000
Pre-production section 471 costs
i = g + h
2,500,000
Production section 471 costs
j
7,500,000
Pre-production additional section 263A costs
k
200,000
Production additional section 263A costs
l
800,000
Total
m = i + j + k + l
11,000,000
Ending Inventory:
Direct material costs
n
800,000
Property acquired for resale
o
200,000
Pre-production section 471 costs
p = n + o
1,000,000
Production section 471 costs
q
2,000,000
Section 471 costs
r = p + q
3,000,000
Additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory
s = v + z
284,400
Total
t = r + s
3,284,400
Modified Simplified Production Method:
Pre-production additional section 263A costs
k
200,000
Pre-production section 471 costs
i
2,500,000
Pre-production absorption ratio
u = k / i
8.00%
Pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end
p
1,000,000
Pre-production additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory
v = u * p
80,000
Production additional section 263A costs
l
800,000
Residual pre-production additional section 263A costs
w = k−(u * p)
120,000
Production section 471 costs
j
7,500,000
Direct materials adjustment
x = a + g−n
1,500,000
Production absorption ratio
y = (l + w) / (j + x)
10.22%
Production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end
q
2,000,000
Production additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory
z = y * q
204,400
Summary:
Pre-production additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory
v
80,000
Production additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory
z
204,400
Additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory
s
284,400
Section 471 costs
r
3,000,000
Total Ending Inventory
t
3,284,400
(B)
Example 2—FIFO inventory method with alternative method to determine amounts of section 471 costs.
(
1
) The facts are the same as in
Example 1
of paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A) of this section, except that P uses the alternative method to determine amounts of section 471 costs by using its financial statement under § 1.263A-1(d)(2)(iii) rather than tax amounts under § 1.263A-1(d)(2)(i). In 2018, P's production section 471 costs exclude $40,000 of tax depreciation in excess of financial statement depreciation and include $50,000 of financial statement direct labor in excess of tax direct labor. These are P's only differences in its book and tax amounts.
(
2
) Under § 1.263A-1(d)(2)(iii)(B), the positive $40,000 depreciation adjustment and the negative $50,000 direct labor adjustment must be included in additional section 263A costs. Accordingly, P's production additional section 263A costs are $790,000 ($800,000 plus $40,000 less $50,000).
(
3
) P computes its production absorption ratio for 2018 under paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D) of this section, as follows:
ER20NO18.006
(
4
) Under the modified simplified production method, P determines the additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory under paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section by multiplying the pre-production absorption ratio by the pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end and the production absorption ratio by the production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end, as follows:
Additional section 263A costs = (8.00% × $1,000,000) + (10.11% × $2,000,000) = $282,200
(
5
) P adds this $282,200 to the $3,000,000 of section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end to calculate its total ending inventory of $3,282,200. The balance of P's additional section 263A costs incurred during 2018, $717,800 ($1,000,000 less $282,200), is taken into account in 2018 as part of P's cost of goods sold.
(C)
Example 3—LIFO inventory method.
(
1
) The facts are the same as in
Example 1
of paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(A) of this section, except that P uses a dollar-value LIFO inventory method rather
than the FIFO method. P's 2018 LIFO increment is $1,500,000.
(
2
) Under paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
1
) of this section, to determine the additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory, P multiplies the combined absorption ratio by the $1,500,000 of LIFO increment. Under paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
2
) of this section, the combined absorption ratio is 9.48% ($284,400 additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory, determined on a non-LIFO basis, divided by $3,000,000 of section 471 costs on hand at year end, determined on a non-LIFO basis). Thus, P's additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory are $142,200 ($1,500,000 multiplied by 9.48%). This $142,200 is added to the $1,500,000 to determine a total 2018 LIFO increment of $1,642,200. The balance of P's additional section 263A costs incurred during 2018, $857,800 ($1,000,000 less $142,200), is taken into account in 2018 as part of P's cost of goods sold.
(
3
) In 2019, P sells one-half of the inventory in its 2018 increment. P must include in its cost of goods sold for 2019 the amount of additional section 263A costs relating to this inventory, $71,100 (one-half of the $142,200 additional section 263A costs capitalized in 2018 ending inventory).
(D)
Example 4—Direct materials-based allocation of mixed service costs.
(
1
) Taxpayer R computes its capitalizable mixed service costs using the simplified service cost method described in § 1.263A-1(h). During 2018, R incurs $200,000 of capitalizable mixed service costs, computed using the general allocation formula in § 1.263A-1(h). During 2018, R also incurs $8,000,000 of total section 471 costs, including $2,000,000 of direct material costs.
(
2
) Under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, R determines its capitalizable mixed service costs allocable to pre-production additional section 263A costs based on the proportion of direct material costs in total section 471 costs. R's direct material costs are 25% of total section 471 costs ($2,000,000 of direct material costs incurred during the year divided by $8,000,000 of total section 471 costs incurred during the year). Thus, R allocates $50,000 (25% × $200,000) of mixed service costs to pre-production additional section 263A costs. R includes the remaining $150,000 ($200,000 less $50,000) of capitalizable mixed service costs as production additional section 263A costs.
(E)
Example 5—Labor-based allocation of mixed service costs.
(
1
) Taxpayer S computes its capitalizable mixed service costs using the simplified service cost method described in § 1.263A-1(h). During 2018, S incurs $200,000 of capitalizable mixed service costs, computed using the general allocation formula in § 1.263A-1(h). During 2018, S also incurs $10,000,000 of total labor costs (excluding any labor costs included in mixed service costs), including $1,000,000 of labor costs that are pre-production costs as described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section (excluding any labor costs included in mixed service costs).
(
2
) Under paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, S determines its capitalizable mixed service costs allocable to pre-production additional section 263A costs based on the proportion of labor costs that are pre-production costs in labor costs. S's pre-production labor costs are 10% of labor costs ($1,000,000 of labor costs incurred during the year that are pre-production costs (excluding any labor costs included in mixed service costs), divided by $10,000,000 of total labor costs incurred during the year (excluding any labor costs included in mixed service costs). Thus, S allocates $20,000 (10% × $200,000) of mixed service costs to pre-production additional section 263A costs. S includes the remaining $180,000 ($200,000 less $20,000) of capitalizable mixed service costs as production additional section 263A costs.
(F)
Example 6—De minimis rule for allocation of mixed service costs.
The facts are the same as in
Example 5
in paragraph (c)(3)(vi)(E) of this section, except that S uses the de minimis rule for mixed service costs in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(C) of this section. Because 90% or more of S's capitalizable mixed service costs are allocated to production additional section 263A costs, under the de minimis rule, S allocates all $200,000 of capitalizable mixed service costs to production additional section 263A costs. None of the capitalizable mixed service costs are
allocated to pre-production additional section 263A costs.
(4)
Modified simplified production method with historic absorption ratio election
—(i)
In general.
This paragraph (c)(4) generally permits taxpayers using the modified simplified production method to elect a historic absorption ratio in determining additional section 263A costs allocable to eligible property remaining on hand at the close of their taxable years. A taxpayer may only make a historic absorption ratio election under this paragraph (c)(4) if it has used the modified simplified production method for three or more consecutive taxable years immediately prior to the year of election and has capitalized additional section 263A costs using an actual pre-production absorption ratio, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, and an actual production absorption ratio, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D) of this section, or an actual combined absorption ratio, as defined in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(B)(
2
) of this section, for its three most recent consecutive taxable years. This method is not available to a taxpayer that is deemed to have zero additional section 263A costs under paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section. The historic absorption ratio is used in lieu of the actual absorption ratios computed under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section or the actual combined absorption ratio computed under paragraph (c)(3)(iv) and is based on costs capitalized by a taxpayer during its test period. If elected, the historic absorption ratio must be used for each taxable year within the qualifying period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c)(4), paragraph (b)(4) of this section applies to the historic absorption ratio election under the modified simplified production method.
(ii)
Operating rules and definitions
—(A)
Pre-production historic absorption ratio
. The pre-production historic absorption ratio is computed as follows:
ER20NO18.007
(
1
) Pre-production additional section 263A costs incurred during the test period are defined as the pre-production additional section 263A costs described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section that the taxpayer incurs during the test period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(
2
) Pre-production section 471 costs incurred during the test period are defined as the pre-production section 471 costs described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section that the taxpayer incurs during the test period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(B)
Production historic absorption ratio.
The production historic absorption ratio is computed as follows:
ER20NO18.008
(
1
) Production additional section 263A costs incurred during the test period are defined as the production additional section 263A costs described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D)(
1
) of this section that the taxpayer incurs during the test period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(
2
) Residual pre-production additional section 263A costs incurred during the test period are defined as the residual pre-production additional section 263A costs described in paragraph
(c)(3)(ii)(D)(
2
) of this section that the taxpayer incurs during the test period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(
3
) Production section 471 costs incurred during the test period are defined as the production section 471 costs described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D)(
3
) of this section that the taxpayer incurs during the test period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(
4
) Direct materials adjustments made during the test period are defined as the direct materials adjustments described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D)(
4
) of this section that the taxpayer incurs during the test period described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(iii)
LIFO taxpayers making the historic absorption ratio election
—(A)
In general.
Instead of the pre-production and production historic absorption ratios defined in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, a LIFO taxpayer making the historic absorption ratio election under the modified simplified production method calculates a combined historic absorption ratio based on costs the taxpayer capitalizes during its test period.
(B)
Combined historic absorption ratio.
The combined historic absorption ratio is computed as follows:
ER20NO18.009
(
1
)
Total allocable additional section 263A costs incurred during the test period.
Total allocable additional section 263A costs incurred during the test period are the sum of the total additional section 263A costs allocable to eligible property on hand at year end as described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section, determined on a non-LIFO basis, for all taxable years in the test period.
(
2
)
Total section 471 costs remaining on hand at each year end of the test period.
Total section 471 costs remaining on hand at each year end of the test period are the sum of the total pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end as described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(C) of this section and the total production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end as described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(E) of this section, determined on a non-LIFO basis, for all taxable years in the test period.
(iv)
Extension of qualifying period.
In the first taxable year following the close of each qualifying period (for example, the sixth taxable year following the test period), a taxpayer must compute the actual absorption ratios under paragraph (c)(3) of this section (pre-production and production absorption ratios or, for LIFO taxpayers, the combined absorption ratio). If the actual combined absorption ratio or both the actual pre-production and production absorption ratios, as applicable, computed for this taxable year (the recomputation year) is within one-half of one percentage point, plus or minus, of the corresponding historic absorption ratio or ratios used in determining capitalizable costs for the qualifying period (the previous five taxable years), the qualifying period is extended to include the recomputation year and the following five taxable years, and the taxpayer must continue to use the historic absorption ratio or ratios throughout the extended qualifying period. If, however, the actual combined historic absorption ratio or either the actual pre-production absorption ratio or production absorption ratio, as applicable, is not within one-half of one percentage point, plus or minus, of the corresponding historic absorption ratio, the taxpayer must use the actual combined absorption ratio or ratios beginning with the recomputation year and throughout the updated test period. The taxpayer must resume using the historic absorption ratio or ratios based on the updated test period in the third taxable year following the recomputation year.
(v)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (c)(4) are illustrated by the following examples:
(A)
Example 1—HAR and FIFO inventory method.
(
1
) Taxpayer S uses the FIFO method of accounting for inventories valued at cost and for 2021 elects to use the historic absorption ratio with the modified simplified production method. S identifies the following costs incurred during the test period:
2018
2019
2020
Pre-production additional section 263A costs
$100
$200
$300
Production additional section 263A costs
200
350
450
Pre-production section 471 costs
2,000
2,500
3,000
Production section 471 costs
2,500
3,500
4,000
Residual pre-production additional section 263A costs
60
136
220
Direct materials adjustments
2,700
3,200
3,700
(
2
) Under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, S computes the pre-production historic absorption ratio as follows:
ER20NO18.010
(
3
) Under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, S computes the production historic absorption ratio as follows:
ER20NO18.011
(
4
) In 2021, S incurs $10,000 of section 471 costs of which $1,000 pre-production section 471 costs and $2,000 production 471 costs remain in ending inventory. Under the modified simplified production method using a historic absorption ratio, S determines the pre-production additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory by multiplying its pre-production historic absorption ratio (8.00%) by the pre-production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end ($1,000). Thus, S allocates $80 of pre-production additional section 263A costs to its ending inventory (8.00% × $1,000). S determines the production additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory by multiplying its production historic absorption ratio (7.22%) by the production section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end ($2,000). Thus, S allocates $144 of production additional section 263A costs to its ending inventory (7.22% × $2,000).
(
5
) Under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, S's total additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory in 2021 are $224, which is the sum of the allocable pre-production additional section 263A costs ($80) and the allocable production additional section
263A costs ($144). S's ending inventory in 2021 is $3,224, which is the sum of S's additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory and S's section 471 costs remaining in ending inventory ($224 + $3,000). The balance of S's additional section 263A costs incurred during 2021 is taken into account in 2021 as part of S's cost of goods sold.
(B)
Example 2—HAR and LIFO inventory method.
(
1
)(
i
) The facts are the same as in
Example 1
in paragraph (c)(4)(v)(A) of this section, except that S uses a dollar-value LIFO inventory method rather than the FIFO method. S calculates additional section 263A costs incurred during the taxable year and allocable to ending inventory under paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section and identifies the following costs incurred during the test period:
2018
2019
2020
Additional section 263A costs incurred during the taxable year allocable to ending inventory
$90
$137
$167
Section 471 costs incurred during the taxable year that remain in ending inventory
1,000
1,400
2,100
(
ii
) In 2021, the LIFO value of S's increment is $1,500.
(
2
) Under paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, S computes a combined historic absorption ratio as follows:
ER20NO18.012
(
3
) S's additional section 263A costs allocable to its 2021 LIFO increment are $131 ($1,500 beginning LIFO increment × 8.76% combined historic absorption ratio). S adds the $131 to the $1,500 LIFO increment to determine a total 2021 LIFO increment of $1,631.
(d)
Additional simplified methods for producers.
The Commissioner may prescribe additional elective simplified methods by revenue ruling or revenue procedure.
(e)
Cross reference.
See § 1.6001-1(a) regarding the duty of taxpayers to keep such records as are sufficient to establish the amount of gross income, deductions, etc.
(f)
Change in method of accounting
—(1)
In general.
A change in a taxpayer's treatment of additional section 263A costs to comply with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section is a change in method of accounting to which the provisions of sections 446 and 481 and the regulations under those sections apply. See § 1.263A-7. For a taxpayer's first taxable year ending on or after August 2, 2005, the taxpayer is granted the consent of the Commissioner to change its method of accounting to comply with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section, provided the taxpayer follows the administrative procedures, as modified by paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section, issued under § 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) for obtaining the Commissioner's automatic consent to a change in accounting method (for further guidance, for example, see Rev. Proc. 2002-9 (2002-1 CB 327), as modified and clarified by Announcement 2002-17 (2002-1 CB 561), modified and amplified by Rev. Proc. 2002-19 (2002-1 CB 696), and amplified, clarified, and modified by Rev. Proc. 2002-54 (2002-2 CB 432), and § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter). For purposes of Form 3115, “Application for Change in Accounting Method,” the designated number for the automatic accounting method change authorized by this paragraph (e) is “95.” If Form
3115 is revised or renumbered, any reference in this section to that form is treated as a reference to the revised or renumbered form. Alternatively, notwithstanding the provisions of any administrative procedures that preclude a taxpayer from requesting the advance consent of the Commissioner to change a method of accounting that is required to be made pursuant to a published automatic change procedure, for its first taxable year ending on or after August 2, 2005, a taxpayer may request the advance consent of the Commissioner to change its method of accounting to comply with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section, provided the taxpayer follows the administrative procedures, as modified by paragraphs (e)(2) through (5) of this section, for obtaining the advance consent of the Commissioner (for further guidance, for example, see Rev. Proc. 97-27 (1997-1 CB 680), as modified and amplified by Rev. Proc. 2002-19 (2002-1 CB 696), as amplified and clarified by Rev. Proc. 2002-54 (2002-2 CB 432), and § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter). For the taxpayer's second and subsequent taxable years ending on or after August 2, 2005, requests to secure the consent of the Commissioner must be made under the administrative procedures, as modified by paragraphs (e)(3) and (4) of this section, for obtaining the Commissioner's advance consent to a change in accounting method.
(2)
Scope limitations.
Any limitations on obtaining the automatic consent or advance consent of the Commissioner do not apply to a taxpayer seeking to change its method of accounting to comply with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section for its first taxable year ending on or after August 2, 2005.
(3)
Audit protection.
A taxpayer that changes its method of accounting in accordance with this paragraph (e) to comply with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section does not receive audit protection if its method of accounting for additional section 263A costs is an issue under consideration at the time the application is filed with the national office.
(4)
Section 481(a) adjustment.
A change in method of accounting to conform to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section requires a section 481(a) adjustment. The section 481(a) adjustment period is two taxable years for a net positive adjustment for an accounting method change that is made to conform to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
(5)
Time for requesting change.
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 1.446-1(e)(3)(i) and any contrary administrative procedure, a taxpayer may submit a request for advance consent to change its method of accounting to comply with paragraph (b)(2)(i)D) of this section for its first taxable year ending on or after August 2, 2005, on or before the date that is 30 days after the end of the taxable year for which the change is requested.
(g)
Applicability dates.
(1) Paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(D), (e), and (f) of this section apply for taxable years ending on or after August 2, 2005.
(2) Paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(C) and (b)(4)(ii)(A)(
4
) of this section apply for taxable years ending on or after January 13, 2014.
(3) Paragraph (c) of this section applies for taxable years beginning on or after November 20, 2018. For any taxable year that both begins before November 20, 2018 and ends after November 20, 2018, the IRS will not challenge return positions consistent with all of paragraphs (c) of this section.
(4) The rules set forth in the last sentence of the introductory text of paragraph (a) of this section and in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(C) of this section apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 5, 2021. However, for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 5, 2021, a taxpayer may apply the paragraphs described in the first sentence of this paragraph (g)(4), provided that the taxpayer follows all the applicable rules contained in the regulations under section 263A for such taxable year and all subsequent taxable years.
[T.D. 8482, 58 FR 42219, Aug. 9, 1993, as amended by 59 FR 3318, 3319, Jan. 21, 1994; T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67197, Dec. 29, 1994; T.D. 9217, 70 FR 44469, Aug. 3, 2005; T.D. 9318, 72 FR 14677, Mar. 29, 2007; T.D. 9652, 79 FR 2097, Jan. 13, 2014; T.D. 9843, 83 FR 58491, Nov. 20, 2018; T.D. 9942, 86 FR 266, Jan. 5, 2021]
§ 1.263A-3
Rules relating to property acquired for resale.
(a)
Capitalization rules for property acquired for resale
—(1)
In general.
Section 263A applies to real property and personal property described in section 1221(1) acquired for resale by a retailer, wholesaler, or other taxpayer (reseller). However, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, a small business taxpayer, as defined in § 1.263A-1(j), is not required to apply section 263A in that taxable year.For this purpose, personal property includes both tangible and intangible property.Property acquired for resale includes stock in trade of the taxpayer or other property which is includible in the taxpayer's inventory if on hand at the close of the taxable year, and property held by the taxpayer primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business. See, however, § 1.263A-1(b)(11) for an exception for certain de minimis property provided to customers incident to the provision of services.
(2)
Resellers with production activities
—(i)
In general.
Generally, a taxpayer must capitalize all direct costs and certain indirect costs associated with real property and tangible personal property it produces. See § 1.263A-2(a). Thus, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (3) of this section, a reseller, including a small reseller, that also produces property must capitalize the additional section 263A costs associated with any property it produces.
(ii)
Exemption for certain small business taxpayers.
For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, see § 1.263A-1(j) for an exception in the case of a small business taxpayer that meets the gross receipts test of section 448(c) and § 1.448-2(c).
(iii)
De minimis production activities.
See paragraph (a)(5) of this section for rules relating to an exception for resellers with
de minimis
production activities.
(3)
Resellers with property produced under contract.
Generally, property produced for a taxpayer under a contract (within the meaning of § 1.263A-2(a)(1)(ii)(B)(
2
)) is treated as property produced by the taxpayer. See § 1.263A-2(a)(1)(ii)(B). However, a small business taxpayer is not required to capitalize additional section 263A costs to personal property produced for it under contract with an unrelated person if the contract is entered into incident to the resale activities of the small business taxpayer and the property is sold to its customers. For purposes of this paragraph, persons are related if they are described in section 267(b) or 707(b).
(4)
Use of the simplified resale method
— (i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii) and (iii) of this section, a taxpayer may elect the simplified production method, as described in § 1.263A-2(b), or the modified simplified production method, as described in § 1.263A-2(c), but may not elect the simplified resale method, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, if the taxpayer is engaged in both production and resale activities with respect to the items of eligible property listed in § 1.263A-2(b)(2).
(ii)
Resellers with de minimis production activities.
A reseller otherwise permitted to use the simplified resale method in paragraph (d) of this section may use the simplified resale method if its production activities with respect to the items of eligible property listed in § 1.263A-2(b)(2) are de minimis (within the meaning of paragraph (a)(5) of this section) and incident to its resale of personal property described in section 1221(1).
(iii)
Resellers with property produced under a contract.
A reseller otherwise permitted to use the simplified resale method in paragraph (d) of this section may use the simplified resale method even though it has personal property produced for it (e.g., private label goods) under a contract with an unrelated person if the contract is entered into incident to its resale activities and the property is sold to its customers. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(4)(iii), persons are related if they are described in section 267(b) or 707(b).
(iv)
Application of simplified resale method.
A taxpayer that uses the simplified resale method and has de minimis production activities incident to its resale activities or property produced under contract must capitalize all costs allocable to eligible property produced using the simplified resale method.
(5)
De minimis production activities
—(i)
In general.
In determining whether a taxpayer's production activities are
de minimis,
all facts and circumstances must be considered. For example, the taxpayer must consider the volume of the production activities in its trade or business. Production activities are presumed
de minimis
if—
(A) The gross receipts from the sale of the property produced by the reseller are less than 10 percent of the total gross receipts of the trade or business; and
(B) The labor costs allocable to the trade or business's production activities are less than 10 percent of the reseller's total labor costs allocable to its trade or business.
(ii)
Definition of gross receipts to determine de minimis production activities.
Gross receipts has the same definition as for purposes of the gross receipts test under § 1.448-2(c), except that gross receipts are measured at the trade-or-business level rather than at the single-employer level.
(iii)
Example: Reseller with de minimis production activities.
Taxpayer N is in the retail grocery business. In 2019, N's average annual gross receipts for the three previous taxable years are greater than the gross receipts test of section 448(c). Thus, N is not exempt from the requirement to capitalize costs under section 263A. N's grocery stores typically contain bakeries where customers may purchase baked goods produced by N. N produces no other goods in its retail grocery business. N's gross receipts from its bakeries are 5 percent of the entire grocery business. N's labor costs from its bakeries are 3 percent of its total labor costs allocable to the entire grocery business. Because both ratios are less than 10 percent, N's production activities are
de minimis.
Further, because N's production activities are incident to its resale activities, N may use the simplified resale method, as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Purchasing, handling, and storage costs
—(1)
In general.
Generally, § 1.263A-1(e) describes the types of costs that must be capitalized by taxpayers. Resellers must capitalize the acquisition cost of property acquired for resale, as well as indirect costs described in § 1.263A-1(e)(3), which are properly allocable to property acquired for resale. The indirect costs most often incurred by resellers are purchasing, handling, and storage costs. This paragraph (c) provides additional guidance regarding each of these categories of costs. As provided in § 1.263A-1(e), this paragraph (c) also applies to producers incurring purchasing, handling, and storage costs.
(2)
Costs attributable to purchasing, handling, and storage.
The costs attributable to purchasing, handling, and storage activities generally consist of direct and indirect labor costs (including the costs of pension plans and other fringe benefits); occupancy expenses including rent, depreciation, insurance, security, taxes, utilities and maintenance; materials and supplies; rent, maintenance, depreciation, and insurance of vehicles and equipment; tools; telephone; travel; and the general and administrative costs that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the taxpayer's activities.
(3)
Purchasing costs
—(i)
In general.
Purchasing costs are costs associated with operating a purchasing department or office within a trade or business, including personnel costs (e.g., of buyers, assistant buyers, and clerical workers), relating to—
(A) The selection of merchandise;
(B) The maintenance of stock assortment and volume;
(C) The placement of purchase orders;
(D) The establishment and maintenance of vendor contacts; and
(E) The comparison and testing of merchandise.
(ii)
Determination of whether personnel are engaged in purchasing activities.
The determination of whether a person is engaged in purchasing activities is based upon the activities performed by that person and not upon the person's title or job classification. Thus, for example, although an employee's job function may be described in such a way as to indicate activities outside the area of purchasing (e.g., a marketing representative), such activities must be analyzed on the basis of the activities performed by that employee. If a person performs both purchasing
and non-purchasing activities, the taxpayer must reasonably allocate the person's labor costs between these activities. For example, a reasonable allocation is one based on the amount of time the person spends on each activity.
(A)
1/3
-
2/3
rule for allocating labor costs.
A taxpayer may elect the
1/3
-
2/3
rule for allocating labor costs of persons performing both purchasing and non-purchasing activities. If elected, the taxpayer must allocate the labor costs of all such persons using the
1/3
-
2/3
rule. Under this rule—
(
1
) If less than one-third of a person's activities are related to purchasing, none of that person's labor costs are allocated to purchasing;
(
2
) If more than two-thirds of a person's activities are related to purchasing, all of that person's labor costs are allocated to purchasing; and
(
3
) In all other cases, the taxpayer must reasonably allocate labor costs between purchasing and non-purchasing activities.
(B)
Example.
The application of paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
Taxpayer O is a reseller that employs three persons, A, B, and C, who perform both purchasing and non- purchasing activities. These persons spend the following time performing purchasing activities: A-25 %; B-70 %; and C-50 %. Under the
1/3
-
2/3
rule, Taxpayer O treats none of A's labor costs as purchasing costs, all of B's labor costs as purchasing costs, and Taxpayer O allocates 50 % of C's labor costs as purchasing costs.
(4)
Handling costs
—(i)
In general.
Handling costs include costs attributable to processing, assembling, repackaging, transporting, and other similar activities with respect to property acquired for resale, provided the activities do not come within the meaning of the term produce as defined in § 1.263A-2(a)(1). Handling costs are generally required to be capitalized under section 263A. Under this paragraph (c)(4)(i), however, handling costs incurred at a retail sales facility (as defined in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(B) of this section) with respect to property sold to retail customers at the facility are not required to be capitalized. Thus, for example, handling costs incurred at a retail sales facility to unload, unpack, mark, and tag goods sold to retail customers at the facility are not required to be capitalized. In addition, handling costs incurred at a dual-function storage facility (as defined in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(G) of this section) with respect to property sold to customers from the facility are not required to be capitalized to the extent that the costs are incurred with respect to property sold in on-site sales. Handling costs attributable to property sold to customers from a dual-function storage facility in on-site sales are determined by applying the ratio in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section.
(ii)
Processing costs.
Processing costs are the costs a reseller incurs in making minor changes or alterations to the nature or form of a product acquired for resale. Minor changes to a product include, for example, monogramming a sweater, altering a pair of pants, and other similar activities.
(iii)
Assembling costs.
Generally, assembling costs are costs associated with incidental activities that are necessary in readying property for resale (e.g., attaching wheels and handlebars to a bicycle acquired for resale).
(iv)
Repackaging costs.
Repackaging costs are the costs a taxpayer incurs to package property for sale to its customers.
(v)
Transportation costs.
Generally, transportation costs are the costs a taxpayer incurs moving or shipping property acquired for resale. These costs include the cost of dispatching trucks; loading and unloading shipments; and sorting, tagging, and marking property. Transportation costs may consist of depreciation on trucks and equipment and the costs of fuel, insurance, labor, and similar costs. Generally, transportation costs required to be capitalized include costs incurred in transporting property—
(A) From the vendor to the taxpayer;
(B) From one of the taxpayer's storage facilities to another of its storage facilities;
(C) From the taxpayer's storage facility to its retail sales facility;
(D) From the taxpayer's retail sales facility to its storage facility; and
(E) From one of the taxpayer's retail sales facilities to another of its retail sales facilities.
(vi)
Costs not required to be capitalized as handling costs
—(A)
Distribution costs
—(
1
)
In general.
Distribution costs are not required to be capitalized. Distribution costs are any transportation costs incurred outside a storage facility in delivering goods to a customer. For this purpose, any costs incurred on a loading dock are treated as incurred outside a storage facility.
(
2
)
Costs incurred in transporting goods to a related person.
Distribution costs do not include costs incurred by a taxpayer in delivering goods to a related person. Thus, for example, when a taxpayer sells goods to a related person, the costs of transporting the goods are included in determining the basis of the goods that are sold, and hence in determining the resulting gain or loss from the sale, for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder. See, e.g., sections 267, 707, and 1502. For purposes of this provision, persons are related if they are described in section 267(b) or section 707(b).
(B)
Delivery of custom-ordered items.
Generally, costs incurred in transporting goods from a taxpayer's storage facility to its retail sales facility must be capitalized. However, costs incurred outside a storage facility in delivering custom-ordered items to a retail sales facility are not required to be capitalized. For this purpose, any costs incurred on a loading dock are treated as incurred outside a storage facility. Delivery of custom-ordered items occurs when a taxpayer can demonstrate that a delivery to the taxpayer's retail sales facility is made to fill an identifiable order of a particular customer (placed by the customer before the delivery of the goods occurs) for the particular goods in question. Factors that may demonstrate the existence of a specific, identifiable delivery include the following—
(
1
) The customer has paid for the item in advance of the delivery;
(
2
) The customer has submitted a written order for the item;
(
3
) The item is not normally available at the retail sales facility for on-site customer purchases; and
(
4
) The item will be returned to the storage facility (and not held for sale at the retail sales facility) if the customer cancels an order.
(C)
Pick and pack costs
—(
1
)
In general.
Generally, handling costs incurred inside a storage or warehousing facility must be capitalized. However, costs attributable to pick and pack activities inside a storage or warehousing facility are not required to be capitalized. Pick and pack activities are activities undertaken in preparation for imminent shipment to a particular customer after the customer has ordered the specific goods in question. Examples of pick and pack activities include:
(
i
) Moving specific goods from a storage location in preparation for shipment to the customer;
(
ii
) Packing or repacking those goods for shipment to the customer; and
(
iii
) Staging those goods for shipment to the customer.
(
2
)
Activities that are not pick and pack activities.
Pick and pack activities do not include:
(
i
) Unloading goods that are received for storage;
(
ii
) Checking the quantity and quality of goods received;
(
iii
) Comparing the quantity of goods received to the amounts ordered and preparing the receiving documents;
(
iv
) Moving the goods to their storage location, e.g., bins, racks, containers, etc.; and
(
v
) Storing the goods.
(
3
)
Costs not attributable to pick and pack activities.
Occupancy costs, such as rent, depreciation, insurance, security, taxes, utilities, and maintenance costs properly allocable to the storage or warehousing facility, are not costs attributable to pick and pack activities.
(5)
Storage costs
—(i)
In general.
Generally, storage costs are capitalized under section 263A to the extent they are attributable to the operation of an off-site storage or warehousing facility (an off-site storage facility). However, storage costs attributable to the operation of an on-site storage facility (as defined in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(A) of this section) are not required to be capitalized under section 263A. Storage costs attributable to a dual-function storage facility (as defined in paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(G) of this section) must be
capitalized to the extent that the facility's costs are allocable to off-site storage.
(ii)
Definitions
—(A)
On-site storage facility.
An on-site storage facility is defined as a storage or warehousing facility that is physically attached to, and an integral part of, a retail sales facility.
(B)
Retail sales facility.
(
1
) A retail sales facility is defined as a facility where a taxpayer sells merchandise exclusively to retail customers in on-site sales. For this purpose, a retail sales facility includes those portions of any specific retail site—
(
i
) Which are customarily associated with and are an integral part of the operations of that retail site;
(
ii
) Which are generally open each business day exclusively to retail customers;
(
iii
) On or in which retail customers normally and routinely shop to select specific items of merchandise; and
(
iv
) Which are adjacent to or in immediate proximity to other portions of the specific retail site.
(
2
) Thus, for example, two lots of an automobile dealership physically separated by an alley or an access road would generally be considered one retail sales facility, provided customers routinely shop on both of the lots to select the specific automobiles that they wish to acquire.
(C)
An integral part of a retail sales facility.
A storage facility is considered an integral part of a retail sales facility when the storage facility is an essential and indispensable part of the retail sales facility. For example, if the storage facility is used exclusively for filling orders or completing sales at the retail sales facility, the storage facility is an integral part of the retail sales facility.
(D)
On-site sales.
On-site sales are defined as sales made to retail customers physically present at a facility. For example, mail order and catalog sales are made to customers not physically present at the facility, and thus, are not on-site sales.
(E)
Retail customer
—(
1
)
In general.
A retail customer is defined as the final purchaser of the merchandise. A retail customer does not include a person who resells the merchandise to others, such as a contractor or manufacturer that incorporates the merchandise into another product for sale to customers.
(
2
)
Certain non-retail customers treated as retail customers.
For purposes of this section, a non-retail customer is treated as a retail customer with respect to a particular facility if the following requirements are satisfied—
(
i
) The non-retail customer purchases goods under the same terms and conditions as are available to retail customers (e.g., no special discounts);
(
ii
) The non-retail customer purchases goods in the same manner as a retail customer (e.g., the non-retail customer may not place orders in advance and must come to the facility to examine and select goods);
(
iii
) Retail customers shop at the facility on a routine basis (i.e., on most business days), and no special days or hours are reserved for non-retail customers; and
(
iv
) More than 50 percent of the gross sales of the facility are made to retail customers.
(F)
Off-site storage facility.
An off-site storage facility is defined as a storage facility that is not an on-site storage facility.
(G)
Dual-function storage facility.
A dual-function storage facility is defined as a storage facility that serves as both an off-site storage facility and an on-site storage facility. For example, a dual-function storage facility would include a regional warehouse that serves the taxpayer's separate retail sales outlets and also contains a sales outlet therein. A dual-function storage facility also includes any facility where sales are made to retail customers in on-site sales and to—
(
1
) Retail customers in sales that are not on-site sales; or
(
2
) Other customers.
(iii)
Treatment of storage costs incurred at a dual-function storage facility
—(A)
In general.
Storage costs associated with a dual-function storage facility must be allocated between the off-site storage function and the on-site storage function. To the extent that the dual-function storage facility's storage costs are allocable to the off-site storage function, they must be capitalized. To the extent that the dual-function storage facility's storage costs are allocable to
the on-site storage function, they are not required to be capitalized.
(B)
Dual-function storage facility allocation ratio
—(
1
)
In general.
Storage costs associated with a dual-function storage facility must be allocated between the off-site storage function and the on-site storage function using the ratio of—
(
i
) Gross on-site sales of the facility (i.e., gross sales of the facility made to retail customers visiting the premises in person and purchasing merchandise stored therein); to
(
ii
) Total gross sales of the facility. For this purpose, the total gross sales of the facility include the value of items shipped to other facilities of the taxpayer.
(
2
)
Illustration of ratio allocation.
For example, if a dual-function storage facility's on-site sales are 40 percent of the total gross sales of the facility, then 40 percent of the facility's storage costs are allocable to the on-site storage function and are not required to be capitalized under section 263A.
(
3
)
Appropriate adjustments for other uses of a dual-function storage facility.
Prior to computing the allocation ratio in paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, a taxpayer must apply the principles of paragraph (c)(5)(iv) of this section in determining the portion of the facility that is a dual-function storage facility (and the costs attributable to such portion).
(C)
De minimis 90-10 rule for dual-function storage facilities.
If 90 percent or more of the costs of a facility are attributable to the on-site storage function, the entire storage facility is deemed to be an on-site storage facility. In contrast, if 10 percent or less of the costs of a storage facility are attributable to the on-site storage function, the entire storage facility is deemed to be an off-site storage facility.
(iv)
Costs not attributable to an off-site storage facility.
To the extent that costs incurred at an off-site storage facility are not properly allocable to the taxpayer's storage function, the costs are not accounted for as off-site storage costs. For example, if a taxpayer has an office attached to its off-site storage facility where work unrelated to the storage function is performed, such as a sales office, costs associated with this office are not off-site storage costs. However, if a taxpayer uses a portion of an off-site storage facility in a manner related to the storage function, for example, to store equipment or supplies that are not offered for sale to customers, costs associated with this portion of the facility are off-site storage costs.
(v)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (c)(5) are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1. Catalog or mail order center.
Taxpayer P operates a mail order catalog business. As part of its business, P stores merchandise for shipment to customers who purchase the merchandise through orders placed by telephone or mail. P's storage facility is not an on-site storage facility because no on-site sales are made at the facility.

# Example 2. Pooled-stock facility.
Taxpayer Q maintains a pooled-stock facility, which functions as a back-up regional storage facility for Q's retail sales outlets in the nearby area. Q's pooled stock facility is an off-site storage facility because it is neither physically attached to nor an integral part of a retail sales facility.

# Example 3. Wholesale warehouse.
Taxpayer R operates a wholesale warehouse where wholesale sales are made to customers physically present at the facility. R's customers resell the goods they purchase from R to final retail customers. Because no retail sales are conducted at the facility, all storage costs attributable to R's wholesale warehouse must be capitalized.
(d)
Simplified resale method
—(1)
Introduction.
This paragraph (d) provides a simplified method for determining the additional section 263A costs properly allocable to property acquired for resale and other eligible property on hand at the end of the taxable year.
(2)
Eligible property.
Generally, the simplified resale method is only available to a trade or business exclusively engaged in resale activities. However, certain resellers with property produced as a result of de minimis production activities or property produced under contract may elect the simplified resale method, as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Eligible property for purposes of the simplified resale method, therefore, includes any real or personal property described in section 1221(1) that is acquired for resale and any eligible property (within the meaning of § 1.263A-
2(b)(2)) that is described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(3)
Simplified resale method without historic absorption ratio election
—(i)
General allocation formula
—(A)
In general.
Under the simplified resale method, the additional section 263A costs allocable to eligible property remaining on hand at the close of the taxable year are computed as follows:
EC10OC91.013
(B)
Effect of allocation.
The resulting product under the general allocation formula is the additional section 263A costs that are added to the taxpayer's ending section 471 costs to determine the section 263A costs that are capitalized.
(C)
Definitions
—(
1
)
Combined absorption ratio.
The combined absorption ratio is defined as the sum of the storage and handling costs absorption ratio as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section and the purchasing costs absorption ratio as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(E) of this section.
(
2
)
Section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end.
Section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end mean the section 471 costs, as defined in § 1.263A-1(d)(2), that the taxpayer incurs during its current taxable year, which remain in its ending inventory or are otherwise on hand at year end. For LIFO inventories of a taxpayer, the section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end means the increment, if any, for the current year stated in terms of section 471 costs. See paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section for special rules applicable to LIFO taxpayers. Except as otherwise provided in this section or in § 1.263A-1 or 1.263A-2, additional section 263A costs that are allocated to inventories on hand at the close of the taxable year under the simplified resale method of this paragraph (d) are treated as inventory costs for all purposes of the Internal Revenue Code.
(
3
)
Costs allocable to property sold.
Section 471 costs remaining on hand at year end, as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section, do not include costs that are specifically described in § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(ii) or cost reductions described in § 1.471-3(e) that a taxpayer properly allocates entirely to property that has been sold.
(D)
Storage and handling costs absorption ratio.
(
1
) Under the simplified resale method, the storage and handling costs absorption ratio is determined as follows:
EC10OC91.014
(
2
) Current year's storage and handling costs are defined as the total storage costs plus the total handling costs incurred during the taxable year that relate to the taxpayer's property acquired for resale and other eligible property. See paragraph (c) of this section, which discusses storage and handling costs. Storage and handling costs must include the amount of allocable mixed service costs as described in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(F) of this section. Beginning inventory in the denominator of the storage and handling costs absorption ratio refers to the section 471 costs of any property acquired for resale or other eligible property held by the taxpayer as of the beginning of the taxable year. Current year's purchases generally mean the taxpayer's section 471 costs incurred with respect to purchases of property acquired for resale during the current taxable year. In computing the denominator of the storage and handling costs absorption ratio, a taxpayer using a dollar-value LIFO method of accounting, must state beginning inventory amounts using the
LIFO carrying value of the inventory and not current-year dollars.
(
3
) Current year's storage and handling costs, beginning inventory, and current year's purchases, as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(D)(
2
) of this section, do not include costs that are specifically described in § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(ii) or cost reductions described in § 1.471-3(e) that a taxpayer properly allocates entirely to property that has been sold.
(E)
Purchasing costs absorption ratio.
(
1
) Under the simplified resale method, the purchasing costs absorption ratio is determined as follows:
EC10OC91.015
(
2
) Current year's purchasing costs are defined as the total purchasing costs incurred during the taxable year that relate to the taxpayer's property acquired for resale and eligible property. See paragraph (c)(3) of this section, which discusses purchasing costs. Purchasing costs must include the amount of allocable mixed service costs determined in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(F) of this section. Current year's purchases generally mean the taxpayer's section 471 costs incurred with respect to purchases of property acquired for resale during the current taxable year.
(
3
) Current year's purchasing costs and current year's purchases, as defined in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(E)(
2
) of this section, do not include costs that are specifically described in § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(ii) or cost reductions described in § 1.471-3(e) that a taxpayer properly allocates entirely to property that has been sold.
(F)
Allocable mixed service costs.
(
1
) If a taxpayer allocates its mixed service costs to purchasing costs, storage costs, and handling costs using a method described in § 1.263A-1(g)(4), the taxpayer is not required to determine its allocable mixed service costs under this paragraph (d)(3)(i)(F). However, if the taxpayer uses the simplified service cost method, the amount of mixed service costs allocated to and included in purchasing costs, storage costs, and handling costs in the absorption ratios in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) (D) and (E) of this section is determined as follows:
EC10OC91.016
(
2
) Labor costs allocable to activity are defined as the total labor costs allocable to each particular activity (i.e., purchasing, handling, and storage), excluding labor costs included in mixed service costs. Total labor costs are defined as the total labor costs (excluding labor costs included in mixed service costs) that are incurred in the taxpayer's trade or business during the taxable year. See § 1.263A-1(h)(6) for the definition of total mixed service costs.
(ii)
LIFO taxpayers electing simplified resale method
—(A)
In general.
Under the simplified resale method, a taxpayer using a LIFO method must calculate a particular year's index (e.g., under § 1.472-8(e)) without regard its additional section 263A costs. Similarly, a taxpayer that adjusts current-year costs by applicable indexes to determine whether there has been an inventory increment or decrement in the current year for a particular LIFO pool must disregard the additional section 263A costs in making that determination.
(B)
LIFO increment.
If the taxpayer determines there has been an inventory increment, the taxpayer must state the amount of the increment in current-year dollars (stated in terms of section
471 costs). The taxpayer then multiplies this amount by the combined absorption ratio. The resulting product is the additional section 263A costs that must be added to the taxpayer's increment for the year stated in terms of section 471 costs.
(C)
LIFO decrement.
If the taxpayer determines there has been an inventory decrement, the taxpayer must state the amount of the decrement in dollars applicable to the particular year for which the LIFO layer has been invaded. The additional section 263A costs incurred in prior years that are applicable to the decrement are charged to cost of goods sold. The additional section 263A costs that are applicable to the decrement are determined by multiplying the additional section 263A costs allocated to the layer of the pool in which the decrement occurred by the ratio of the decrement (excluding additional section 263A costs) to the section 471 costs in the layer of that pool.
(iii)
Permissible variations of the simplified resale method.
The following variations of the simplified resale method are permitted:
(A) The exclusion of beginning inventories from the denominator in the storage and handling costs absorption ratio formula in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section; or
(B) Multiplication of the storage and handling costs absorption ratio in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(D) of this section by the total of section 471 costs included in a LIFO taxpayer's ending inventory (rather than just the increment, if any, experienced by the LIFO taxpayer during the taxable year) for purposes of determining capitalizable storage and handling costs.
(iv)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (d)(3) are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1. FIFO inventory method.
(i) Taxpayer S uses the FIFO method of accounting for inventories. S's beginning inventory for 1994 (all of which was sold during 1994) was $2,100,000 (consisting of $2,000,000 of section 471 costs and $100,000 of additional section 263A costs). During 1994, S makes purchases of $10,000,000. In addition, S incurs purchasing costs of $460,000, storage costs of $110,000, and handling costs of $90,000. S's purchases (section 471 costs) remaining in ending inventory at the end of 1994 are $3,000,000.
(ii) In 1994, S incurs $400,000 of total mixed service costs and $1,000,000 of total labor costs (excluding labor costs included in mixed service costs). In addition, S incurs the following labor costs (excluding labor costs included in mixed service costs): purchasing—$100,000, storage—$200,000, and handling—$200,000. Accordingly, the following mixed service costs must be included in purchasing costs, storage costs, and handling costs as capitalizable mixed service costs: purchasing—$40,000 ([$100,000 divided by $1,000,000] multiplied by $400,000); storage—$80,000 ([$200,000 divided by $1,000,000] multiplied by $400,000); and handling—$80,000 ([$200,000 divided by $1,000,000] multiplied by $400,000).
(iii) S computes its purchasing costs absorption ratio for 1994 as follows:
EC10OC91.017
(iv) S computes its storage and handling costs absorption ratio for 1994 as follows:
EC10OC91.018
(v) S's combined absorption ratio is 8.0 %, or the sum of the purchasing costs absorption ratio (5.0 %) and the storage and handling costs absorption ratio (3.0 %). Under the simplified resale method, S determines the additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory by multiplying the combined absorption ratio by its section 471 costs with respect to current year's purchases remaining in ending inventory:
EC10OC91.019
(vi) S adds this $240,000 to the $3,000,000 of purchases remaining in its ending inventory to determine its total ending FIFO inventory of $3,240,000.

# Example 2. LIFO inventory method.
(i) Taxpayer T uses a dollar-value LIFO inventory method. T's beginning inventory for 1994 is $2,100,000 (consisting of $2,000,000 of section 471 costs and $100,000 of additional section 263A costs). During 1994, T makes purchases of $10,000,000. In addition, T incurs purchasing costs of $460,000, storage costs of $110,000, and handling costs of $90,000. T's 1994 LIFO increment is $1,000,000 ($3,000,000 of section 471 costs in ending inventory less $2,000,000 of section 471 costs in beginning inventory).
(ii) In 1994, T incurs $400,000 of total mixed service costs and $1,000,000 of total labor costs (excluding labor costs included in mixed service costs). In addition, T incurs the following labor costs (excluding labor costs included in mixed service costs): purchasing—$100,000, storage—$200,000, and handling—$200,000. Accordingly, the following mixed service costs must be included in purchasing costs, storage costs, and handling costs as capitalizable mixed service costs: purchasing—$40,000 ([$100,000 divided by $1,000,000] multiplied by $400,000); storage—$80,000 ([ $200,000 divided by $1,000,000] multiplied by $400,000); and handling—$80,000 ([ $200,000 divided by $1,000,000] multiplied by $400,000).
(iii) Based on these facts, T determines that it has a combined absorption ratio of 8.0 %. To determine the additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory, T multiplies its combined absorption ratio (8.0 %) by the $1,000,000 LIFO increment. Thus, T's additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory are $80,000 ($1,000,000 multiplied by 8.0 %). This $80,000 is added to the $1,000,000 to determine a total 1994 LIFO increment of $1,080,000. T's ending inventory is $3,180,000 (its beginning inventory of $2,100,000 plus the $1,080,000 increment).
(iv) In 1995, T sells one-half of the inventory in its 1994 LIFO increment. T must include in its cost of goods sold for 1995 the amount of additional section 263A costs relating to this inventory, i.e., one-half of the $80,000 additional section 263A costs capitalized in 1994 ending inventory, or $40,000.

# Example 3. LIFO Pools.
(i) Taxpayer U begins its business in 1994, and adopts the LIFO inventory method. During 1994, U makes purchases of $10,000, and incurs $400 of purchasing costs, $350 of storage costs and $250 of handling costs. U's purchasing costs, storage costs, and handling costs include their proper allocable share of mixed service costs.
(ii) U computes its purchasing costs absorption ratio for 1994, as follows:
EC10OC91.020
(iii) U computes its storage and handling costs absorption ratio for 1994, as follows:
EC10OC91.021
(iv) U's combined absorption ratio is 10%, or the sum of the purchasing costs absorption ratio (4.0%) and the storage and handling costs absorption ratio (6.0%). At the end of 1994, U's ending inventory included $3,000 of current year purchases, contained in three LIFO pools (X, Y, and Z) as shown below. Under the simplified resale method, U computes its ending inventory for 1994 as follows:
1994
Total
X
Y
Z
Ending section 471 costs
$3,000
$1,600
$600
$800
Additional section 263A costs (10%)
300
160
60
80
1994 ending inventory
3,300
1,760
660
880
(v) During 1995, U makes purchases of $2,000 as shown below, and incurs $200 of purchasing costs, $325 of storage costs and $175 of handling costs. U's purchasing costs, storage costs, and handling costs include their proper share of mixed service costs. Moreover, U sold goods from pools X, Y, and Z having a total cost of $1,000. U computes its ending inventory for 1995 as follows.
(vi) U computes its purchasing costs absorption ratio for 1995:
EC10OC91.022
(vii) U computes its storage and handling costs absorption ratio for 1995:
EC10OC91.023
(viii) U's combined absorption ratio is 20.0%, or the sum of the purchasing costs absorption ratio (10.0%) and the storage and handling costs absorption ratio (10.0%).
1995
Total
X
Y
Z
Beginning section 471 costs
$3,000
$1,600
$600
$800
1995 section 471 costs
2,000
1,500
300
200
Section 471 cost of goods sold
(1,000)
(300)
(300)
(400)
1995 ending section 471 costs
4,000
2,800
600
600
Consisting of:
1994 layer
2,800
1,600
600
600
1995 layer
1,200
1,200
4,000
2,800
600
600
Additional section 263A costs:
1994 (10%)
280
160
60
60
1995 (20%)
240
240
520
400
60
60
1995 ending inventory
4,520
3,200
660
660
(ix) In 1995, U experiences a $200 decrement in Pool Z. Thus, U must charge the additional section 263A costs incurred in prior years applicable to the decrement to 1995's cost of goods sold. To do so, U determines a ratio by dividing the decrement by the section 471 costs in the 1994 layer ($200 divided by $800, or 25%). U then multiplies this ratio (25%) by the additional section 263A costs in the 1994 layer ($80) to determine the additional section 263A costs applicable to the decrement ($20). Therefore, $20 is taken into account by U in 1995 as part of its cost of goods sold ($80 multiplied by 25%).
(4)
Simplified resale method with historic absorption ratio election
—(i)
In general.
This paragraph (d)(4) permits resellers using the simplified resale method to elect a historic absorption ratio in determining additional section 263A costs allocable to eligible property remaining on hand at the close of their taxable years. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section, a taxpayer may only make a historic absorption ratio election if it has used the simplified resale method for three or more consecutive taxable years immediately prior to the year of election. The historic absorption ratio is used in lieu of an actual combined absorption ratio computed under paragraph (d)(3)(i)(C)(
1
) of this section and is based on costs capitalized by a taxpayer during its test period. If elected, the historic absorption ratio must be used for the qualifying period described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(C) of this section.
(ii)
Operating rules and definitions
—(A)
Historic absorption ratio.
(
1
) The historic absorption ratio is equal to the following ratio:
EC10OC91.024
(
2
) Additional section 263A costs incurred during the test period are defined as the sum of the products of the combined absorption ratios (defined in paragraph (d)(3)(i)(C)(
1
) of this section) multiplied by a taxpayer's section 471 costs incurred with respect to purchases, for each taxable year of the test period.
(
3
) Section 471 costs incurred during the test period mean the section 471 costs described in § 1.263A-1(d)(2) that a taxpayer incurs generally with respect to its purchases during the test period described in paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.
(B)
Test period
—(
1
)
In general.
The test period is generally the three taxable-year period immediately prior to the taxable year that the historic absorption ratio is elected.
(
2
)
Updated test period.
The test period begins again with the beginning of the first taxable year after the close of a qualifying period (as defined in paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(C) of this section). This new test period, the updated test period, is the three taxable-year period beginning with the first taxable year after the close of the qualifying period.
(C)
Qualifying period
—(
1
)
In general.
A qualifying period includes each of the first five taxable years beginning with the first taxable year after a test period (or updated test period).
(
2
)
Extension of qualifying period.
In the first taxable year following the close of each qualifying period (e.g., the sixth taxable year following the test period), the taxpayer must compute the actual combined absorption
ratio under the simplified resale method. If the actual combined absorption ratio computed for this taxable year (the recomputation year) is within one-half of one percentage point (plus or minus) of the historic absorption ratio used in determining capitalizable costs for the qualifying period (i.e., the previous five taxable years), the qualifying period must be extended to include the recomputation year and the following five taxable years, and the taxpayer must continue to use the historic absorption ratio throughout the extended qualifying period. If, however, the actual combined absorption ratio computed for the recomputation year is not within one-half of one percentage point (plus or minus) of the historic absorption ratio, the taxpayer must use actual combined absorption ratios beginning with the recomputation year under the simplified resale method and throughout the updated test period. The taxpayer must resume using the historic absorption ratio (determined with reference to the updated test period) in the third taxable year following the recomputation year.
(iii)
Method of accounting
—(A)
Adoption and use.
The election to use the historic absorption ratio is a method of accounting. A taxpayer using the simplified resale method may elect the historic absorption ratio in any taxable year if permitted under this paragraph (d)(4), provided the taxpayer has not obtained the Commissioner's consent to revoke the historic absorption ratio election within its prior six taxable years. The election is to be effected on a cut-off basis, and thus, no adjustment under section 481(a) is required or permitted. The use of a historic absorption ratio has no effect on other methods of accounting adopted by the taxpayer and used in conjunction with the simplified resale method in determining its section 263A costs. Accordingly, in computing its actual combined absorption ratios, the taxpayer must use the same methods of accounting used in computing its historic absorption ratio during its most recent test period unless the taxpayer obtains the consent of the Commissioner. Finally, for purposes of this paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(A), the recomputation of the historic absorption ratio during an updated test period and the change from a historic absorption ratio to an actual combined absorption ratio during an updated test period by reason of the requirements of this paragraph (d)(4) are not considered changes in methods of accounting under section 446(e) and, thus, do not require the consent of the Commissioner or any adjustments under section 481(a).
(B)
Revocation of election.
A taxpayer may only revoke its election to use the historic absorption ratio with the consent of the Commissioner in a manner prescribed under section 446(e) and the regulations thereunder. Consent to the change for any taxable year that is included in the qualifying period (or an extended qualifying period) will be granted only upon a showing of unusual circumstances.
(iv)
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements
—(A)
Reporting.
A taxpayer making an election under this paragraph (d)(4) must attach a statement to its federal income tax return for the taxable year in which the election is made showing the actual combined absorption ratios determined under the simplified resale method during its first test period. This statement must disclose the historic absorption ratio to be used by the taxpayer during its qualifying period. A similar statement must be attached to the federal income tax return for the first taxable year within any subsequent qualifying period (i.e., after an updated test period).
(B)
Recordkeeping.
A taxpayer must maintain all appropriate records and details supporting the historic absorption ratio until the expiration of the statute of limitations for the last year for which the taxpayer applied the particular historic absorption ratio in determining additional section 263A costs capitalized to eligible property.
(v) (A)
Transition to elect historic absorption ratio.
Taxpayers will be permitted to elect a historic absorption ratio in their first, second, or third taxable year beginning after December 31, 1993, under such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Commissioner. Taxpayers are eligible to make an election under these transition rules whether or not they previously used the simplified resale method. A taxpayer making such an
election must recompute (or compute) its additional section 263A costs, and thus, its historic absorption ratio for its first test period as if the rules prescribed in this section and §§ 1.263A-1 and 1.263A-2 had applied throughout the test period.
(B)
Transition to revoke historic absorption ratio.
Notwithstanding the requirements provided in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(B) of this section regarding revocations of the historic absorption ratio during a qualifying period, a taxpayer will be permitted to revoke the historic absorption ratio in their first, second, or third taxable year ending on or after
November 20, 2018,
under such administrative procedures and with terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner.
(vi)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (d)(4) are illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
(i) Taxpayer V uses the FIFO method of accounting for inventories and in 1994 elects to use the historic absorption ratio with the simplified resale method. After recomputing its additional section 263A costs in accordance with the transition rules of paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section, V identifies the following costs incurred during the test period:
1991:
Add'l section 263A costs—$100
Section 471 costs—$3,000
1992:
Add'l section 263A costs—$200
Section 471 costs—$4,000
1993:
Add'l section 263A costs—$300
Section 471 costs—$5,000
(ii) Therefore, V computes a 5% historic absorption ratio determined as follows:
EC10OC91.025
(iii) In 1994, V incurs $10,000 of section 471 costs of which $3,000 remain in inventory at the end of the year. Under the simplified resale method using a historic absorption ratio, V determines the additional section 263A costs allocable to its ending inventory by multiplying its historic ratio (5%) by the section 471 costs remaining in its ending inventory:
EC10OC91.026
(iv) To determine its ending inventory under section 263A, V adds the additional section 263A costs allocable to ending inventory to its section 471 costs remaining in ending inventory ($3,150 = $150 + $3,000). The balance of V's additional section 263A costs incurred during 1994 is taken into account in 1994 as part of V's cost of goods sold.
(v) V's qualifying period ends as of the close of its 1998 taxable year. Therefore, 1999 is a recomputation year in which V must compute its actual combined absorption ratio. V determines its actual absorption ratio for 1999 to be 5.25% and compares that ratio to its historic absorption ratio (5.0%). Therefore, V must continue to use its historic absorption ratio of 5.0% throughout an extended qualifying period, 1999 through 2004 (the recomputation year and the following five taxable years).
(vi) If, instead, V's actual combined absorption ratio for 1999 were not between 4.5% and 5.5%, V's qualifying period would end and V would be required to compute a new historic absorption ratio with reference to an updated test period of 1999, 2000, and 2001. Once V's historic absorption ratio is determined for the updated test period, it would be used for a new qualifying period beginning in 2002.
(5)
Additional simplified methods for resellers.
The Commissioner may prescribe additional elective simplified methods by revenue ruling or revenue procedure.
(e)
Cross reference.
See § 1.6001-1(a) regarding the duty of taxpayers to keep
such records as are sufficient to establish the amount of gross income, deductions, etc.
(f)
Applicability dates.
(1) Paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(C)(
3
), (d)(3)(i)(D)(
3
), and (d)(3)(i)(E)(
3
) of this section apply for taxable years ending on or after January 13, 2014.
(2) The rules set forth in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the third sentence of paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and paragraphs (a)(4)(ii) and (a)(5) of this section apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 5, 2021 . However, for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 5, 2021, a taxpayer may apply the paragraphs described in the first sentence of this paragraph (f)(2), provided the taxpayer follows all the applicable rules contained in the regulations under section 263A for such taxable year and all subsequent taxable years.
[T.D. 8482, 58 FR 42224, Aug. 9, 1993; 58 FR 47784, Sept. 10, 1993; 59 FR 3319, Jan. 21, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8559, 59 FR 39962, Aug. 5, 1994, T.D. 9652, 79 FR 2097, Jan. 13, 2014; T.D. 9843, 83 FR 58498, Nov. 20, 2018; T.D. 9942, 86 FR 266, Jan. 5, 2021]
§ 1.263A-4
Rules for property produced in a farming business.
(a)
Introduction
—(1)
In general.
This section provides guidance with respect to the application of section 263A to property produced in a farming business as defined in paragraph (a)(5) of this section. Except as otherwise provided by the rules of this section, the general rules of §§ 1.263A-1 through 1.263A-3 and §§ 1.263A-7 through 1.263A-15 apply to property produced in a farming business. A taxpayer that engages in the raising or growing of any agricultural or horticultural commodity, including both plants and animals, is engaged in the production of property. Section 263A generally requires the capitalization of the direct costs and an allocable portion of the indirect costs that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the production of this property. The direct and indirect costs of producing plants or animals generally include preparatory costs allocable to the plant or animal and preproductive period costs of the plant or animal. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (e) of this section, taxpayers must capitalize the costs of producing all plants and animals unless the election described in paragraph (d) of this section is made.
(2)
Exception
—(i)
In general.
Section 263A does not apply to the costs of producing plants with a preproductive period of 2 years or less or the costs of producing animals in a farming business, if the taxpayer is not—
(A) A corporation or partnership required to use an accrual method of accounting (accrual method) under section 447 in computing its taxable income from farming; or
(B) A tax shelter prohibited from using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting (cash method) under section 448(a)(3).
(ii)
Tax shelter
—(A)
In general.
A farming business is considered a tax shelter, and thus a taxpayer prohibited from using the cash method under section 448(a)(3), if the farming business is—
(
1
) A farming syndicate as defined in section 461(k); or
(
2
) A tax shelter, within the meaning of section 6662(d)(2)(C)(iii).
(B)
Presumption.
Marketed arrangements in which persons carry on farming activities using the services of a common managerial or administrative service will be presumed to have the principal purpose of tax avoidance, within the meaning of section 6662(d)(2)(C)(iii), if such persons prepay a substantial portion of their farming expenses with borrowed funds.
(iii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (a)(2):

# Example 1.
Farmer A grows trees that have a preproductive period in excess of 2 years, and that produce an annual crop. Farmer A is not required by section 447 to use an accrual method or prohibited by section 448(a)(3) from using the cash method. Accordingly, Farmer A qualifies for the exception described in this paragraph (a)(2). Since the trees have a preproductive period in excess of 2 years, Farmer A must capitalize the direct costs and an allocable portion of the indirect costs that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the production of the trees. Since the annual crop has a preproductive period of 2 years or less, Farmer A is not required to capitalize the costs of producing the crops.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as
Example 1,
except that Farmer A is required by section 447 to use an accrual method or prohibited by 448(a)(3) from using the cash method. Farmer A does not qualify for the exception described in this paragraph (a)(2). Farmer A is required to capitalize the direct costs and an allocable portion of the indirect costs that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the production of the trees and crops.
(3)
Exemption for certain small business taxpayers.
For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, see § 1.263A-1(j) for an exception in the case of a small business taxpayer that meets the gross receipts test of section 448(c) and § 1.448-2(c).
(4)
Costs required to be capitalized or inventoried under another provision.
The exceptions from capitalization provided in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), (d) and (e) of this section do not apply to any cost that is required to be capitalized or inventoried under another Internal Revenue Code or regulatory provision, such as section 263 or 471.
(5)
Farming business
—(i)
In general.
A farming business means a trade or business involving the cultivation of land or the raising or harvesting of any agricultural or horticultural commodity. Examples include the trade or business of operating a nursery or sod farm; the raising or harvesting of trees bearing fruit, nuts, or other crops; the raising of ornamental trees (other than evergreen trees that are more than 6 years old at the time they are severed from their roots); and the raising, shearing, feeding, caring for, training, and management of animals. For purposes of this section, the term harvesting does not include contract harvesting of an agricultural or horticultural commodity grown or raised by another. Similarly, merely buying and reselling plants or animals grown or raised entirely by another is not raising an agricultural or horticultural commodity. A taxpayer is engaged in raising a plant or animal, rather than the mere resale of a plant or animal, if the plant or animal is held for further cultivation and development prior to sale. In determining whether a plant or animal is held for further cultivation and development prior to sale, consideration will be given to all of the facts and circumstances, including: the value added by the taxpayer to the plant or animal through agricultural or horticultural processes; the length of time between the taxpayer's acquisition of the plant or animal and the time that the taxpayer makes the plant or animal available for sale; and in the case of a plant, whether the plant is kept in the container in which purchased, replanted in the ground, or replanted in a series of larger containers as it is grown to a larger size.
(A)
Plant.
A plant produced in a farming business includes, but is not limited to, a fruit, nut, or other crop bearing tree, an ornamental tree, a vine, a bush, sod, and the crop or yield of a plant that will have more than one crop or yield raised by the taxpayer. Sea plants are produced in a farming business if they are tended and cultivated as opposed to merely harvested.
(B)
Animal.
An animal produced in a farming business includes, but is not limited to, any stock, poultry or other bird, and fish or other sea life raised by the taxpayer. Thus, for example, the term animal may include a cow, chicken, emu, or salmon raised by the taxpayer. Fish and other sea life are produced in a farming business if they are raised on a fish farm. A fish farm is an area where fish or other sea life are grown or raised as opposed to merely caught or harvested.
(ii)
Incidental activities
—(A)
In general.
A farming business includes processing activities that are normally incident to the growing, raising, or harvesting of agricultural or horticultural products. For example, a taxpayer in the trade or business of growing fruits and vegetables may harvest, wash, inspect, and package the fruits and vegetables for sale. Such activities are normally incident to the raising of these crops by farmers. The taxpayer will be considered to be in the trade or business of farming with respect to the growing of fruits and vegetables and the processing activities incident to their harvest.
(B)
Activities that are not incidental.
Farming business does not include the processing of commodities or products beyond those activities that are normally incident to the growing, raising, or harvesting of such products.
(iii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (a)(5):

# Example 1.
Individual A operates a retail nursery. Individual A has three categories of plants. The first category is comprised of plants that Individual A grows from seeds or cuttings. The second category is comprised of plants that Individual A purchases in containers and grows for a period of from several months to several years. Individual A replants some of these plants in the ground. The others are replanted in a series of larger containers as they grow. The third category is comprised of plants that are purchased by Individual A in containers. Individual A does not grow these plants to a larger size before making them available for resale. Instead, Individual A makes these plants available for resale, in the container in which purchased, shortly after receiving them. Thus, no value is added to these plants by Individual A through horticultural processes. Individual A also sells soil, mulch, chemicals, and yard tools. Individual A is producing property in the farming business with respect to the first two categories of plants because these plants are held for further cultivation and development prior to sale. The plants in the third category are not held for further cultivation and development prior to sale and, therefore, are not regarded as property produced in a farming business for purposes of section 263A. Accordingly, Individual A must account for the third category of plants, along with the soil, mulch, chemicals, and yard tools, as property acquired for resale. If Individual A's average annual gross receipts are less than $10 million,

# Example 2.
Individual B is in the business of growing and harvesting wheat and other grains. Individual B also processes grain that Individual B has harvested in order to produce breads, cereals, and other similar food products, which Individual B then sells to customers in the course of its business. Although Individual B is in the farming business with respect to the growing and harvesting of grain, Individual B is not in the farming business with respect to the processing of such grain to produce the food products.

# Example 3.
Individual C is in the business of raising poultry and other livestock. Individual C also operates a meat processing operation in which the poultry and other livestock are slaughtered, processed, and packaged or canned. The packaged or canned meat is sold to Individual C's customers. Although Individual C is in the farming business with respect to the raising of poultry and other livestock, Individual C is not in the farming business with respect to the slaughtering, processing, packaging, and canning of such animals to produce the food products.
(b)
Application of section 263A to property produced in a farming business
—(1)
In general.
Unless otherwise provided in this section, section 263A requires the capitalization of the direct costs and an allocable portion of the indirect costs that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the production of any property in a farming business (including animals and plants without regard to the length of their preproductive period). Section 1.263A-1(e) describes the types of direct and indirect costs that generally must be capitalized by taxpayers under section 263A and paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section provide specific examples of the types of costs typically incurred in the trade or business of farming. For purposes of this section, soil and water conservation expenditures that a taxpayer has elected to deduct under section 175 and fertilizer that a taxpayer has elected to deduct under section 180 are not subject to capitalization under section 263A, except to the extent these costs are required to be capitalized as a preproductive period cost of a plant or animal.
(i)
Plants.
The costs of producing a plant typically required to be capitalized under section 263A include the costs incurred so that the plant's growing process may begin (preparatory costs), such as the acquisition costs of the seed, seedling, or plant, and the costs of planting, cultivating, maintaining, or developing the plant during the preproductive period (preproductive period costs). Preproductive period costs include, but are not limited to, management, irrigation, pruning, soil and water conservation (including costs that the taxpayer has elected to deduct under section 175), fertilizing (including costs that the taxpayer has elected to deduct under section 180), frost protection, spraying, harvesting, storage and handling, upkeep, electricity, tax depreciation and repairs on buildings and equipment used in raising the plants, farm overhead, taxes (except state and Federal income taxes), and interest required to be capitalized under section 263A(f).
(ii)
Animals.
The costs of producing an animal typically required to be capitalized under section 263A include the
costs incurred so that the animal's raising process may begin (preparatory costs), such as the acquisition costs of the animal, and the costs of raising or caring for such animal during the preproductive period (preproductive period costs). Preproductive period costs include, but are not limited to, management, feed (such as grain, silage, concentrates, supplements, haylage, hay, pasture and other forages), maintaining pasture or pen areas (including costs that the taxpayer has elected to deduct under sections 175 or 180), breeding, artificial insemination, veterinary services and medicine, livestock hauling, bedding, fuel, electricity, hired labor, tax depreciation and repairs on buildings and equipment used in raising the animals (for example, barns, trucks, and trailers), farm overhead, taxes (except state and Federal income taxes), and interest required to be capitalized under section 263A(f).
(2)
Preproductive period
—(i)
Plant
—(A)
In general.
The preproductive period of property produced in a farming business means—
(
1
) In the case of a plant that will have more than one crop or yield (for example, an orange tree), the period before the first marketable crop or yield from such plant;
(
2
) In the case of the crop or yield of a plant that will have more than one crop or yield (for example, the orange), the period before such crop or yield is disposed of; or
(
3
) In the case of any other plant, the period before such plant is disposed of.
(B)
Applicability of section 263A.
For purposes of determining whether a plant has a preproductive period in excess of 2 years, the preproductive period of plants grown in commercial quantities in the United States is based on the nationwide weighted average preproductive period for such plant. The Commissioner will publish a noninclusive list of plants with a nationwide weighted average preproductive period in excess of 2 years. In the case of other plants grown in commercial quantities in the United States, the nationwide weighted average preproductive period must be determined based on available statistical data. For all other plants, the taxpayer is required, at or before the time the seed or plant is acquired or planted, to reasonably estimate the preproductive period of the plant. If the taxpayer estimates a preproductive period in excess of 2 years, the taxpayer must capitalize the costs of producing the plant. If the estimate is reasonable, based on the facts in existence at the time it is made, the determination of whether section 263A applies is not modified at a later time even if the actual length of the preproductive period differs from the estimate. The actual length of the preproductive period will, however, be considered in evaluating the reasonableness of the taxpayer's future estimates. The nationwide weighted average preproductive period or the estimated preproductive period is only used for purposes of determining whether the preproductive period of a plant is greater than 2 years.
(C)
Actual preproductive period.
The plant's actual preproductive period is used for purposes of determining the period during which a taxpayer must capitalize preproductive period costs with respect to a particular plant.
(
1
)
Beginning of the preproductive period.
The actual preproductive period of a plant begins when the taxpayer first incurs costs that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the plant. Generally, this occurs when the taxpayer plants the seed or plant. In the case of a taxpayer that acquires plants that have already been permanently planted, or plants that are tended by the taxpayer or another prior to permanent planting, the actual preproductive period of the plant begins upon acquisition of the plant by the taxpayer. In the case of the crop or yield of a plant that will have more than one crop or yield, the actual preproductive period begins when the plant has become productive in marketable quantities and the crop or yield first appears, for example, in the form of a sprout, bloom, blossom, or bud.
(
2
)
End of the preproductive period
—(i)
In general.
In the case of a plant that will have more than one crop or yield, the actual preproductive period ends when the plant first becomes productive in marketable quantities. In the case of any other plant (including the crop or yield of a plant that will have
more than one crop or yield), the actual preproductive period ends when the plant, crop, or yield is sold or otherwise disposed of. Field costs, such as irrigating, fertilizing, spraying and pruning, that are incurred after the harvest of a crop or yield but before the crop or yield is sold or otherwise disposed of are not required to be included in the preproductive period costs of the harvested crop or yield because they do not benefit and are unrelated to the harvested crop or yield.
(ii)
Marketable quantities.
A plant that will have more than one crop or yield becomes productive in marketable quantities once a crop or yield is produced in sufficient quantities to be harvested and marketed in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's business. Factors that are relevant to determining whether a crop or yield is produced in sufficient quantities to be harvested and marketed in the ordinary course include: whether the crop or yield is harvested that is more than
de minimis,
although it may be less than expected at the maximum bearing stage, based on a comparison of the quantities per acre harvested in the year in question to the quantities per acre expected to be harvested when the plant reaches full maturity; and whether the sales proceeds exceed the costs of harvest and make a reasonable contribution to an allocable share of farm expenses.
(D)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (b)(2):

# Example 1.
(i) Farmer A, a taxpayer that qualifies for the exception in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, grows plants that will have more than one crop or yield. The plants are grown in commercial quantities in the United States. Farmer A acquires 1 year-old plants by purchasing them from an unrelated party, Corporation B, and plants them immediately. The nationwide weighted average preproductive period of the plant is 4 years. The particular plants grown by Farmer A do not begin to produce in marketable quantities until 3 years and 6 months after they are planted by Farmer A.
(ii) Since the plants are deemed to have a preproductive period in excess of 2 years, Farmer A is required to capitalize the costs of producing the plants. See paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
1
) of this section, Farmer A must begin to capitalize the preproductive period costs when the plants are planted. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section, Farmer A must continue to capitalize preproductive period costs to the plants until the plants begin to produce in marketable quantities. Thus, Farmer A must capitalize the preproductive period costs for a period of 3 years and 6 months (that is, until the plants are 4 years and 6 months old), notwithstanding the fact that the plants, in general, have a nationwide weighted average preproductive period of 4 years.

# Example 2.
(i) Farmer B, a taxpayer that qualifies for the exception in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, grows plants that will have more than one crop or yield. The plants are grown in commercial quantities in the United States. The nationwide weighted average preproductive period of the plant is 2 years and 5 months. Farmer B acquires 1 month-old plants by purchasing them from an unrelated party, Corporation B. Farmer B enters into a contract with Corporation B under which Corporation B will retain and tend the plants for 7 months following the sale. At the end of 7 months, Farmer B takes possession of the plants and plants them in the permanent orchard. The plants become productive in marketable quantities 1 year and 11 months after they are planted by Farmer B.
(ii) Since the plants are deemed to have a preproductive period in excess of 2 years, Farmer B is required to capitalize the costs of producing the plants. See paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
1
) of this section, Farmer B must begin to capitalize the preproductive period costs when the purchase occurs. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section, Farmer B must continue to capitalize the preproductive period costs to the plants until the plants begin to produce in marketable quantities. Thus, Farmer B must capitalize the preproductive period costs of the plants for a period of 2 years and 6 months (the 7 months the plants are tended by Corporation B and the 1 year and 11 months after the plants are planted by Farmer B), that is, until the plants are 2 years and 7 months old, notwithstanding the fact that the plants, in general, have a nationwide weighted average preproductive period of 2 years and 5 months.

# Example 3.
(i) Assume the same facts as in
Example 2,
except that Farmer B acquires the plants by purchasing them from Corporation B when the plants are 8 months old and that the plants are planted by Farmer B upon acquisition.
(ii) Since the plants are deemed to have a preproductive period in excess of 2 years, Farmer B is required to capitalize the costs of producing the plants. See paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
1
) of this section, Farmer B must begin to capitalize the
preproductive period costs when the plants are planted. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section, Farmer B must continue to capitalize the preproductive period costs to the plants until the plants begin to produce in marketable quantities. Thus, Farmer B must capitalize the preproductive period costs of the plants for a period of 1 year and 11 months.

# Example 4.
(i) Farmer C, a taxpayer that qualifies for the exception in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, grows plants that will have more than one crop or yield. The plants are grown in commercial quantities in the United States. Farmer C acquires 1 month-old plants from an unrelated party and plants them immediately. The nationwide weighted average preproductive period of the plant is 2 years and 3 months. The particular plants grown by Farmer C begin to produce in marketable quantities 1 year and 10 months after they are planted by Farmer C.
(ii) Since the plants are deemed to have a nationwide weighted average preproductive period in excess of 2 years, Farmer C is required to capitalize the costs of producing the plants, notwithstanding the fact that the particular plants grown by Farmer C become productive in less than 2 years. See paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
1
) of this section, Farmer C must begin to capitalize the preproductive period costs when it plants the plants. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section, Farmer C properly ceases capitalization of preproductive period costs when the plants become productive in marketable quantities (that is, 1 year and 10 months after they are planted, which is when they are 1 year and 11 months old).

# Example 5.
(i) Farmer D, a taxpayer that qualifies for the exception in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, grows plants that will have more than one crop or yield. The plants are not grown in commercial quantities in the United States. Farmer D acquires and plants the plants when they are 1 year old and estimates that they will become productive in marketable quantities 3 years after planting. Thus, at the time the plants are acquired and planted Farmer D reasonably estimates that the plants will have a preproductive period of 4 years. The actual plants grown by Farmer D do not begin to produce in marketable quantities until 3 years and 6 months after they are planted by Farmer D.
(ii) Since the plants have an estimated preproductive period in excess of 2 years, Farmer D is required to capitalize the costs of producing the plants. See paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
1
) of this section, Farmer D must begin to capitalize the preproductive period costs when it acquires and plants the plants. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section, Farmer D must continue to capitalize the preproductive period costs until the plants begin to produce in marketable quantities. Thus, Farmer D must capitalize the preproductive period costs of the plants for a period of 3 years and 6 months (that is, until the plants are 4 years and 6 months old), notwithstanding the fact that Farmer D estimated that the plants would become productive after 4 years.

# Example 6.
(i) Farmer E, a taxpayer that qualifies for the exception in paragraph (a)(2) of this section grows plants from seed. The plants are not grown in commercial quantities in the United States. The plants do not have more than 1 crop or yield. At the time the seeds are planted Farmer E reasonably estimates that the plants will have a preproductive period of 1 year and 10 months. The actual plants grown by Farmer E are not ready for harvesting and disposal until 2 years and 2 months after the seeds are planted by Farmer E.
(ii) Because Farmer E's estimate of the preproductive period (which was 2 years or less) was reasonable at the time made based on the facts, Farmer E will not be required to capitalize the costs of producing the plants under section 263A, notwithstanding the fact that the actual preproductive period of the plants exceeded 2 years. See paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section. However, Farmer E must take the actual preproductive period of the plants into consideration when making future estimates of the preproductive period of such plants.

# Example 7.
(i) Farmer F, a calendar year taxpayer that does not qualify for the exception in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, grows trees that will have more than one crop. Farmer F acquires and plants the trees in April, Year 1. On October 1, Year 6, the trees become productive in marketable quantities.
(ii) The costs of producing the plant, including the preproductive period costs incurred by Farmer F on or before October 1, Year 6, are capitalized to the trees. Preproductive period costs incurred after October 1, Year 6, are capitalized to a crop when incurred during the preproductive period of the crop and deducted as a cost of maintaining the tree when incurred between the disposal of one crop and the appearance of the next crop. See paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A), (b)(2)(i)(C)(
1
) and (b)(2)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section.

# Example 8.
(i) Farmer G, a taxpayer that qualifies for the exception in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, produces fig trees on 10 acres of land. The fig trees are grown in commercial quantities in the United States and have a nationwide weighted average preproductive period in excess of 2 years. Farmer G acquires and plants the fig trees in their permanent grove during Year 1. When the fig trees are mature, Farmer G expects to harvest 10x tons of figs per acre. At the end of Year 4, Farmer G harvests .5x tons of figs per
acre that it sells for $100x. During Year 4, Farmer G incurs expenses related to the fig operation of: $50x to harvest the figs and transport them to market and other direct and indirect costs related to the fig operation in the amount of $1000x.
(ii) Since the fig trees have a preproductive period in excess of 2 years, Farmer G is required to capitalize the costs of producing the fig trees. See paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section. In accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C)(
2
) of this section, Farmer G must continue to capitalize preproductive period costs to the trees until they become productive in marketable quantities. The following factors weigh in favor of a determination that the fig trees did not become productive in Year 4: the quantity of harvested figs is
de minimis
based on the fact that the yield is only 5 percent of the expected yield at maturity and the proceeds from the sale of the figs are sufficient, after covering the costs of harvesting and transporting the figs, to cover only a negligible portion of the allocable farm expenses. Based on these facts and circumstances, the fig trees did not become productive in marketable quantities in Year 4.
(ii)
Animal.
An animal's actual preproductive period is used to determine the period that the taxpayer must capitalize preproductive period costs with respect to a particular animal.
(A)
Beginning of the preproductive period.
The preproductive period of an animal begins at the time of acquisition, breeding, or embryo implantation.
(B)
End of the preproductive period.
In the case of an animal that will be used in the trade or business of farming (for example, a dairy cow), the preproductive period generally ends when the animal is (or would be considered) placed in service for purposes of section 168 (without regard to the applicable convention). However, in the case of an animal that will have more than one yield (for example, a breeding cow), the preproductive period ends when the animal produces (for example, gives birth to) its first yield. In the case of any other animal, the preproductive period ends when the animal is sold or otherwise disposed of.
(C)
Allocation of costs between animal and yields.
In the case of an animal that will have more than one yield, the costs incurred after the beginning of the preproductive period of the first yield but before the end of the preproductive period of the animal must be allocated between the animal and the yield using any reasonable method. Any depreciation allowance on the animal may be allocated entirely to the yield. Costs incurred after the beginning of the preproductive period of the second yield, but before the first yield is weaned from the animal must be allocated between the first and second yield using any reasonable method. However, a taxpayer may elect to allocate these costs entirely to the second yield. An allocation method used by a taxpayer is a method of accounting that must be used consistently and is subject to the rules of section 446 and the regulations thereunder.
(c)
Inventory methods
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided, the costs required to be allocated to any plant or animal under this section may be determined using reasonable inventory valuation methods such as the farm-price method or the unit-livestock-price method. See § 1.471-6. Under the unit-livestock-price method, unit prices must include all costs required to be capitalized under section 263A. A taxpayer using the unit-livestock-price method may elect to use the cost allocation methods in § 1.263A-1(f) or 1.263A-2(b) to allocate its direct and indirect costs to the property produced in the business of farming. In such a situation, section 471 costs are the costs taken into account by the taxpayer under the unit-livestock-price method using the taxpayer's standard unit price as modified by this paragraph (c)(1). Tax shelters, as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, that use the unit-livestock-price method for inventories must include in inventory the annual standard unit price for all animals that are acquired during the taxable year, regardless of whether the purchases are made during the last 6 months of the taxable year. Taxpayers required by section 447 to use an accrual method or prohibited by section 448(a)(3) from using the cash method that use the unit-livestock-price method must modify the annual standard price in order to reasonably reflect the particular period in the taxable year in which purchases of livestock are made, if such modification is necessary in order to avoid significant distortions in
income that would otherwise occur through operation of the unit-livestock-price method.
(2)
Available for property used in a trade or business.
The farm-price method or the unit-livestock-price method may be used by any taxpayer to allocate costs to any plant or animal under this section, regardless of whether the plant or animal is held or treated as inventory property by the taxpayer. Thus, for example, a taxpayer may use the unit-livestock-price method to account for the costs of raising livestock that will be used in the trade or business of farming (for example, a breeding animal or a dairy cow) even though the property in question is not inventory property.
(3)
Exclusion of property to which section 263A does not apply.
Notwithstanding a taxpayer's use of the farm-price method with respect to farm property to which the provisions of section 263A apply, that taxpayer is not required, solely by such use, to use the farm-price method with respect to farm property to which the provisions of section 263A do not apply. Thus, for example, assume Farmer A raises fruit trees that have a preproductive period in excess of 2 years and to which the provisions of section 263A, therefore, apply. Assume also that Farmer A raises cattle and is not required to use an accrual method by section 447 or prohibited from using the cash method by section 448(a)(3). Because Farmer A qualifies for the exception in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, Farmer A is not required to capitalize the costs of raising the cattle. Although Farmer A may use the farm-price method with respect to the fruit trees, Farmer A is not required to use the farm-price method with respect to the cattle. Instead, Farmer A's accounting for the cattle is determined under other provisions of the Code and regulations.
(d)
Election not to have section 263A apply under section 263A(d)(3)
—(1)
Introduction.
This paragraph (d) permits certain taxpayers to make an election not to have the rules of this section apply to any plant produced in a farming business conducted by the electing taxpayer. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(5) and (6) of this section, the election is a method of accounting under section 446. An election made under section 263A(d)(3) and this paragraph (d) is revocable only with the consent of the Commissioner.
(2)
Availability of the election.
The election described in this paragraph (d) is available to any taxpayer that produces plants in a farming business, except that no election may be made by a corporation, partnership, or tax shelter required to use an accrual method under section 447 or prohibited from using the cash method by section 448(a)(3). Moreover, the election does not apply to the costs of planting, cultivation, maintenance, or development of a citrus or almond grove (or any part thereof) incurred prior to the close of the fourth taxable year beginning with the taxable year in which the trees were planted in the permanent grove (including costs incurred prior to the permanent planting). If a citrus or almond grove is planted in more than one taxable year, the portion of the grove planted in any one taxable year is treated as a separate grove for purposes of determining the year of planting.
(3)
Time and manner of making the election
—(i)
Automatic election.
A taxpayer makes the election under this paragraph (d) by not applying the rules of section 263A to determine the capitalized costs of plants produced in a farming business and by applying the special rules in paragraph (d)(4) of this section on its original return for the first taxable year in which the taxpayer is otherwise required to capitalize section 263A costs. Thus, in order to be treated as having made the election under this paragraph (d), it is necessary to report both income and expenses in accordance with the rules of this paragraph (d) (for example, it is necessary to use the alternative depreciation system as provided in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section). For example, a farmer who deducts costs that are otherwise required to be capitalized under section 263A but fails to use the alternative depreciation system under section 168(g)(2) for applicable property placed in service has not made an election under this paragraph (d) and is not in compliance with the provisions of section 263A.
(ii)
Nonautomatic election.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(5) and (6) of this section, a taxpayer that does not make the election under this paragraph (d) as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section must obtain the consent of the Commissioner to make the election by filing a Form 3115,
Application for Change in Method of Accounting,
in accordance with § 1.446-1(e)(3).
(4)
Special rules.
If the election under this paragraph (d) is made, the taxpayer is subject to the special rules in this paragraph (d)(4).
(i)
Section 1245 treatment.
The plant produced by the taxpayer is treated as section 1245 property and any gain resulting from any disposition of the plant is recaptured (that is, treated as ordinary income) to the extent of the total amount of the deductions that, but for the election, would have been required to be capitalized with respect to the plant. In calculating the amount of gain that is recaptured under this paragraph (d)(4)(i), a taxpayer may use the farm-price method or another simplified method permitted under these regulations in determining the deductions that otherwise would have been capitalized with respect to the plant.
(ii)
Required use of alternative depreciation system.
If the taxpayer or a related person makes an election under this paragraph (d), the alternative depreciation system (as defined in section 168(g)(2)) must be applied to all property used predominantly in any farming business of the taxpayer or related person and placed in service in any taxable year during which the election is in effect. The requirement to use the alternative depreciation system by reason of an election under this paragraph (d) will not prevent a taxpayer from making an election under section 179 to deduct certain depreciable business assets.
(iii)
Related person
—(A)
In general.
For purposes of this paragraph (d)(4), related person means—
(
1
) The taxpayer and members of the taxpayer's family;
(
2
) Any corporation (including an S corporation) if 50 percent or more of the stock (in value) is owned directly or indirectly (through the application of section 318) by the taxpayer or members of the taxpayer's family;
(
3
) A corporation and any other corporation that is a member of the same controlled group (within the meaning of section 1563(a)(1)); and
(
4
) Any partnership if 50 percent or more (in value) of the interests in such partnership is owned directly or indirectly by the taxpayer or members of the taxpayer's family.
(B)
Members of family.
For purposes of this paragraph (d)(4)(iii), the terms “members of the taxpayer's family”, and “members of family” (for purposes of applying section 318(a)(1)), means the spouse of the taxpayer (other than a spouse who is legally separated from the individual under a decree of divorce or separate maintenance) and any of the taxpayer's children (including legally adopted children) who have not reached the age of 18 as of the last day of the taxable year in question.
(5)
Revocation of section 263A(d)(3) election to permit exemption under section 263A(i).
A taxpayer that elected under section 263A(d)(3) and paragraph (d)(3) of this section not to have section 263A apply to any plant produced in a farming business that wants to revoke its section 263A(d)(3) election, and in the same taxable year, apply the small business taxpayer exemption under section 263A(i) and § 1.263A-1(j) may revoke the election in accordance with the applicable administrative guidance as published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter). A revocation of the taxpayer's section 263A(d)(3) election under this paragraph (d)(5) is not a change in method of accounting under sections 446 and 481 and §§ 1.446-1 and 1.481-1 through 1.481-5.
(6)
Change from applying exemption under section 263A(i) to making a section 263A(d)(3) election.
A taxpayer whose method of accounting is to not capitalize costs under section 263A based on the exemption under section 263A(i), that becomes ineligible to use the exemption under section 263A(i), and is eligible and wants to elect under section 263A(d)(3) for this same taxable year to not capitalize costs under section 263A for any plant produced in the taxpayer's farming business, must make the election in accordance with the applicable administrative guidance as published in the Internal Revenue
Bulletin (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(b) of this chapter). An election under section 263A(d)(3) made in accordance with this paragraph (d)(6) is not a change in method of accounting under sections 446 and 481 and §§ 1.446-1 and 1.481-1 through 1.481-5.
(7)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (d):

# Example 1.
(i) Farmer A, an individual, is engaged in the trade or business of farming. Farmer A grows apple trees that have a preproductive period greater than 2 years. In addition, Farmer A grows and harvests wheat and other grains. Farmer A elects under this paragraph (d) not to have the rules of section 263A apply to the costs of growing the apple trees.
(ii) In accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section, Farmer A is required to use the alternative depreciation system described in section 168(g)(2) with respect to all property used predominantly in any farming business in which Farmer A engages (including the growing and harvesting of wheat) if such property is placed in service during a year for which the election is in effect. Thus, for example, all assets and equipment (including trees and any equipment used to grow and harvest wheat) placed in service during a year for which the election is in effect must be depreciated as provided in section 168(g)(2).

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 1,
except that Farmer A and members of Farmer A's family (as defined in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(B) of this section) also own 51 percent (in value) of the interests in Partnership P, which is engaged in the trade or business of growing and harvesting corn. Partnership P is a related person to Farmer A under the provisions of paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section. Thus, the requirements to use the alternative depreciation system under section 168(g)(2) also apply to any property used predominantly in a trade or business of farming which Partnership P places in service during a year for which an election made by Farmer A is in effect.
(e)
Exception for certain costs resulting from casualty losses
—(1)
In general.
Section 263A does not require the capitalization of costs that are attributable to the replanting, cultivating, maintaining, and developing of any plants bearing an edible crop for human consumption (including, but not limited to, plants that constitute a grove, orchard, or vineyard) that were lost or damaged while owned by the taxpayer by reason of freezing temperatures, disease, drought, pests, or other casualty (replanting costs). Such replanting costs may be incurred with respect to property other than the property on which the damage or loss occurred to the extent the acreage of the property with respect to which the replanting costs are incurred is not in excess of the acreage of the property on which the damage or loss occurred. This paragraph (e) applies only to the replanting of plants of the same type as those lost or damaged. This paragraph (e) applies to plants replanted on the property on which the damage or loss occurred or property of the same or lesser acreage in the United States irrespective of differences in density between the lost or damaged and replanted plants. Plants bearing crops for human consumption are those crops normally eaten or drunk by humans. Thus, for example, costs incurred with respect to replanting plants bearing jojoba beans do not qualify for the exception provided in this paragraph (e) because that crop is not normally eaten or drunk by humans.
(2)
Ownership.
Replanting costs described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section generally must be incurred by the taxpayer that owned the property at the time the plants were lost or damaged. Paragraph (e)(1) of this section will apply, however, to costs incurred by a person other than the taxpayer that owned the plants at the time of damage or loss if—
(i) The taxpayer that owned the plants at the time the damage or loss occurred owns an equity interest of more than 50 percent in such plants at all times during the taxable year in which the replanting costs are paid or incurred; and
(ii) Such other person owns any portion of the remaining equity interest and materially participates in the replanting, cultivating, maintaining, or developing of such plants during the taxable year in which the replanting costs are paid or incurred. A person will be treated as materially participating for purposes of this provision if such person would otherwise meet the requirements with respect to material participation within the meaning of section 2032A(e)(6).
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (e):

# Example 1.
(i) Farmer A grows cherry trees that have a preproductive period in excess of 2 years and produce an annual crop. These cherries are normally eaten by humans. Farmer A grows the trees on a 100 acre parcel of land (parcel 1) and the groves of trees cover the entire acreage of parcel 1. Farmer A also owns a 150 acre parcel of land (parcel 2) that Farmer A holds for future use. Both parcels are in the United States. In 2000, the trees and the irrigation and drainage systems that service the trees are destroyed in a casualty (within the meaning of paragraph (e)(1) of this section). Farmer A installs new irrigation and drainage systems on parcel 1, purchases young trees (seedlings), and plants the seedlings on parcel 1.
(ii) The costs of the irrigation and drainage systems and the seedlings must be capitalized. In accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the costs of planting, cultivating, developing, and maintaining the seedlings during their preproductive period are not required to be capitalized by section 263A.

# Example 2.
(i) Assume the same facts as in
Example 1
except that Farmer A decides to replant the seedlings on parcel 2 rather than on parcel 1. Accordingly, Farmer A installs the new irrigation and drainage systems on 100 acres of parcel 2 and plants seedlings on those 100 acres.
(ii) The costs of the irrigation and drainage systems and the seedlings must be capitalized. Because the acreage of the related portion of parcel 2 does not exceed the acreage of the destroyed orchard on parcel 1, the costs of planting, cultivating, developing, and maintaining the seedlings during their preproductive period are not required to be capitalized by section 263A. See paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

# Example 3.
(i) Assume the same facts as in
Example 1
except that Farmer A replants the seedlings on parcel 2 rather than on parcel 1, and Farmer A additionally decides to expand its operations by growing 125 rather than 100 acres of trees. Accordingly, Farmer A installs new irrigation and drainage systems on 125 acres of parcel 2 and plants seedlings on those 125 acres.
(ii) The costs of the irrigation and drainage systems and the seedlings must be capitalized. The costs of planting, cultivating, developing, and maintaining 100 acres of the trees during their preproductive period are not required to be capitalized by section 263A. The costs of planting, cultivating, maintaining, and developing the additional 25 acres are, however, subject to capitalization under section 263A. See paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(4)
Special rule for citrus and almond groves
—(i)
In general.
The exception in this paragraph (e) is available with respect to replanting costs of a citrus or almond grove incurred prior to the close of the fourth taxable year after replanting, notwithstanding the taxpayer's election to have section 263A not apply (described in paragraph (d) of this section).
(ii)
Example.
The following example illustrates the provisions of this paragraph (e)(4):

# Example.
(i) Farmer A, an individual, is engaged in the trade or business of farming. Farmer A grows citrus trees that have a preproductive period of 5 years. Farmer A elects, under paragraph (d) of this section, not to have section 263A apply. This election, however, is unavailable with respect to the costs of producing a citrus grove incurred within the first 4 years beginning with the year the trees were planted. See paragraph (d)(2) of this section. In year 10, after the citrus grove has become productive in marketable quantities, the citrus grove is destroyed by a casualty within the meaning of paragraph (e)(1) of this section. In year 10, Farmer A acquires and plants young citrus trees in the same grove to replace those destroyed by the casualty.
(ii) Farmer A must capitalize the costs of producing the citrus grove incurred before the close of the fourth taxable year beginning with the year in which the trees were permanently planted. As a result of the election not to have section 263A apply, Farmer A may deduct the preproductive period costs incurred in the fifth year. In year 10, Farmer A must capitalize the acquisition cost of the young trees. However, the costs of planting, cultivating, developing, and maintaining the young trees that replace those destroyed by the casualty are exempted from capitalization under this paragraph (e).
(5)
Special temporary rule for citrus plants lost by reason of casualty.
Section 263A(d)(2)(A) provides that if plants bearing an edible crop for human consumption were lost or damaged while in the hands of the taxpayer by reason of freezing temperatures, disease, drought, pests, or casualty, section 263A does not apply to any costs of the taxpayer of replanting plants bearing the same type of crop (whether on the same parcel of land on which such lost or damaged plants were located or any other parcel of land of the same acreage in the United States). The rules of this paragraph (e)(5) apply to certain costs that are paid or incurred after
December 22, 2017, and on or before December 22, 2027, to replant citrus plants after the loss or damage of citrus plants. Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(2) of this section, in the case of replanting citrus plants after the loss or damage of citrus plants by reason of freezing temperatures, disease, drought, pests, or casualty, section 263A does not apply to replanting costs paid or incurred by a taxpayer other than the owner described in section 263A(d)(2)(A) if—
(i) The owner described in section 263A(d)(2)(A) has an equity interest of not less than 50 percent in the replanted citrus plants at all times during the taxable year in which such amounts were paid or incurred and the taxpayer holds any part of the remaining equity interest; or
(ii) The taxpayer acquired the entirety of the equity interest in the land of that owner described in section 263A(d)(2)(A) and on which land the lost or damaged citrus plants were located at the time of such loss or damage, and the replanting is on such land.
(f)
Change in method of accounting.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(5) and (6) of this section, any change in a taxpayer's method of accounting necessary to comply with this section is a change in method of accounting to which the provisions of sections 446 and 481 and § 1.446-1 through 1.446-7 and § 1.481-1 through § 1.481-3 apply.
(g)
Applicability dates
—(1)
In general.
In the case of property that is not inventory in the hands of the taxpayer, this section is applicable to costs incurred after August 21, 2000 in taxable years ending after August 21, 2000. In the case of inventory property, this section is applicable to taxable years beginning after August 21, 2000.
(2)
Changes made by Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 115-97).
Paragraphs (a)(3), (d)(5), (d)(6), and (e)(5) of this section apply for taxable years beginning on or after January 5, 2021. However, for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 5, 2021, a taxpayer may apply the paragraphs described in the first sentence of this paragraph (g)(2), provided that the taxpayer follows all the applicable rules contained in the regulations under section 263A for such taxable year and all subsequent taxable years.
[T.D. 8897, 65 FR 50644, Aug. 21, 2000; 65 FR 61092, Oct. 16, 2000; T.D. 9942, 86 FR 267, Jan. 5, 2021; 86 FR 32186, June 17, 2021]
§ 1.263A-5
Exception for qualified creative expenses incurred by certain free-lance authors, photographers, and artists. [Reserved]
§ 1.263A-6
Rules for foreign persons. [Reserved]
§ 1.263A-7
Changing a method of accounting under section 263A.
(a)
Introduction
—(1)
Purpose.
These regulations provide guidance to taxpayers changing their methods of accounting for costs subject to section 263A. The principal purpose of these regulations is to provide guidance regarding how taxpayers are to revalue property on hand at the beginning of the taxable year in which they change their method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A. Paragraph (c) of this section provides guidance regarding how items or costs included in beginning inventory in the year of change must be revalued. Paragraph (d) of this section provides guidance regarding how non-inventory property should be revalued in the year of change.
(2)
Taxpayers that adopt a method of accounting under section 263A.
Taxpayers may adopt a method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A in the first taxable year in which they engage in resale or production activities. For purposes of this section, the adoption of a method of accounting has the same meaning as provided in § 1.446-1(e)(1). Taxpayers are not subject to the provisions of these regulations to the extent they adopt, as opposed to change, a method of accounting.
(3)
Taxpayers that change a method of accounting under section 263A.
Taxpayers changing their method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A are subject to the revaluation and other provisions of this section. Taxpayers subject to these regulations include, but are not limited to—
(i) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, resellers of real or personal property or producers of real
or tangible personal property whose average annual gross receipts for the immediately preceding 3-taxable-year period, or lesser period if the taxpayer was not in existence for the three preceding taxable years, annualized as required, exceed the gross receipts test of section 448(c) and the accompanying regulations where the taxpayer was not subject to section 263A in the prior taxable year;
(ii) Resellers of real or personal property that are using a method that fails to comply with section 263A and desire to change to a method of accounting that complies with section 263A;
(iii) Producers of real or tangible personal property that are using a method that fails to comply with section 263A and desire to change to a method of accounting that complies with section 263A; and
(iv) Resellers and producers that desire to change from one permissible method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A to another permissible method.
(4)
Applicability dates
—(i)
In general.
The provisions of this section are effective for taxable years beginning on or after August 5, 1997. For taxable years beginning before August 5, 1997, the rules of § 1.263A-7T contained in the 26 CFR part 1 edition revised as of April 1, 1997, as modified by other administrative guidance, will apply.
(ii)
Changes made by Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 115-97).
Paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section applies to taxable years beginning on or after January 5, 2021. However, for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 5, 2021, a taxpayer may apply the paragraph described in the first sentence of this paragraph (a)(4)(ii), provided that the taxpayer follows all the applicable rules contained in the regulations under section 263A for such taxable year and all subsequent taxable years.
(5)
Definition of change in method of accounting.
For purposes of this section, a change in method of accounting has the same meaning as provided in § 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii). Changes in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A include changes to methods required or permitted by section 263A and the regulations thereunder. Changes in method of accounting may be described in the preceding sentence irrespective of whether the taxpayer's previous method of accounting resulted in the capitalization of more (or fewer) costs than the costs required to be capitalized under section 263A and the regulations thereunder, and irrespective of whether the taxpayer's previous method of accounting was a permissible method under the law in effect when the method was being used. However, changes in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A do not include changes relating to factors other than those described therein. For example, a change in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A does not include a change from one inventory identification method to another inventory identification method, such as a change from the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method to the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method, or vice versa, or a change from one inventory valuation method to another inventory valuation method under section 471, such as a change from valuing inventory at cost to valuing the inventory at cost or market, whichever is lower, or vice versa. In addition, a change in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A does not include a change within the LIFO inventory method, such as a change from the double extension method to the link-chain method, or a change in the method used for determining the number of pools. Further, a change from the modified resale method set forth in Notice 89-67 (1989-1 C.B. 723), see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter, to the simplified resale method set forth in § 1.263A-3(d) is not a change in method of accounting within the meaning of § 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii) and is therefore not subject to the provisions of this section. However, a change from the simplified resale method set forth in former § 1.263A-1T(d)(4) to the simplified resale method set forth in § 1.263A-3(d) is a change in method of accounting within the meaning of § 1.446-1(e)(2)(ii) and is subject to the provisions of this section.
(b)
Rules applicable to a change in method of accounting
—(1)
General rules.
All changes in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A are
subject to the rules and procedures provided by the Code, regulations, and administrative procedures applicable to such changes. The Internal Revenue Service has issued specific revenue procedures that govern certain accounting method changes for costs subject to section 263A. Where a specific revenue procedure is not applicable, changes in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A are subject to the same rules and procedures that govern other accounting method changes. See Revenue Procedure 2015-13 (2015-5 IRB 419) and § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter.
(2)
Special rules
—(i)
Ordering rules when multiple changes in method of accounting occur in the year of change
—(A)
In general.
A change in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A is generally deemed to occur (including the computation of the adjustment under section 481(a)) before any other change in method of accounting is deemed to occur for that same taxable year.
(B)
Exceptions to the general ordering rule
—(
1
)
Change from the LIFO inventory method.
In the case of a taxpayer that is discontinuing its use of the LIFO inventory method in the same taxable year it is changing its method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A, the change from the LIFO method may be made before the change in method of accounting (and the computation of the corresponding adjustment under section 481 (a)) under section 263A is made.
(
2
)
Change from the specific goods LIFO inventory method.
In the case of a taxpayer that is changing from the specific goods LIFO inventory method to the dollar-value LIFO inventory method in the same taxable year it is changing its method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A, the change from the specific goods LIFO inventory method may be made before the change in method of accounting under section 263A is made.
(
3
)
Change in overall method of accounting.
In the case of a taxpayer that is changing its overall method of accounting from the cash receipts and disbursements method to an accrual method in the same taxable year it is changing its method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A, the taxpayer must change to an accrual method for capitalizable costs (see § 1.263A-1(c)(2)(ii)) before the change in method of accounting (and the computation of the corresponding adjustment under section 481(a)) under section 263A is made.
(
4
)
Change in method of accounting for depreciation.
In the case of a taxpayer that is changing its method of accounting for depreciation in the same taxable year it is changing its method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A and any portion of the depreciation is subject to section 263A, the change in method of accounting for depreciation must be made before the change in method of accounting (and the computation of the corresponding adjustment under section 481(a)) under section 263A is made.
(ii)
Adjustment required by section 481(a).
In the case of any taxpayer required or permitted to change its method of accounting for any taxable year under section 263A and the regulations thereunder, the change will be treated as initiated by the taxpayer for purposes of the adjustment required by section 481(a). The taxpayer must take the net section 481(a) adjustment into account over the section 481(a) adjustment period as determined under the applicable administrative procedures issued under § 1.446-1(e)(3)(ii) for obtaining the Commissioner's consent to a change in accounting method (for example, see Revenue Procedure 2015-13, 2015-5 IRB 419 (or successor) (also see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter)). This paragraph applies to taxable years ending on or after June 16, 2004.
(iii)
Base year
—(A)
Need for a new base year.
Certain dollar-value LIFO taxpayers (whether using double extension or link-chain) must establish a new base year when they revalue their inventories under section 263A.
(
1
)
Facts and circumstances revaluation method used.
A dollar-value LIFO taxpayer that uses the facts and circumstances revaluation method is permitted, but not required, to establish a new base year.
(
2
)
3-year average method used
—(
i
)
Simplified method not used.
A dollar-value LIFO taxpayer using the 3-year average method but not the simplified production method or the simplified resale
method to revalue its inventory is required to establish a new base year.
(
ii
)
Simplified method used.
A dollar-value LIFO taxpayer using the 3-year average method and the simplified production method, the modified simplified production method, or the simplified resale method to revalue its inventory is permitted, but not required, to establish a new base year.
(B)
Computing a new base year.
For purposes of determining future indexes, the year of change becomes the new base year (that is, the index at the beginning of the year of change generally must be 1.00) and all costs are restated in new base year costs for purposes of extending such costs in future years. However, when a new base year is established, costs associated with old layers retain their separate identity within the base year, with such layers being restated in terms of the new base year index. For example, for purposes of determining whether a particular layer has been invaded, each layer must retain its separate identity. Thus, if a decrement in an inventory pool occurs, layers accumulated in more recent years must be viewed as invaded first, in order of priority.
(c)
Inventory
—(1)
Need for adjustments.
When a taxpayer changes its method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A, the taxpayer generally must, in computing its taxable income for the year of change, take into account the adjustments required by section 481(a). The adjustments required by section 481(a) relate to revaluations of inventory property, whether the taxpayer produces the inventory or acquires it for resale. See paragraph (d) of this section in regard to the adjustments required by section 481(a) that relate to non-inventory property.
(2)
Revaluing beginning inventory
—(i)
In general.
If a taxpayer changes its method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A, the taxpayer must revalue the items or costs included in its beginning inventory in the year of change as if the new method (that is, the method to which the taxpayer is changing) had been in effect during all prior years. In revaluing inventory costs under this procedure, all of the capitalization provisions of section 263A and the regulations thereunder apply to all inventory costs accumulated in prior years. The necessity to revalue beginning inventory as if these capitalization rules had been in effect for all prior years includes, for example, the revaluation of costs or layers incurred in taxable years preceding the transition period to the full absorption method of inventory costing as described in § 1.471-11(e), regardless of whether a taxpayer employed a cut-off method under those regulations. The difference between the inventory as originally valued using the former method (that is, the method from which the taxpayer is changing) and the inventory as revalued using the new method is equal to the amount of the adjustment required under section 481(a).
(ii)
Methods to revalue inventory.
There are three methods available to revalue inventory. The first method, the facts and circumstances revaluation method, may be used by all taxpayers. Under this method, a taxpayer determines the direct and indirect costs that must be assigned to each item of inventory based on all the facts and circumstances. This method is described in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. The second method, the weighted average method, is available only in certain situations to taxpayers using the FIFO inventory method or the specific goods LIFO inventory method. This method is described in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section. The third method, the 3-year average method, is available to all taxpayers using the dollar-value LIFO inventory method of accounting. This method is described in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section. The weighted average method and the 3-year average method revalue inventory through processes of estimation and extrapolation, rather than based on the facts and circumstances of a particular year's data. All three methods are available regardless of whether the taxpayer elects to use a simplified method to capitalize costs under section 263A.
(iii)
Facts and circumstances revaluation method
—(A)
In general.
Under the facts and circumstances revaluation method, a taxpayer generally is required to revalue inventories by applying the capitalization rules of section
263A and the regulations thereunder to the production and resale activities of the taxpayer, with the same degree of specificity as required of inventory manufacturers under the law immediately prior to the effective date of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-514, 100 Stat. 2085, 1986-3 C.B. (Vol. 1)). Thus, for example, with respect to any prior year that is relevant in determining the total amount of the revalued balance as of the beginning of the year of change, the taxpayer must analyze the production and resale data for that particular year and apply the rules and principles of section 263A and the regulations thereunder to determine the appropriate revalued inventory costs. However, under the facts and circumstances revaluation method, a taxpayer may utilize reasonable estimates and procedures in valuing inventory costs if—
(
1
) The taxpayer lacks, and is not able to reconstruct from its books and records, actual financial and accounting data which is required to apply the capitalization rules of section 263A and the regulations thereunder to the relevant facts and circumstances surrounding a particular item of inventory or cost; and
(
2
) The total amounts of costs for which reasonable estimates and procedures are employed are not significant in comparison to the total restated value (including costs previously capitalized under the taxpayer's former method) of the items or costs for the period in question.
(B)
Exception.
A taxpayer that is not able to comply with the requirement of paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A)(2) of this section because of the existence of a significant amount of costs that would require the use of estimates and procedures must revalue its inventories under the procedures provided in paragraph (c)(2) (iv) or (v) of this section.
(C)
Estimates and procedures allowed.
The estimates and procedures of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) include—
(
1
) The use of available information from more recent years to estimate the amount and nature of inventory costs applicable to earlier years; and
(
2
) The use of available information with respect to comparable items of inventory produced or acquired during the same year in order to estimate the costs associated with other items of inventory.
(D)
Use by dollar-value LIFO taxpayers.
Generally, a dollar-value LIFO taxpayer must recompute its LIFO inventory for each taxable year that the LIFO inventory method was used.
(E)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) are illustrated by the following three examples. The principles set forth in these examples are applicable both to production and resale activities and the year of change in all three examples is 1997. The examples read as follows:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer X lacks information for the years 1993 and earlier, regarding the amount of costs incurred in transporting finished goods from X's factory to X's warehouse and in storing those goods at the warehouse until their sale to customers. X determines that, for 1994 and subsequent years, these transportation and storage costs constitute 4 percent of the total costs of comparable goods under X's method of accounting for such years. Under this paragraph (c)(2)(iii), X may assume that transportation and storage costs for the years 1993 and earlier constitute 4 percent of the total costs of such goods.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 1,
except that for the year 1993 and earlier, X used a different method of accounting for inventory costs whereunder significantly fewer costs were capitalized than amounts capitalized in later years. Thus, the application of transportation and storage based on a percentage of costs for 1994 and later years would not constitute a reasonable estimate for use in earlier years. X may use the information from 1994 and later years, if appropriate adjustments are made to reflect the differences in inventory costs for the applicable years, including, for example—
(i) Increasing the percentage of costs that are intended to represent transportation and storage costs to reflect the aggregate differences in capitalized amounts under the two methods of accounting; or
(ii) Taking the absolute dollar amount of transportation and storage costs for comparable goods in inventory and applying that amount (adjusted for changes in general price levels, where appropriate) to goods associated with 1993 and prior periods.

# Example 3.
Taxpayer Z lacks information for certain years with respect to factory administrative costs, subject to capitalization
under section 263A and the regulations thereunder, incurred in the production of inventory in factory A. Z does have sufficient information to determine factory administrative costs with respect to production of inventory in factory B, wherein inventory items were produced during the same years as factory A. Z may use the information from factory B to determine the appropriate amount of factory administrative costs to capitalize as inventory costs for comparable items produced in factory A during the same years.
(iv)
Weighted average method
—(A)
In general.
A taxpayer using the FIFO method or the specific goods LIFO method of accounting for inventories may use the weighted average method as provided in this paragraph (c)(2)(iv) to estimate the change in the amount of costs that must be allocated to inventories for prior years. The weighted average method under this paragraph (c)(2)(iv) is only available to a taxpayer that lacks sufficient data to revalue its inventory costs under the facts and circumstances revaluation method provided for in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. Moreover, a taxpayer that qualifies for the use of the weighted average method under this paragraph (c)(2)(iv) must utilize such method only with respect to items or costs for which it lacks sufficient information to revalue under the facts and circumstances revaluation method. Particular items or costs must be revalued under the facts and circumstances revaluation method if sufficient information exists to make such a revaluation. If a taxpayer lacks sufficient information to otherwise apply the weighted average method under this paragraph (c)(2)(iv) (for example, the taxpayer is unable to revalue the costs of any of its items in inventory due to a lack of information), then the taxpayer must use reasonable estimates and procedures, as described in the facts and circumstances revaluation method, to whatever extent is necessary to allow the taxpayer to apply the weighted average method.
(B)
Weighted average method for FIFO taxpayers
—(
1
)
In general.
This paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) sets forth the mechanics of the weighted average method as applicable to FIFO taxpayers. Under the weighted average method, an item in ending inventory for which sufficient data is not available for revaluation under section 263A and the regulations thereunder must be revalued by using the weighted average percentage increase or decrease with respect to such item for the earliest subsequent taxable year for which sufficient data is available. With respect to an item for which no subsequent data exists, such item must be revalued by using the weighted average percentage increase or decrease with respect to all reasonably comparable items in the taxpayer's inventory for the same year or the earliest subsequent taxable year for which sufficient data is available.
(
2
)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) are illustrated by the following example. The principles set forth in this example are applicable both to production and resale activities and the year of change in the example is 1997. The example reads as follows:

# Example.
Taxpayer A manufactures bolts and uses the FIFO method to identify inventories. Under A's former method, A did not capitalize all of the costs required to be capitalized under section 263A. A maintains inventories of bolts, two types of which it no longer produces. Bolt A was last produced in 1994. The revaluation of the costs of Bolt A under this section for bolts produced in 1994 results in a 20 percent increase of the costs of Bolt A. A portion of the inventory of Bolt A, however, is attributable to 1993. A does not have sufficient data for revaluation of the 1993 cost for Bolt A. With respect to Bolt A, A may apply the 20 percent increase determined for 1994 to the 1993 production as an acceptable estimate. Bolt B was last produced in 1992 and no data exists that would allow revaluation of the inventory cost of Bolt B. The inventories of all other bolts for which information is available are attributable to 1994 and 1995. Revaluation of the costs of these other bolts using available data results in an average increase in inventory costs of 15 percent for 1994 production. With respect to Bolt B, the overall 15 percent increase for A's inventory for 1994 may be used in revaluing the cost of Bolt B.
(C)
Weighted average method for specific goods LIFO taxpayers
—(
1
)
In general.
This paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(C) sets forth the mechanics of the weighted average method as applicable to LIFO taxpayers using the specific goods method of valuing inventories. Under the weighted average method, the inventory layers with respect to an item
for which data is available are revalued under this section and the increase or decrease in amount for each layer is expressed as a percentage of change from the cost in the layer as originally valued. A weighted average of the percentage of change for all layers for each type of good is computed and applied to all earlier layers for each type of good that lack sufficient data to allow for revaluation. In the case of earlier layers for which sufficient data exists, such layers are to be revalued using actual data. In cases where sufficient data is not available to make a weighted average estimate with respect to a particular item of inventory, a weighted average increase or decrease is to be determined using all other inventory items revalued by the taxpayer in the same specific goods grouping. This percentage increase or decrease is then used to revalue the cost of the item for which data is lacking. If the taxpayer lacks sufficient data to revalue any of the inventory items contained in a specific goods grouping, then the weighted average increase or decrease of substantially similar items (as determined by principles similar to the rules applicable to dollar-value LIFO taxpayers in § 1.472-8(b)(3)) must be applied in the revaluation of the items in such grouping. If insufficient data exists with respect to all the items in a specific goods grouping and to all items that are substantially similar (or such items do not exist), then the weighted average for all revalued items in the taxpayer's inventory must be applied in revaluing items for which data is lacking.
(
2
)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(C) are illustrated by the following example. The principles set forth in this example are applicable both to production and resale activities and the year of change in the example is 1997. The example reads as follows:

# Example.
(i) Taxpayer M is a manufacturer that produces two different parts. Under M's former method, M did not capitalize all of the costs required to be capitalized under section 263A. Work-in-process inventory is recorded in terms of equivalent units of finished goods. M's records show the following at the end of 1996 under the specific goods LIFO inventory method:
LIFO Product and layer
Number
Cost
Carrying
values
Product #1:
1993
150
$5.00
$750
1994
100
6.00
600
1995
100
6.50
650
1996
50
7.00
350
$2,350
Product #2:
1993
200
$4.00
$800
1994
200
4.50
900
1995
100
5.00
500
1996
100
6.00
600
2,800
Total carrying value of Products #1 and #2 under M's former method
5,150
(ii) M has sufficient data to revalue the unit costs of Product #1 using its new method for 1994, 1995 and 1996. These costs are: $7.00 in 1994, $7.75 in 1995, and $9.00 in 1996. This data for Product #1 results in a weighted average percentage change of 20.31 percent ((100 × ($7.00−$6.00)) + (100 × ($7.75−$6.50)) + (50 × ($9.00−$7.00)) divided by (100 × $6.00) + (100 × $6.50) + (50 × $7.00)]. M has sufficient data to revalue the unit costs of Product #2 only in 1995 and 1996. These costs are: $6.00 in 1995 and $7.00 in 1996. This data for Product #2 results in a weighted average percentage change of 18.18 percent [(100 × ($6.00−$5.00)) + (100 × ($7.00−$6.00)) divided by (100 × $5.00) + (100 × $6.00)].
(iii) M can estimate its revalued costs for Product #1 for 1993 by applying the weighted average increase computed for Product #1 (20.31 percent) to the unit costs originally carried on M's records for 1993 under M's former method. The estimated revalued unit cost of Product #1 would be $6.02 ($5.00 × 1.2031). M estimates its revalued costs for
Product #2 for 1993 and 1994 in a similar fashion. M applies the weighted average increase determined for Product #2 (18.18 percent) to the unit costs of $4.00 and $4.50 for 1993 and 1994 respectively. The revalued unit costs of Product #2 are $4.73 for 1993 ($4.00 × 1.1818) and $5.32 for 1994 ($4.50 × 1.1818).
(iv) M's inventory would be revalued as follows:
LIFO product and layer
Number
Cost
Carrying
values
Product #1:
1993
150
$6.02
$903
1994
100
7.00
700
1995
100
7.75
775
1996
50
9.00
450
$2,828
Product #2:
1993
200
4.73
946
1994
200
5.32
1,064
1995
100
6.00
600
1996
100
7.00
700
3,310
Total value of Products #1 and #2 as revalued under M's new method
6,138
Total amount of adjustment required under section 481(a) [$6,138−$5,150]
988
(D)
Adjustments to inventory costs from prior years.
For special rules applicable when a revaluation using the weighted average method includes costs not incurred in prior years, see paragraph (c)(2)(v)(E) of this section.
(v)
3-year average method
—(A)
In general.
A taxpayer using the dollar-value LIFO method of accounting for inventories may revalue all existing LIFO layers of a trade or business based on the 3-year average method as provided in this paragraph (c)(2)(v). The 3-year average method is based on the average percentage change (the 3-year revaluation factor) in the current costs of inventory for each LIFO pool based on the three most recent taxable years for which the taxpayer has sufficient information (typically, the three most recent taxable years of such trade or business). The 3-year revaluation factor is applied to all layers for each pool in beginning inventory in the year of change. The 3-year average method is available to any dollar-value taxpayer that complies with the requirements of this paragraph (c)(2)(v) regardless of whether such taxpayer lacks sufficient data to revalue its inventory costs under the facts and circumstances revaluation method prescribed in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section. The 3-year average method must be applied with respect to all inventory in a taxpayer's trade or business. A taxpayer is not permitted to apply the method for the revaluation of some, but not all, inventory costs on the basis of pools, business units, or other measures of inventory amounts that do not constitute a separate trade or business. Generally, a taxpayer revaluing its inventory using the 3-year average method must establish a new base year. See, paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A)(
2
)(
i
) of this section. However, a dollar-value LIFO taxpayer using the 3-year average method and either the simplified production method or the simplified resale method to revalue its inventory is permitted, but not required, to establish a new base year. See, paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A)(
2
)(
ii
) of this section. If a taxpayer lacks sufficient information to otherwise apply the 3-year average method under this paragraph (c)(2)(v) (for example, the taxpayer is unable to revalue the costs of any of its LIFO pools for three years due to a lack of information), then the taxpayer must use reasonable estimates and procedures, as described in the facts and circumstances revaluation method under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, to whatever extent is necessary to allow the taxpayer to apply the 3-year average method.
(B)
Consecutive year requirement.
Under the 3-year average method, if sufficient data is available to calculate the revaluation factor for more than three years, the taxpayer may use data from such additional years in determining the average percentage increase or decrease only if the additional years are consecutive to and prior to the year of change. The requirement under the preceding sentence to use consecutive years is applicable under this method regardless of whether any inventory costs in beginning inventory as of the year of change are viewed as incurred in, or attributable to, those consecutive years under the LIFO inventory method. Thus, the requirement to use data from consecutive years may result in using information from a year in which no LIFO increment occurred. For example, if a taxpayer is changing its method of accounting in 1997 and has sufficient data to revalue its inventory for the years 1991 through 1996, the taxpayer may calculate the revaluation factor using all six years. If, however, the taxpayer has sufficient data to revalue its inventory for the years 1990 through 1992, and 1994 through 1996, only the three years consecutive to the year of change, that is, 1994 through 1996, may be used in determining the revaluation factor. Similarly, for example, a taxpayer with LIFO increments in 1995, 1993, and 1992 may not calculate the revaluation factor based on the data from those years alone, but instead must use the data from consecutive years for which the taxpayer has information.
(C)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (c)(2)(v) are illustrated by the following example. The principles set forth in this example are applicable both to production and resale activities and the year of change in the example is 1997. The example reads as follows:

# Example.
(i) Taxpayer G, a calendar year taxpayer, is a reseller that is required to change its method of accounting under section 263A. G will not use either the simplified production method or the simplified resale method. G adopted the dollar-value LIFO inventory method in 1991, using a single pool and the double extension method. G's beginning LIFO inventory as of January 1, 1997, computed using its former method, for the year of change is as follows:
Base year costs
Index
LIFO carrying value
Base layer
$14,000
1.00
$14,000
1991 layer
4,000
1.20
4,800
1992 layer
5,000
1.30
6,500
1993 layer
2,000
1.35
2,700
1994 layer
0
1.40
0
1995 layer
4,000
1.50
6,000
1996 layer
5,000
1.60
8,000
Total
34,000
42,000
(ii) G is able to recompute total inventoriable costs incurred under its new method for the three preceding taxable years as follows:
Current cost as recorded (former
method)
Current cost as adjusted (new method)
Percentage change
1994
$35,000
$45,150
.29
1995
43,500
54,375
.25
1996
54,400
70,720
.30
Total
132,900
170,245
.28
(iii) Applying the average revaluation factor of .28 to each layer, G's inventory is restated as follows:
Restated base year costs
Index
Restated LIFO carrying value
Base layer
$17,920
1.00
$17,920
1991 layer
5,120
1.20
6,144
1992 layer
6,400
1.30
8,320
1993 layer
2,560
1.35
3,456
1994 layer
0
1.40
0
1995 layer
5,120
1.50
7,680
1996 layer
6,400
1.60
10,240
Total
43,520
53,760
(iv) The adjustment required by section 481(a) is $11,760. This amount may be computed by multiplying the average percentage of .28 by the LIFO carrying value of G's inventory valued using its former method ($42,000). Alternatively, the adjustment required by section 481(a) may be computed by the difference between—
(A) The revalued costs of the taxpayer's inventory under its new method ($53,760), and
(B) The costs of the taxpayer's inventory using its former method ($42,000).
(v) In addition, the inventory as of the first day of the year of change (January 1, 1997) becomes the new base year cost for purposes of determining the LIFO index in future years. See, paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A)(
2
)(
i
) and (b)(2)(iii)(B) of this section. This requires that layers in years prior to the base year be restated in terms of the new base year index. The current year cost of G's inventory, as adjusted, is $70,720. Such cost must be apportioned to each layer in proportion to the restated base year cost of that layer to total restated base year costs ($43,520), as follows:
Restated base year costs
Restated index
Restated LIFO carrying value
Old base layer
$29,120
.615
$17,920
1991 layer
8,320
.738
6,144
1992 layer
10,400
.80
8,320
1993 layer
4,160
.831
3,456
1994 layer
0
0
1995 layer
8,320
.923
7,680
1996 layer
10,400
.985
10,240
Total
70,720
53,760
(D)
Short taxable years.
A short taxable year is treated as a full 12 months.
(E)
Adjustments to inventory costs from prior years
—(
1
)
General rule.
(
i
) The use of the revaluation factor, based on current costs, to estimate the revaluation of prior inventory layers under the 3-year average method, as described in paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section, may result in an allocation of costs that include amounts attributable to costs not incurred during the year in which the layer arose. To the extent a taxpayer can demonstrate that costs that contributed to the determination of the revaluation factor could not have affected a prior year, the revaluation factor as applied to that year may be adjusted under the restatement adjustment procedure, as described in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) of this section. The determination that a cost could not have affected a prior year must be made by a taxpayer only upon showing that the type of cost incurred during the years used to calculate the revaluation factor (revaluation years) was not present during such prior year. An item of cost will not be eligible for the restatement adjustment procedure simply because the cost varies in amount from year to year or the same type of cost is described or referred to by a different name from year to year. Thus, the restatement adjustment procedure allowed under paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) of this section is not available in a prior year with respect to a particular cost if the same type of cost was incurred both in the revaluation years and in such prior year, although the amount of such cost and the name or description thereof may vary.
(
ii
) The provisions of this paragraph (c)(2)(v)(E) are also applicable to taxpayers using the weighted average
method in revaluing inventories under paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section. Thus, to the extent a taxpayer can demonstrate that costs that contributed to the determination of the restatement of a particular year or item could not have affected a prior year or item, the taxpayer may adjust the revaluation of that prior year or item accordingly under the weighted average method. All the requirements and definitions, however, applicable to the restatement adjustment procedure under this paragraph (c)(2)(v)(E) fully apply to a taxpayer using the weighted average method to revalue inventories.
(
2
)
Examples of costs eligible for restatement adjustment procedure.
The provisions of this paragraph (c)(2)(v)(E) are illustrated by the following four examples. The principles set forth in these examples are applicable both to production and resale activities and the year of change in the four examples is 1997. The examples read as follows:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer A is a reseller that introduced a defined benefit pension plan in 1994, and made the plan available to personnel whose labor costs were (directly or indirectly) properly allocable to resale activities. A determines the revaluation factor based on data available for the years 1994 through 1996, for which the pension plan was in existence. Based on these facts, the costs of the pension plan in the revaluation years are eligible for the restatement adjustment procedure for years prior to 1994.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 1,
except that a defined contribution plan was available, during prior years, to personnel whose labor costs were properly allocable to resale activities. The defined contribution plan was terminated before the introduction of the defined benefit plan in 1994. Based on these facts, the costs of the defined benefit pension plan in the revaluation years are not eligible for the restatement adjustment procedure with respect to years for which the defined contribution plan existed.

# Example 3.
Taxpayer C is a manufacturer that established a security department in 1995 to patrol and safeguard its production and warehouse areas used in C's trade or business. Prior to 1995, C had not been required to utilize security personnel in its trade or business; C established the security department in 1995 in response to increasing vandalism and theft at its plant locations. Based on these facts, the costs of the security department are eligible for the restatement adjustment procedure for years prior to 1995.

# Example 4.
Taxpayer D is a reseller that established a payroll department in 1995 to process the company's weekly payroll. In the years 1991 through 1994, D engaged the services of an outside vendor to process the company's payroll. Prior to 1991, D's payroll processing was done by D's accounting department, which was responsible for payroll processing as well as for other accounting functions. Based on these facts, the costs of the payroll department are not eligible for the restatement adjustment procedure. D was incurring the same type of costs in earlier years as D was incurring in the payroll department in 1995 and subsequent years, although these costs were designated by a different name or description.
(F)
Restatement adjustment procedure
—(
1
)
In general.
(
i
) This paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) provides a restatement adjustment procedure whereunder a taxpayer may adjust the restatement of inventory costs in prior taxable years in order to produce a different restated value than the value that would otherwise occur through application of the revaluation factor to such prior taxable years.
(
ii
) Under the restatement adjustment procedure as applied to a particular prior year, a taxpayer must determine the particular items of cost that are eligible for the restatement adjustment with respect to such prior year. The taxpayer must then recompute, using reasonable estimates and procedures, the total inventoriable costs that would have been incurred for each revaluation year under the taxpayer's former method and the taxpayer's new method by making appropriate adjustments in the data for such revaluation year to reflect the particular costs eligible for adjustment.
(
iii
) The taxpayer must then compute the total percentage change with respect to each revaluation year, using the revised estimates of total inventoriable costs for such year as described in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F)(
1
)(
ii
) of this section. The percentage change must be determined by calculating the ratio of the revised total of the inventoriable costs for such revaluation year under the taxpayer's new method to the revised total of the inventoriable costs for such revaluation year under the taxpayer's former method.
(
iv
) An average of the resulting percentage change for all revaluation
years is then calculated, and the resulting average is applied to the prior year in issue.
(
2
)
Examples of restatement adjustment procedure.
The provisions of this paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) are illustrated by the following two examples. The principles set forth in these examples are applicable both to production and resale activities and the year of change in the two examples is 1997. The examples read as follows:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer A is a reseller that is eligible to make a restatement adjustment by reason of the costs of a defined benefit pension plan that was introduced in 1994, during the revaluation period. The revaluation factor, before adjustment of data to reflect the pension costs, is as provided in the example in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(C) of this section. Thus, for example, with respect to the year 1994, the total inventoriable costs under A's former method is $35,000, the total inventoriable costs under A's new method is $45,150, and the percentage change is .29. Under the method of accounting used by A during 1994 (the former method), none of the pension costs were included as inventoriable costs. Thus, under the restatement adjustment procedure, the total inventoriable cost under A's former method would remain at $35,000 if the pension plan had not been in existence. Similarly, A determines that the total inventoriable costs for 1994 under A's new method, if the pension plan had not been in existence, would have been $42,000. The restatement adjustment for 1994 determined under this paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) would then be equal to .20 ([$42,000-$35,000]/$35,000). A would make similar calculations with respect to 1995 and 1996. The average of such amounts for each of the three years in the revaluation period would then be determined as in the example in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(C) of this section. Such average would be used to revalue cost layers for years for which the pension plan was not in existence. Such revalued layers would then be viewed as restated in compliance with the requirements of this paragraph. With respect to cost layers incurred during years for which the pension plan was in existence, no adjustment of the revaluation factor would occur.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 1,
except that a portion of the pension costs were included as inventoriable costs under the method used by A during 1994 (the former method). Under the restatement adjustment procedure, A determines that the total inventoriable costs for 1994 under the former method, if the pension plan had not been in existence, would have been $34,000. Similarly, A determines that the total inventoriable costs for 1994 under A's new method, if the pension plan had not been in existence, would have been $42,000. The restatement adjustment for 1994 determined under this paragraph (c)(2)(v)(F) would then be equal to .24 ([$42,000-$34,000]/$34,000). A would make similar calculations with respect to 1995 and 1996. The average of such amounts for each of the three years in the revaluation period would then be determined as in the example in paragraph (c)(2)(v)(C) of this section. Such average would be used to revalue cost layers for years for which the pension plan was not in existence.
(3)
Intercompany items
—(i)
Revaluing intercompany transactions.
Pursuant to any change in method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A, taxpayers are required to revalue the amount of any intercompany item resulting from the sale or exchange of inventory property in an intercompany transaction to an amount equal to the intercompany item that would have resulted, had the cost of goods sold for that inventory property been determined under the taxpayer's new method. The requirement of the preceding sentence applies with respect to both inventory produced by a taxpayer and inventory acquired by the taxpayer for resale. In addition, the requirements of this paragraph (c)(3) apply only to any intercompany item of the taxpayer as of the beginning of the year of change in method of accounting. See § 1.1502-13(b)(2)(ii). A taxpayer must revalue the amount of any intercompany item only if the inventory property sold in the intercompany transaction is held as inventory by a buying member as of the date the taxpayer changes its method of accounting under section 263A. Corresponding changes to the adjustment required under section 481(a) must be made with respect to any adjustment of the intercompany item required under this paragraph (c)(3). Moreover, the requirements of this paragraph (c)(3) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer has any items in beginning inventory as of the year of change in method of accounting. See § 1.1502-13 for the definition of intercompany transaction.
(ii)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (c)(3) are illustrated by the following example. The principles set forth in this example are applicable both to production and resale activities and the year of change in the example is 1997. The example reads as follows:

# Example.
(i) Assume that S, a member of a consolidated group filing its federal income tax return on a calendar year, manufactures and sells inventory property to B, a member of the same consolidated group, in 1996. The sale between S and B is an intercompany transaction as defined under § 1.1502-13(b)(1). The gain from the intercompany transaction is an intercompany item to S under § 1.1502-13(b)(2). As of the beginning of the year of change in method of accounting (January 1, 1997), the inventory property is still held by B based on the particular inventory method of accounting used by B for federal income tax purposes (for example, the LIFO or FIFO inventory method). The property was sold by S to B in 1996 for $150; the cost of goods sold with respect to the property under the method in effect at the time the inventory was produced was $100, resulting in an intercompany item of $50 to S under § 1.1502-13. As of January 1, 1997, S still has an intercompany item of $50.
(ii) S is required to revalue the amount of its intercompany item to an amount equal to what the intercompany item would have been had the cost of goods sold for that inventory property been determined under S's new method. Assume that the cost of the inventory under this method would have been $110, had the method applied to S's manufacture of the property in 1996. Thus, S is required to revalue the amount of its intercompany item to $40 (that is, $150 less $110), necessitating a negative adjustment to the intercompany item of $10. Moreover, S is required to increase its adjustment under section 481(a) by $10 in order to prevent the omission of such amount by virtue of the decrease in the intercompany item.
(iii)
Availability of revaluation methods.
In revaluing the amount of any intercompany item resulting from the sale or exchange of inventory property in an intercompany transaction to an amount equal to the intercompany item that would have resulted had the cost of goods sold for that inventory property been determined under the taxpayer's new method, a taxpayer may use the other methods and procedures otherwise properly available to that particular taxpayer in revaluing inventory under section 263A and the regulations thereunder, including, if appropriate, the various simplified methods provided in section 263A and the regulations thereunder and the various procedures described in this paragraph (c).
(4)
Anti-abuse rule
—(i)
In general.
Section 263A(i)(1) provides that the Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of section 263A, including regulations to prevent the use of related parties, pass-thru entities, or intermediaries to avoid the application of section 263A and the regulations thereunder. One way in which the application of section 263A and the regulations thereunder would be otherwise avoided is through the use of entities described in the preceding sentence in such a manner as to effectively avoid the necessity to restate beginning inventory balances under the change in method of accounting required or permitted under section 263A and the regulations thereunder.
(ii)
Deemed avoidance of this section
—(A)
Scope.
For purposes of this paragraph (c), the avoidance of the application of section 263A and the regulations thereunder will be deemed to occur if a taxpayer using the LIFO method of accounting for inventories, transfers inventory property to a related corporation in a transaction described in section 351, and such transfer occurs:
(
1
) On or before the beginning of the transferor's taxable year beginning in 1987; and
(
2
) After September 18, 1986.
(B)
General rule.
Any transaction described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section will be treated in the following manner:
(
1
) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary (for example, section 381), the transferee corporation is required to revalue the inventories acquired from the transferor under the provisions of this paragraph (c) relating to the change in method of accounting and the adjustment required by section 481(a), as if the inventories had never been transferred and were still in the hands of the transferor; and
(
2
) Absent an election as described in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, the transferee must account for the inventories acquired from the transferor by treating such inventories as if they were contained in the transferee's LIFO layer(s).
(iii)
Election to use transferor's LIFO layers.
If a transferee described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section so elects, the transferee may account for the inventories acquired from the transferor by allocating such inventories to LIFO
layers corresponding to the layers to which such properties were properly allocated by the transferor, prior to their transfer. The transferee must account for such inventories for all subsequent periods with reference to such layers to which the LIFO costs were allocated. Any such election is to be made on a statement attached to the timely filed federal income tax return of the transferee for the first taxable year for which section 263A and the regulations thereunder applies to the transferee.
(iv)
Tax avoidance intent not required.
The provisions of paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section will apply to any transaction described therein, without regard to whether such transaction was consummated with an intention to avoid federal income taxes.
(v)
Related corporation.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(4), a taxpayer is related to a corporation if—
(A) the relationship between such persons is described in section 267(b)(1), or
(B) such persons are engaged in trades or businesses under common control (within the meaning of paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 52).
(d)
Non-inventory property
—(1)
Need for adjustments.
A taxpayer that changes its method of accounting for costs subject to section 263A with respect to non-inventory property must revalue the non-inventory property on hand at the beginning of the year of change as set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and compute an adjustment under section 481(a). The adjustment under section 481(a) will equal the difference between the adjusted basis of the property as revalued using the taxpayer's new method and the adjusted basis of the property as originally valued using the taxpayer's former method.
(2)
Revaluing property.
A taxpayer must revalue its non-inventory property as of the beginning of the year of change in method of accounting. The facts and circumstances revaluation method of paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section must be used to revalue this property. In revaluing non-inventory property, however, the only additional section 263A costs that must be taken into account are those additional section 263A costs incurred after the later of December 31, 1986, or the date the taxpayer first becomes subject to section 263A, in taxable years ending after that date. See § 1.263A-1(d)(3) for the definition of additional section 263A costs.
[T.D. 8728, 62 FR 42054, Aug. 5, 1997, as amended by T.D. 9131, 69 FR 33572, June 16, 2004; T.D. 9843, 83 FR 58498, Nov. 20, 2018; T.D. 9942, 86 FR 268, Jan. 5, 2021]
§ 1.263A-8
Requirement to capitalize interest.
(a)
In general
—(1)
General rule.
Capitalization of interest under the avoided cost method described in § 1.263A-9 is required with respect to the production of designated property described in paragraph (b) of this section. However, a taxpayer, other than a tax shelter prohibited from using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting under section 448(a)(3), that meets the gross receipts test of section 448(c) for the taxable year is not required to capitalize costs, including interest, under section 263A. See § 1.263A-1(j).
(2)
Treatment of interest required to be capitalized.
In general, interest that is capitalized under this section is treated as a cost of the designated property and is recovered in accordance with § 1.263A-1(c)(4). Interest capitalized by reason of assets used to produce designated property (within the meaning of § 1.263A-11(d)) is added to the basis of the designated property rather than the bases of the assets used to produce the designated property. Interest capitalized with respect to designated property that includes both components subject to an allowance for depreciation or depletion and components not subject to an allowance for depreciation or depletion is ratably allocated among, and is treated as a cost of, components that are subject to an allowance for depreciation or depletion.
(3)
Methods of accounting under section 263A(f).
Except as otherwise provided, methods of accounting and other computations under §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15 are applied on a taxpayer, as opposed to a separate and distinct trade or business, basis.
(4)
Special definitions
—(i)
Related person.
Except as otherwise provided, for purposes of §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-
15, a person is related to a taxpayer if their relationship is described in section 267(b) or 707(b).
(ii)
Placed in service.
For purposes of §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15,
placed in service
has the same meaning as set forth in § 1.46-3(d).
(b)
Designated property
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section,
designated property
means any property that is produced and that is either:
(i) Real property; or
(ii) Tangible personal property (as defined in § 1.263A-2(a)(2)) which meets any of the following criteria:
(A) Property with a class life of 20 years or more under section 168 (long-lived property), but only if the property is not property described in section 1221(l) in the hands of the taxpayer or a related person,
(B) Property with an estimated production period (as defined in § 1.263A-12) exceeding 2 years (2-year property), or
(C) Property with an estimated production period exceeding 1 year and an estimated cost of production exceeding $1,000,000 (1-year property).
(2)
Special rules
—(i)
Application of thresholds.
The thresholds described in paragraphs (b)(l)(ii)(A), (B), and (C) of this section are applied separately for each unit of property (as defined in § 1.263A-10).
(ii)
Relevant activities and costs.
For purposes of determining whether property is designated property, all activities and costs are taken into account if they are performed or incurred by, or for, the taxpayer or any related persons and they directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the production of the property.
(iii)
Production period and cost of production.
For purposes of applying the classification thresholds under paragraphs (b)(l)(ii) (B) and (C) of this section to a unit of property, the taxpayer is required, at the beginning of the production period, to reasonably estimate the production period and the total cost of production for the unit of property. The taxpayer must maintain contemporaneous written records supporting the estimates and classification. If the estimates are reasonable based on the facts in existence at the beginning of the production period, the taxpayer's classification of the property is not modified in subsequent periods, even if the actual length of the production period or the actual cost of production differs from the estimates. To be considered reasonable, estimates of the production period and the total cost of production must include anticipated expense and time for delay, rework, change orders, and technological, design or other problems. To the extent that several distinct activities related to the production of the property are expected to occur simultaneously, the period during which these distinct activities occur is not counted more than once. The bases of assets used to produce a unit of property (within the meaning of § 1.263A-11(d)) and any interest that would be required to be capitalized if a unit of property were designated property are disregarded in making estimates of the total cost of production for purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(iii).
(3)
Excluded property.
Designated property does not include:
(i) Timber and evergreen trees that are more than 6 years old when severed from the roots, or
(ii) Property produced by the taxpayer for use by the taxpayer other than in a trade or business or an activity conducted for profit.
(4)
De minimis rule
—(i)
In general.
Designated property does not include property for which—
(A) The production period does not exceed 90 days; and
(B) The total production expenditures do not exceed $1,000,000 divided by the number of days in the production period.
(ii)
Determination of total production expenditures.
For purposes of determining whether the condition of paragraph (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section is met with respect to property, the cost of land, the adjusted basis of property used to produce property, and interest that would be capitalized with respect to property if it were designated property are excluded from total production expenditures.
(c)
Definition of real property
—(1)
In general.
Real property includes land, unsevered natural products of land, buildings, and inherently permanent
structures. Any interest in real property of a type described in this paragraph (c), including fee ownership, co-ownership, a leasehold, an option, or a similar interest is real property under this section. Real property includes the structural components of both buildings and inherently permanent structures, such as walls, partitions, doors, wiring, plumbing, central air conditioning and heating systems, pipes and ducts, elevators and escalators, and other similar property. Tenant improvements to a building that are inherently permanent or otherwise classified as real property within the meaning of this paragraph (c)(1) are real property under this section. However, property produced for sale that is not real property in the hands of the taxpayer or a related person, but that may be incorporated into real property by an unrelated buyer, is not treated as real property by the producing taxpayer (e.g., bricks, nails, paint, and windowpanes).
(2)
Unsevered natural products of land.
Unsevered natural products of land include growing crops and plants, mines, wells, and other natural deposits. Growing crops and plants, however, are real property only if the preproductive period of the crop or plant exceeds 2 years.
(3)
Inherently permanent structures.
Inherently permanent structures include property that is affixed to real property and that will ordinarily remain affixed for an indefinite period of time, such as swimming pools, roads, bridges, tunnels, paved parking areas and other pavements, special foundations, wharves and docks, fences, inherently permanent advertising displays, inherently permanent outdoor lighting facilities, railroad tracks and signals, telephone poles, power generation and transmission facilities, permanently installed telecommunications cables, broadcasting towers, oil and gas pipelines, derricks and storage equipment, grain storage bins and silos. For purposes of this section, affixation to real property may be accomplished by weight alone. Property may constitute an inherently permanent structure even though it is not classified as a building for purposes of former section 48(a)(1)(B) and § 1.48-1. Any property not othewise described in this paragraph (c)(3) that constitutes other tangible property under the principles of former section 48(a)(1)(B) and § 1.48-1(d) is treated for the purposes of this section as an inherently permanent structure.
(4)
Machinery
—(i)
Treatment.
A structure that is property in the nature of machinery or is essentially an item of machinery or equipment is not an inherently permanent structure and is not real property. In the case, however, of a building or inherently permanent structure that includes property in the nature of machinery as a structural component, the property in the nature of machinery is real property.
(ii)
Certain factors not determinative.
A structure may be an inherently permanent structure, and not property in the nature of machinery or essentially an item of machinery, even if the structure is necessary to operate or use, supports, or is otherwise associated with, machinery.
(d)
Production
—(1)
Definition of produce. Produce
is defined as provided in section 263A(g) and § 1.263A-2(a)(1)(i).
(2)
Property produced under a contract
—(i)
Customer.
A taxpayer is treated as producing any property that is produced for the taxpayer (the customer) by another party (the contractor) under a contract with the taxpayer or an intermediary. Property produced under a contract is designated property to the customer if it is real property or tangible personal property that satisfies the classification thresholds described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. If property produced under a contract will become part of a unit of designated property produced by the customer in the customer's hands, the property produced under the contract is designated property to the customer.
(ii)
Contractor.
Property produced under a contract is designated property to the contractor if it is real property, 2-year property, or 1-year property and the property produced under the contract is not excluded by reason of paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section.
(iii)
Definition of a contract.
For purposes of this paragraph (d)(2),
contract
has the same meaning as under § 1.263A-2(a)(1)(ii)(B)(
2
).
(iv)
Determination of whether thresholds are satisfied.
In the case of tangible personal property produced under a contract, the customer and the contractor each determine under this paragraph (d)(2), whether the property satisfies the classification thresholds described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. Thus, tangible personal property may be designated property with respect to either, or both, the customer and the contractor. The provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section are modified as set forth in this paragraph (d)(2)(iv) for purposes of determining whether tangible personal property produced under a contract is 2-year property or 1-year property.
(A)
Customer.
In determining a customer's estimated cost of production, the customer takes into account costs and payments that are reasonably expected to be incurred by the customer, but does not take into account costs incurred (or to be incurred) by an unrelated contractor. In determining the customer's estimated length of the production period, the production period is treated as beginning on the earlier of the date the contract is executed or the date that the customer's accumulated production expenditures for the unit are at least 5 percent of the customer's total estimated production expenditures for the unit. The customer, however, may elect to treat the production period as beginning on the date the sum of the accumulated production expenditures of the contractor (or contractors if more than one contractor is producing components for the unit of property) and of the customer are at least 5 percent of the customer's estimated production expenditures for the unit.
(B)
Contractor.
In determining a contractor's estimated cost of production, the contractor takes into account only the costs that are reasonably expected to be incurred by the contractor, without any reduction for payments from the customer. In determining the contractor's estimated length of the production period, the production period is treated as beginning on the date the contractor's accumulated production expenditures (without any reduction for payments from the customer) are at least 5 percent of the contractor's total estimated accumulated production expenditures.
(v)
Exclusion for property subject to long-term contract rules.
Property described in paragraph (b) of this section is designated property with respect to a contractor only if—
(A) The contract is not a long-term contract (within the meaning of section 460(f)); or
(B) The contract is a home construction contract (within the meaning of section 460(e)(6)(A)) with respect to which the requirements of section 460(e)(1)(B) (i) and (ii) are not met.
(3)
Improvements to existing property
—(i)
In general.
Any improvement to property described in § 1.263(a)-1(b) constitutes the production of property. Generally, any improvement to designated property constitutes the production of designated property. An improvement is not treated as the production of designated property, however, if the de minimis exception described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section applies to the improvement. In addition, paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section provides an exception for certain improvements to tangible personal property. Incidental maintenance and repairs are not treated as improvements under this paragraph (d)(3). See § 1.162-4.
(ii)
Real property.
The rehabilitation or preservation of a standing building, the clearing of raw land prior to sale, and the drilling of an oil well are activities constituting improvements to real property and, therefore, the production of designated property. Similarly, the demolition of a standing building generally constitutes an activity that is an improvement to real property and, therefore, the production of designated property. See the exceptions, however, in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section.
(iii)
Tangible personal property.
If the taxpayer has treated a unit of tangible personal property as designated property under this section, an improvement to such property constitutes the production of designated property regardless of the remaining useful life of the improved property (or the improvement) and, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, regardless of the estimated length of the production period or the estimated cost of the
improvement. If the taxpayer has not treated a unit of tangible personal property as designated property under this section, an improvement to such property constitutes the production of designated property only if the improvement independently meets the classification thresholds described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
[T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67198, Dec. 29, 1994; 60 FR 16574, Mar. 31, 1995; T.D. 9942, 86 FR 268, Jan. 5, 2021]
§ 1.263A-9
The avoided cost method.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Description.
The avoided cost method described in this section must be used to calculate the amount of interest required to be capitalized under section 263A(f). Generally, any interest that the taxpayer theoretically would have avoided if accumulated production expenditures (as defined in § 1.263A-11) had been used to repay or reduce the taxpayer's outstanding debt must be capitalized under the avoided cost method. The application of the avoided cost method does not depend on whether the taxpayer actually would have used the amounts expended for production to repay or reduce debt. Instead, the avoided cost method is based on the assumption that debt of the taxpayer would have been repaid or reduced without regard to the taxpayer's subjective intentions or to restrictions (including legal, regulatory, contractual, or other restrictions) against repayment or use of the debt proceeds.
(2)
Overview
—(i)
In general.
For each unit of designated property (within the meaning of § 1.263A-8(b)), the avoided cost method requires the capitalization of—
(A) The traced debt amount under paragraph (b) of this section, and
(B) The excess expenditure amount under paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii)
Rules that apply in determining amounts.
The traced debt and excess expenditure amounts are determined for each taxable year or shorter computation period that includes the production period (as defined in § 1.263A-12) of a unit of designated property. Paragraph (d) of this section provides an election not to trace debt to specific units of designated property. Paragraph (f) of this section provides rules for selecting the computation period, for calculating averages, and for determining measurement dates within the computation period. Special rules are in paragraph (g) of this section.
(3)
Definitions of interest and incurred.
Except as provided in the case of certain expenses that are treated as a substitute for interest under paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) and (g)(2)(iv) of this section,
interest
refers to all amounts that are characterized as interest expense under any provision of the Code, including, for example, sections 482, 483, 1272, 1274, and 7872.
Incurred
refers to the amount of interest that is properly accruable during the period of time in question determined by taking into account the loan agreement and any applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue laws and regulations such as section 163, § 1.446-2, and sections 1271 through 1275.
(4)
Definition of eligible debt.
Except as provided in this paragraph (a)(4),
eligible debt
includes all outstanding debt (as evidenced by a contract, bond, debenture, note, certificate, or other evidence of indebtedness). Eligible debt does not include—
(i) Debt (or the portion thereof) bearing interest that is disallowed under a provision described in § 1.163-8T(m)(7)(ii);
(ii) Debt, such as accounts payable and other accrued items, that bears no interest, except to the extent that such debt is traced debt (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section);
(iii) Debt that is borrowed directly or indirectly from a person related to the taxpayer and that bears a rate of interest that is less than the applicable Federal rate in effect under section 1274(d) on the date of issuance;
(iv) Debt (or the portion thereof) bearing personal interest within the meaning of section 163(h)(2);
(v) Debt (or the portion thereof) bearing qualified residence interest within the meaning of section 163(h)(3);
(vi) Debt incurred by an organization that is exempt from Federal income tax under section 501(a), except to the extent interest on such debt is directly attributable to an unrelated trade or business of the organization within the meaning of section 512;
(vii) Reserves, deferred tax liabilities, and similar items that are not
treated as debt for Federal income tax purposes, regardless of the extent to which the taxpayer's applicable financial accounting or other regulatory reporting principles require or support treating these items as debt;
(viii) Federal, State, and local income tax liabilities, deferred tax liabilities under section 453A, and hypothetical tax liabilities under the look-back method of section 460(b) or similar provisions; and
(ix) A purchase money obligation given by the lessor to the lessee (or a party that is related to the lessee) in a sale and leaseback transaction involving an agreement qualifying as a lease under § 5c.168(f)(8)-1 through § 5c.168(f)(8)-11 of this chapter.
See
§ 5c.168(f)(8)-1(e)
Example (2)
of this chapter.
(b)
Traced debt amount
—(1)
General rule.
Interest must be capitalized with respect to a unit of designated property in an amount (the traced debt amount) equal to the total interest incurred on the traced debt during each measurement period (as defined in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section) that ends on a measurement date described in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section. See the example in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. If any interest incurred on the traced debt is not taken into account for the taxable year that includes the measurement period because of a deferral provision, see paragraph (g)(2) of this section for the time and manner for capitalizing and recovering that amount. This paragraph (b)(1) does not apply if the taxpayer elects under paragraph (d) of this section not to trace debt.
(2)
Identification and definition of traced debt.
On each measurement date described in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, the taxpayer must identify debt that is traced debt with respect to a unit of designated property. On each such date, traced debt with respect to a unit of designated property is the outstanding eligible debt (as defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section) that is allocated, on that date, to accumulated production expenditures with respect to the unit of designated property under the rules of § 1.163-8T. Traced debt also includes unpaid interest that has been capitalized with respect to such unit under paragraph (b)(1) of this section and that is included in accumulated production expenditures on the measurement date.
(3)
Example.
The provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
Corporation X, a calendar year taxpayer, is engaged in the production of a single unit of designated property during 1995 (unit A). Corporation X adopts a taxable year computation period and quarterly measurement dates. Production of unit A starts on January 14, 1995, and ends on June 16, 1995. On March 31, 1995 and on June 30, 1995, Corporation X has outstanding a $1,000,000 loan that is allocated under the rules of § 1.163-8T to production expenditures with respect to unit A. During the period January 1, 1995, through June 30, 1995, Corporation X incurs $50,000 of interest related to the loan. Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the $50,000 of interest Corporation X incurs on the loan during the period January 1, 1995, through June 30, 1995, must be capitalized with respect to unit A.
(c)
Excess expenditure amount
—(1)
General rule.
If there are accumulated production expenditures in excess of traced debt with respect to a unit of designated property on any measurement date described in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, the taxpayer must, for the computation period that includes the measurement date, capitalize with respect to this unit the excess expenditure amount calculated under this paragraph (c)(1). However, if the sum of the excess expenditure amounts for all units of designated property of a taxpayer exceeds the total interest described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, only a prorata amount (as determined under paragraph (c)(7) of this section) of such interest must be capitalized with respect to each unit. For each unit of designated property, the excess expenditure amount for a computation period equals the product of—
(i) The average excess expenditures (as determined under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section) for the unit of designated property for that period, and
(ii) The weighted average interest rate (as determined under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section) for that period.
(2)
Interest required to be capitalized.
With respect to an excess expenditure amount, interest incurred during the computation period is capitalized from the following sources and in the following sequence but not in excess of the excess expenditure amount for all units of designated property:
(i) Interest incurred on nontraced debt (as defined in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section);
(ii) Interest incurred on borrowings described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section (relating to certain borrowings from related persons); and
(iii) In the case of a partnership, guaranteed payments for the use of capital (within the meaning of section 707(c)) that would be deductible by the partnership if section 263A(f) did not apply.
(3)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (c)(1) and (2) of this section are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
(i) P, a partnership owned equally by Corporation A and Individual B, is engaged in the construction of an office building during 1995. Average excess expenditures for the office building for 1995 are $2,000,000. When P was formed, A and B agreed that A would be entitled to an annual guaranteed payment of $70,000 in exchange for A's capital contribution. The only borrowing of P, A, and B for 1995 is a loan to P from an unrelated lender of $1,000,000 (loan #1). The loan is nontraced debt and bears interest at an annual rate of 10 percent. Thus, P's weighted average interest rate (determined under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section) is 10 percent and interest incurred during 1995 is $100,000.
(ii) In accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the excess expenditure amount is $200,000 ($2,000,000 × 10%). The interest capitalized under paragraph (c)(2) of this section is $170,000 ($100,000 of interest plus $70,000 of guaranteed payments).
(4)
Treatment of interest subject to a deferral provision.
If any interest described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is not taken into account for the taxable year that includes the computation period because of a deferral provision described in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, paragraph (c)(2) of this section is first applied without regard to the amount of the deferred interest. After applying paragraph (c)(2) without regard to the deferred interest, if the amount of interest capitalized with respect to all units of designated property for the computation period is less than the amount that would have been capitalized if a deferral provision did not apply, see paragraph (g)(2) of this section for the time and manner for capitalizing and recovering the difference (the shortfall amount).
(5)
Definitions
—(i)
Nontraced debt
—(A)
Defined. Nontraced debt
means all eligible debt on a measurement date other than any debt that is treated as traced debt with respect to any unit of designated property on that measurement date. For example, nontraced debt includes eligible debt that is allocated to expenditures that are not capitalized under section 263A(a) (
e.g.,
expenditures deductible under section 174(a) or 263(c)). Similarly, even if eligible debt is allocated to a production expenditure for a unit of designated property, the debt is included in nontraced debt on measurement dates before the first or after the last measurement date for that unit of designated property. Thus, nontraced debt may include debt that was previously treated as traced debt or that will be treated as traced debt on a future measurement date.
(B)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (c)(5)(i)(A) of this section are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
In 1995, Corporation X begins, but does not complete, the construction of two office buildings that are separate units of designated property as defined in § 1.263A-10 (Property D and Property E). At the beginning of 1995, X borrows $2,500,000 (the $2,500,000 loan), which will be used exclusively to finance production expenditures for Property D. Although interest is paid currently, the entire principal amount of the loan remains outstanding at the end of 1995. Corporation X also has outstanding during all of 1995 a long-term loan with a principal amount of $2,000,000 (the $2,000,000 loan). The proceeds of the $2,000,000 loan were used exclusively to finance the production of Property C, a unit of designated property that was completed in 1994. Under the rules of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the portion of the $2,500,000 loan allocated to accumulated production expenditures for property D at each measurement date during 1995 is treated as traced debt for that measurement date. The excess, if any, of $2,500,000 over the amount treated as traced debt at each measurement date during 1995 is treated as nontraced debt for that measurement date, even though it is expected that the entire $2,500,000 will be treated as traced debt with
respect to Property D on subsequent measurement dates as more of the proceeds of the loan are used to finance additional production expenditures. In addition, the entire principal amount of the $2,000,000 loan is treated as nontraced debt for 1995, even though it was treated as traced debt with respect to Property C in a previous period.
(ii)
Average excess expenditures
—(A)
General rule.
The average excess expenditures for a unit of designated property for a computation period are computed by—
(
1
) Determining the amount (if any) by which accumulated production expenditures exceed traced debt at each measurement date during the computation period; and
(
2
) Dividing the sum of these amounts by the number of measurement dates during the computation period.
(B)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (c)(5)(ii)(A) of this section are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
Corporation X, a calendar year taxpayer, is engaged in the production of a single unit of designated property during 1995 (unit A). Corporation X adopts the taxable year as the computation period and quarterly measurement dates. The production period for unit A begins on January 14, 1995, and ends on June 16, 1995. On March 31, 1995, and on June 30, 1995, Corporation X has outstanding $1,000,000 of traced debt with respect to unit A. Accumulated production expenditures for unit A on March 31, 1995, are $1,400,000 and on June 30, 1995, are $1,600,000. Accumulated production expenditures in excess of traced debt for unit A on March 31, 1995, are $400,000 and on June 30, 1995, are $600,000. Average excess expenditures for unit A during 1995 are therefore $250,000 ([$400,000 + $600,000 + $0 + $0] ÷ 4).
(iii)
Weighted average interest rate
—(A)
Determination of rate.
The weighted average interest rate for a computation period is determined by dividing interest incurred on nontraced debt during the period by average nontraced debt for the period.
(B)
Interest incurred on nontraced debt.
Interest incurred on nontraced debt during the computation period is equal to the total amount of interest incurred during the computation period on all eligible debt minus the amount of interest incurred during the computation period on traced debt. Thus, all interest incurred on nontraced debt during the computation period is included in the numerator of the weighted average interest rate, even if the underlying nontraced debt is repaid before the end of a measurement period and excluded from nontraced debt outstanding for measurement dates after repayment, in determining the denominator of the weighted average interest rate. However, see paragraph (g)(7) of this section for an election to treat eligible debt that is repaid within the 15-day period immediately preceding a quarterly measurement date as outstanding on that measurement date. See paragraph (a)(3) of this section for the definitions of interest and incurred.
(C)
Average nontraced debt.
The average nontraced debt for a computation period is computed by—
(
1
) Determining the amount of nontraced debt outstanding on each measurement date during the computation period; and
(
2
) Dividing the sum of these amounts by the number of measurement dates during the computation period.
(D)
Special rules if taxpayer has no nontraced debt or rate is contingent.
If the taxpayer does not have nontraced debt outstanding during the computation period, the weighted average interest rate for purposes of applying paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section is the highest applicable Federal rate in effect under section 1274(d) during the computation period. If interest is incurred at a rate that is contingent at the time the return for the year that includes the computation period is filed, the amount of interest is determined using the higher of the fixed rate of interest (if any) on the underlying debt or the applicable Federal rate in effect under section 1274(d) on the date of issuance.
(6)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (c):

# Example 1.
(i) W, a calendar year taxpayer, is engaged in the production of a unit of designated property during 1995. For purposes of applying the avoided cost method of this section, W uses the taxable year as the computation period. During 1995, W's only debt is a $1,000,000 loan bearing interest at a rate of 7 percent from Y, a person that is related to W. Assuming the applicable Federal rate in effect under section 1274(d) on the date of issuance of the loan is 10 percent, the loan is
not eligible debt under paragraph (a)(4) of this section. However, even though W has no eligible debt, W incurs $70,000 ($1,000,000 × 7%) of interest during the computation period. This interest is described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and must be capitalized under paragraph (c)(1) of this section to the extent it does not exceed W's excess expenditure amount for the unit of property.
(ii) W determines, under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, that average excess expenditures for the unit of property are $600,000. Assuming the highest applicable Federal rate in effect under section 1274(d) during the computation period is 10 percent, W uses 10 percent as the weighted average interest rate for purposes of determining the excess expenditure amount. See paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(D) of this section. In accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the excess expenditure amount is therefore $60,000. Because this amount does not exceed the total amount of interest described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section ($70,000), W is required to capitalize $60,000 of interest with respect to the unit of designated property for the 1995 computation period.

# Example 2.
(i) Corporation X, a calendar year taxpayer, is engaged in the production of a single unit of designated property during 1955 (unit A). Corporation X adopts the taxable year as the computation period and quarterly measurement dates. Production of unit A begins in 1994 and ends on June 30, 1995. On March 31, 1995, and on June 30, 1995, Corporation X has outstanding $1,000,000 of eligible debt (loan #1) that is allocated under the rules of § 1.163-8T to production expenditures for unit A. During each of the first two quarters of 1995, $30,000 of interest is incurred on loan #1. The loan is repaid on July 1, 1995. Throughout 1995, Corporation X also has outstanding $2,000,000 of eligible debt (loan #2) which is not allocated under the rules of § 1.163-8T to the production of unit A. During 1995, $200,000 of interest is incurred on this nontraced debt. Accumulated production expenditures on March 31, 1995, are $1,400,000 and on June 30, 1995, are $1,600,000. Accumulated production expenditures in excess of traced debt on March 31, 1995, are $400,000 and on June 30, 1995, are $600,000.
(ii) Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the amount of interest capitalized with respect to traced debt is $60,000 ($30,000 for the measurement period ending March 31, 1995, and $30,000 for the measurement period ending June 30, 1995). Under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, average excess expenditures for unit A are $250,000 ([($1,400,000−$1,000,000) + ($1,600,000−$1,000,000) + $0 + $0] ÷ 4). Under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(C) of this section, average nontraced debt is $2,000,000 ([$2,000,000 + $2,000,000 + $2,000,000 + $2,000,000] ÷ 4). Under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, interest incurred on nontraced debt is $200,000 ($260,000 of interest incurred on all eligible debt less $60,000 of interest incurred on traced debt). Under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(A) of this section, the weighted average interest rate is 10 percent ($200,000 ÷ $2,000,000). Under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, Corporation X capitalizes the excess expenditure amount of $25,000 ($250,000 × 10%), because it does not exceed the total amount of interest subject to capitalization under paragraph (c)(2) of this section ($200,000). Thus, the total interest capitalized with respect to unit A during 1995 is $85,000 ($60,000 + $25,000).
(7)
Special rules where the excess expenditure amount exceeds incurred interest
—(i)
Allocation of total incurred interest to units.
For a computation period in which the sum of the excess expenditure amounts under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for all units of designated property exceeds the total amount of interest (including deferred interest) available for capitalization, as determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the amount of interest that is allocated to a unit of designated property is equal to the product of—
(A) The total amount of interest (including deferred interest) available for capitalization, as determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section; and
(B) A fraction, the numerator of which is the average excess expenditures for the unit of designated property and the denominator of which is the sum of the average excess expenditures for all units of designated property.
(ii)
Application of related person rules to average excess expenditure.
Certain excess expenditures must be taken into account by the persons (if any) required to capitalize interest with respect to production expenditures of the taxpayer under applicable related person rules. For each computation period, the amount of average excess expenditures that must be taken into account by such persons for each unit of the taxpayer's property is computed by—
(A) Determining, for the computation period, the amount (if any) by which the excess expenditure amount for the unit exceeds the amount of interest allocated to the unit under paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section; and
(B) Dividing the excess by the weighted average interest rate for the period.
(iii)
Special rule for corporations.
If a corporation is related to another person for the purposes of the applicable related party rules, the District Director upon examination may require that the corporation apply this paragraph (c)(7) and other provisions of the regulations by excluding deferred interest from the total interest available for capitalization.
(d)
Election not to trace debt
—(1)
General rule.
Taxpayers may elect not to trace debt. If the election is made, the average excess expenditures and weighted average interest rate under paragraph (c)(5) of this section are determined by treating all eligible debt as nontraced debt. For this purpose, debt specified in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section (e.g., accounts payable) may be included in eligible debt, provided it would be treated as traced debt but for an election under this paragraph (d). The election not to trace debt is a method of accounting that applies to the determination of capitalized interest for all designated property of the taxpayer. The making or revocation of the election is a change in method of accounting requiring the consent of the Commissioner under section 446(e) and § 1.446-1(e).
(2)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
(i) Corporation X, a calendar year taxpayer, is engaged in the production of a single unit of designated property during 1995 (unit A). Corporation X adopts the taxable year as the computation period and quarterly measurement dates. At each measurement date (March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31) Corporation X has the following outstanding indebtedness:
Noninterest-bearing accounts payable traced to unit A
$100,000
Noninterest-bearing accounts payable that are not traced to unit A
$300,000
Interest-bearing loans that are eligible debt within the meaning of paragraph (a)(4) of this section
$900,000
(ii) Corporation X elects under this paragraph (d) not to trace debt. Eligible debt at each measurement date for purposes of calculating the weighted average interest rate under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section is $1,000,000 ($100,000 + $900,000).
(e)
Election to use external rate
—(1)
In general.
An eligible taxpayer may elect to use the highest applicable Federal rate (AFR) under section 1274(d) in effect during the computation period plus 3 percentage points (AFR plus 3) as a substitute for the weighted average interest rate determined under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section. A taxpayer that makes this election may not trace debt. The use of the AFR plus 3 as provided under this paragraph (e)(1) constitutes a method of accounting. A taxpayer makes the election to use the AFR plus 3 method by using the AFR plus 3 as the taxpayer's weighted average interest rate, and any change to the AFR plus 3 method by a taxpayer that has never previously used the method does not require the consent of the Commissioner. Any other change to or from the use of the AFR plus 3 method under this paragraph (e)(1) (other than by reason of a taxpayer ceasing to be an eligible taxpayer) is a change in method of accounting requiring the consent of the Commissioner under section 446(e) and § 1.446-1(e). All changes to or from the AFR plus 3 method are effected on a cut-off basis.
(2)
Eligible taxpayer.
A taxpayer is an eligible taxpayer for a taxable year for purposes of this paragraph (e) if the average annual gross receipts of the taxpayer for the three previous taxable years do not exceed $10,000,000 (the $10,000,000 gross receipts test) and the taxpayer has met the $10,000 gross receipts for all prior taxable years beginning after December 31, 1994. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(2), the principles of section 263A(b)(2)(B) and (C) and § 1.263A-3(b) apply in determining whether a taxpayer is an eligible taxpayer for a taxable year. A taxpayer is an eligible taxpayer for a taxable year for purposes of this paragraph (e) if the taxpayer is a small business taxpayer, as defined in § 1.263A-1(j).
(f)
Selection of computation period and measurement dates and application of averaging conventions
—(1)
Computation period
—(i)
In general.
A taxpayer may (but is not required to) make the avoided cost calculation on the basis of a full taxable year. If the taxpayer uses the taxable year as the computation period, a single avoided cost calculation is made for each unit of designated property for the entire taxable year. If the taxpayer uses a computation period that is shorter than the full taxable year, an avoided cost calculation is
made for each unit of designated property for each shorter computation period within the taxable year. If the taxpayer uses a shorter computation period, the computation period may not include portions of more than one taxable year and, except as provided in the case of short taxable years, each computation period within a taxable year must be the same length. In the case of a short taxable year, a taxpayer may treat a period shorter than the taxpayer's regular computation period as the first or last computation period, or as the only computation period for the year if the year is shorter than the taxpayer's regular computation period. A taxpayer must use the same computation periods for all designated property produced during a single taxable year.
(ii)
Method of accounting.
The choice of a computation period is a method of accounting. Any change in the computation period is a change in method of accounting requiring the consent of the Commissioner under section 446(e) and § 1.446-1(e).
(iii)
Production period beginning or ending during the computation period.
The avoided cost method applies to the production of a unit of designated property on the basis of a full computation period, regardless of whether the production period for the unit of designated property begins or ends during the computation period.
(2)
Measurement dates
—(i)
In general.
If a taxpayer uses the taxable year as the computation period, measurement dates must occur at quarterly or more frequent regular intervals. If the taxpayer uses computation periods that are shorter than the taxable year, measurement dates must occur at least twice during each computation period and at least four times during the taxable year (or consecutive 12-month period in the case of a short taxable year). The taxpayer must use the same measurement dates for all designated property produced during a computation period. Except in the case of a computation period that differs from the taxpayer's regular computation period by reason of a short taxable year (see paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section), measurement dates must occur at equal intervals during each computation period that falls within a single taxable year. For any computation period that differs from the taxpayer's regular computation period by reason of a short taxable year, the measurement dates used by the taxpayer during that period must be consistent with the principles and purposes of section 263A(f). A taxpayer is permitted to modify the frequency of measurement dates from year to year.
(ii)
Measurement period.
For purposes of this section,
measurement period
means the period that begins on the first day following the preceding measurement date and that ends on the measurement date.
(iii)
Measurement dates on which accumulated production expenditures must be taken into account.
The first measurement date on which accumulated production expenditures must be taken into account with respect to a unit of designated property is the first measurement date following the beginning of the production period for the unit of designated property. The final measurement date on which accumulated production expenditures with respect to a unit of designated property must be taken into account is the first measurement date following the end of the production period for the unit of designated property. Accumulated production expenditures with respect to a unit of designated property must also be taken into account on all intervening measurement dates. See § 1.263A-12 to determine when the production period begins and ends.
(iv)
More frequent measurement dates.
When in the opinion of the District Director more frequent measurement dates are necessary to determine capitalized interest consistent with the principles and purposes of section 263A(f) for a particular computation period, the District Director may require the use of more frequent measurement dates. If a significant segment of the taxpayer's production activities (the first segment) requires more frequent measurement dates than another significant segment of the taxpayer's production activities, the taxpayer may request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service permitting, for a taxable year and all subsequent taxable years, a segregation of the two segments and, notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(i) of
this section, the use of the more frequent measurement dates for only the first segment. The request for a ruling must be made in accordance with any applicable rules relating to submissions of ruling requests. The request must be filed on or before the due date (including extensions) of the original Federal income tax return for the first taxable year to which it will apply.
(3)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the principles of this paragraph (f):

# Example 1.
Corporation X, a calendar year taxpayer, is engaged in the production of designated property during 1995. Corporation X adopts the taxable year as the computation period and quarterly measurement dates. Corporation X must identify traced debt, accumulated production expenditures, and nontraced debt at each quarterly measurement date (March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31). Under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, Corporation X must calculate average excess expenditures for each unit of designated property by determining the amount by which accumulated production expenditures exceed traced debt for each unit at the end of each quarter and dividing the sum of these amounts by four. Under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) (C) of this section, Corporation X must calculate average nontraced debt by determining the amount of nontraced debt outstanding at the end of each quarter and dividing the sum of these amounts by four.

# Example 2.
Corporation X, a calendar year taxpayer, is engaged in the production of designated property during 1995. Corporation X adopts a 6-month computation period with two measurement dates within each computation period. Corporation X must identify traced debt, accumulated production expenditures, and nontraced debt at each measurement date (March 31 and June 30 for the first computation period and September 30 and December 31 for the second computation period). Under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section, Corporation X must, for each computation period, calculate average excess expenditures for each unit of designated property by determining the amount by which accumulated production expenditures exceed traced debt for each unit at each measurement date during the period and dividing the sum of these amounts by two. Under paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(C) of this section, Corporation X must calculate average nontraced debt for each computation period by determining the amount of nontraced debt outstanding at each measurement date during the period and dividing the sum of these amounts by two.

# Example 3.
(i) Corporation X, a calendar year taxpayer, is engaged in the production of two units of designated property during 1995. Production of Unit A starts in 1994 and ends on June 20, 1995. Production of Unit B starts on April 15, 1995, but does not end until 1996. Corporation X adopts the taxable year as its computation period and does not elect under paragraph (d) of this section not to trace debt. Corporation X uses quarterly measurement dates and pays all interest on eligible debt in the quarter in which the interest is incurred. During 1995, Corporation X has two items of eligible debt. The debt and the manner in which it is used are as follows:
No.
Principal
Annual rate
(percent)
Period outstanding
Use of proceeds
1
$1,000,000
9
1/01-9/01
Unit A.
2
2,000,000
11
6/01-12/31
Nontraced.
(ii) Based on the annual 9 percent rate of interest, Corporation X incurs $7,500 of interest during each month that Loan #1 is outstanding.
(iii) Accumulated production expenditures at the end of each quarter during 1995 are as follows:
Measurement date
Unit A
Unit B
March 31
$1,200,000
$0
June 30
1,800,000
500,000
Sept. 30
0
1,000,000
Dec. 31
0
1,600,000
(iv) Corporation X must first determine the amount of interest incurred on traced debt and capitalize the interest incurred on this debt (the traced debt amount). Loan #1 is allocated to Unit A on the March 31 and June 30 measurement dates. Accordingly, Loan #1 is treated as traced debt with respect to unit A for the measurement periods beginning January 1 and ending June 30. The interest incurred on Loan #1 during the period that Loan #1 is treated as traced debt must be capitalized with respect to Unit A. Thus, $45,000 ($7,500 per month for 6 months) is capitalized with respect to Unit A.
(v) Second, Corporation X must determine average excess expenditures for Unit A and Unit B. For Unit A, this amount is $250,000 ([$200,000 + $800,000 + $0 + $0] ÷ 4). For Unit B, this amount is $775,000 ([$0 + $500,000 + $1,000,000 + $1,600,000] ÷ 4).
(vi) Third, Corporation X must determine the weighted average interest rate and apply that rate to the average excess expenditures for Units A and B. The rate is equal to the total amount of interest incurred on nontraced debt (i.e., interest incurred on all eligible debt reduced by interest incurred on traced debt) divided by the average nontraced debt. The interest incurred on nontraced debt equals $143,333 ([$1,000,000 × 9% ×
8/12
] + [$2,000,000 × 11% ×
7/12
] − $45,000). The average nontraced debt equals $1,500,000 ([$0 + $2,000,000 + $2,000,000 + $2,000,000] ÷ 4). The weighted average interest rate of 9.56 percent ($143,333 ′ $1,500,000), is then applied to average excess expenditures for Units A and B. Accordingly, Corporation X capitalizes an additional $23,900 ($250,000 × 9.56%) with respect to Unit A and $74,090 ($775,000 × 9.56%) with respect to Unit B (the excess expenditure amounts).
(g)
Special rules
—(1)
Ordering rules
—(i)
Provisions preempted by section 263A(f).
Interest must be capitalized under section 263A(f) before the application of section 163(d) (regarding the investment interest limitation), section 163(j) (regarding the limitation on business interest expense), section 266 (regarding the election to capitalize carrying charges), section 469 (regarding the limitation on passive losses), and section 861 (regarding the allocation of interest to United States sources). Any interest that is capitalized under section 263A(f) is not taken into account as interest under those sections. However, in applying section 263A(f) with respect to the excess expenditure amount, the taxpayer must capitalize all interest that is neither investment interest under section 163(d), business interest expense under section 163(j), nor passive interest under section 469 before capitalizing any interest that is either investment interest, business interest expense, or passive interest. Any interest that is not required to be capitalized after the application of section 263A(f) is then taken into account as interest subject to sections 163(d), 163(j), 266, 469, and 861. If, after the application of section 263A(f), interest is deferred under sections 163(d), 163(j), 266, or 469, that interest is not subject to capitalization under section 263A(f) in any subsequent taxable year.
(ii)
Deferral provisions applied before this section.
Interest (including contingent interest) that is subject to a deferral provision described in this paragraph (g)(1)(ii) is subject to capitalization under section 263A(f) only in the taxable year in which it would be deducted if section 263A(f) did not apply. Deferral provisions include sections 163(e)(3), 267, 446, and 461, and all other deferral or limitation provisions that are not described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section. In contrast to the provisions of paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, deferral provisions are applied before the application of section 263A(f).
(2)
Application of section 263A(f) to deferred interest
—(i)
In general.
This paragraph (g)(2) describes the time and manner of capitalizing and recovering the deferral amount. The deferral amount for any computation period equals the sum of—
(A) The amount of interest that is incurred on traced debt that is deferred during the computation period and is not deductible for the taxable year that includes the computation period because of a deferral provision described in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, and
(B) The shortfall amount described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(ii)
Capitalization of deferral amount.
The rules described in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section apply to the deferral amount unless the taxpayer elects under paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section to capitalize substitute costs.
(iii)
Deferred capitalization.
If the taxpayer does not elect under paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section to capitalize substitute costs, deferred interest to which the deferral amount is attributable (determined under any reasonable method) is capitalized in the year or years in which the deferred interest would have been deductible but for the application of section 263A(f) (the capitalization year). For this purpose, any interest that is deferred from a prior computation period is taken into account in subsequent capitalization years in the same order in which the interest was deferred. If a unit of designated property to which previously deferred interest relates is sold before the capitalization year, the deferred interest applicable to that unit of property is taken into account in the capitalization year and treated as if recovered from the sale of the property. If
the taxpayer continues to hold, throughout the capitalization year, a unit of depreciable property to which previously deferred interest relates, the adjusted basis and applicable recovery percentages for the unit of property are redetermined for the capitalization year and subsequent years so that the increase in basis is accounted for over the remaining recovery periods beginning with the capitalization year. See
Example 2
of paragraph (g)(2)(v) of this section.
(iv)
Substitute capitalization
—(A)
General rule.
In lieu of deferred capitalization under paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section, the taxpayer may elect the substitute capitalization method described in this paragraph (g)(2)(iv). Under this method, the taxpayer capitalizes for the computation period in which interest is incurred and deferred (the deferral period) costs that would be deducted but for this paragraph (g)(2)(iv) (substitute costs). The taxpayer must capitalize an amount of substitute costs equal to the deferral amount for each unit of designated property, or if less, a prorata amount (determined in accordance with the principles of paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section) of the total substitute costs that would be deducted but for this paragraph (g)(2)(iv) during the deferral period. If the entire deferral amount is capitalized pursuant to this paragraph (g)(2)(iv) in the deferral period, any interest incurred and deferred in the deferral period is neither capitalized nor deducted during the deferral period and, unless subsequently capitalized as a substitute cost under this paragraph (g)(2)(iv), is deductible in the appropriate subsequent period without regard to section 263A(f).
(B)
Capitalization of amount carried forward.
If the taxpayer has an insufficient amount of substitute costs in the deferral period, the amount by which substitute costs are insufficient with respect to each unit of designated property is a deferral amount carryforward to succeeding computation periods beginning with the next computation period. In any carryforward year, the taxpayer must capitalize an amount of substitute costs equal to the deferral amount carryforward or, if less, a prorata amount (determined in accordance with the principles of paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section) of the total substitute costs that would be deducted during the carryforward year or years (the carryforward capitalization year) but for this paragraph (g)(2)(iv) (after applying the substitute cost method of this paragraph (g)(2)(iv) to the production of designated property in the carryforward period). If a unit of designated property to which the deferral amount carryforward relates is sold prior to the carryforward capitalization year, substitute costs applicable to that unit of property are taken into account in the carryforward capitalization year and treated as if recovered from the sale of the property. If the taxpayer continues to hold, throughout the capitalization year, a unit of depreciable property to which a deferral amount carryforward relates, the adjusted basis and applicable recovery percentages for the unit of property are redetermined for the carryforward capitalization year and subsequent years so that the increase in basis is accounted for over the remaining recovery periods beginning with the carryforward capitalization year. See
Example 2
of paragraph (g)(2)(v) of this section.
(C)
Method of accounting.
The substitute capitalization method under this paragraph (g)(2)(iv) is a method of accounting that applies to all designated property of the taxpayer. A change to or from the substitute capitalization method is a change in method of accounting requiring the consent of the Commissioner under section 446(e) and § 1.446-1(e).
(v)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of the avoided cost method when interest is subject to a deferral provision:

# Example 1.
(i) Corporation X is a calendar year taxpayer and uses the taxable year as it computation period. During 1995, X is engaged in the construction of a warehouse which X will use in its storage business. The warehouse is completed and placed in service in December 1995. X's average excess expenditures for 1995 equal $1,000,000. Throughout 1995, X's only outstanding debt is nontraced debt of $900,000 and $1,200,000, bearing interest at 15 percent and 9 percent, respectively, per year. Of the $243,000 interest incurred during the year ([$900,000 × 15%] + [$1,200,000
× 9%] = [$135,000 + $108,000]), $75,000 is deferred under section 267(a)(2).
(ii) X must first determine the amount of interest required to be capitalized under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for 1995 (the deferral period) without applying section 267(a)(2). The weighted average interest rate is 11.6 percent ([$135,000 + $108,000] ÷ $2,100,000), and the excess expenditure amount under paragraph (c)(1) of this section is $116,000 ($1,000,000 × 11.6%). Under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, X must then determine the amount of interest that would be capitalized by applying paragraph (c)(2) of this section without regard to the amount of deferred interest. Disregarding deferred interest, the amount of interest available for capitalization is $168,000 ([$900,000 × 15%] + [$1,200,000 × 9%]− $75,000). Thus, the full excess expenditure amount ($116,000) is capitalized from interest that is not deferred under section 267(a)(2) and there is no shortfall amount.

# Example 2.
(i) The facts are the same as in
Example 1,
except that $140,000 of interest is deferred under section 267 (a)(2) in 1995. The taxpayer does not elect to use the substitute capitalization method. This interest is also deferred in 1996 but would be deducted in 1997 if section 263A(f) did not apply. As in
Example 1,
the excess expenditure amount is $116,000. However, the amount of interest available for capitalization after excluding the amount of deferred interest is $103,000 ([$900,000 × 15%] + [$1,200,000 × 9%]− $140,000). Thus, only $103,000 of interest is capitalized with respect to the warehouse in 1995. Since $116,000 of interest would be capitalized if section 267(a)(2) did not apply, the deferral amount determined under paragraphs (c)(2) and (g)(2)(i) of this section is $13,000 ($116,000 −$103,000), and $13,000 of deferred interest must be capitalized in the year in which it would be deducted if section 263A(f) did not apply.
(ii) The $140,000 of interest deferred under section 267(a)(2) in 1995 would be deducted in 1997 if section 263A(f) did not apply. X is therefore required to capitalize an additional $13,000 of interest with respect to the warehouse in 1997 and must redetermine its basis and recovery percentage.
(3)
Simplified inventory method
—(i)
In general.
This paragraph (g)(3) provides a simplified method of capitalizing interest expense with respect to designated property that is inventory. Under this method, the taxpayer determines beginning and ending inventory and cost of goods sold applying all other capitalization provisions, including, for example, the simplified production method of § 1.263A-2(b), but without regard to the capitalization of interest with respect to inventory. The taxpayer must establish a separate capital asset, however, in an amount equal to the aggregate interest capitalization amount (as defined in paragraph (g)(3)(iii)(C) of this section). Under the simplified inventory method, increases in the aggregate interest capitalization amount from one year to the next generally are treated as reductions in interest expense, and decreases in the aggregate interest capitalization amount from one year to the next are treated as increases to cost of goods sold.
(ii)
Segmentation of inventory
—(A)
General rule.
Under the simplified inventory method, the taxpayer first separates its total ending inventory value into segments that are equal to the total ending inventory value divided by the inverse inventory turnover rate. Each inventory segment is then assigned an age starting with one year and increasing by one year for each additional segment. The inverse inventory turnover rate is determined by finding the average of beginning and ending inventory, dividing the average by the cost of goods sold for the year, and rounding the result to the nearest whole number. Beginning and ending inventory amounts are determined using total current cost of inventory for the year (rather than carrying value). Cost of goods sold, however, may be determined using either total current cost or the taxpayer's inventory method. In addition, for purposes of this paragraph (g)(3)(ii), current costs for a year (and, if applicable, the cost of goods sold for the year under the taxpayer's inventory method) are determined without regard to the capitalization of interest with respect to inventory.
(B)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(A) of this section are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
X, a taxpayer using the FIFO inventory method, determines that total cost of goods sold for 1995 equals $900, and the cost of both beginning and ending inventory equals $3,000. Thus, X's inverse inventory turnover rate equals 3 (3.33 rounded to the nearest whole number). Total ending inventory of $3,000 is divided into three segments of $1,000 each. One segment is treated as 3-year-old inventory, one segment is treated as 2-year-old inventory, and one segment is treated as 1-year-old inventory.
(iii)
Aggregate interest capitalization amount
—(A)
Computation period and weighted average interest rate.
If a taxpayer elects the simplified inventory method, the taxpayer must use the taxable year as its computation period and use the weighted average interest rate determined under this paragraph (g)(3)(iii)(A) in determining the aggregate interest capitalization amount defined in paragraph (g)(3)(iii)(C) of this section and in determining the amount of interest capitalized with respect to any designated property that is not inventory. Under the simplified inventory method, the taxpayer determines the weighted average interest rate in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, treating all eligible debt (other than debt traced to noninventory property in the case of a taxpayer tracing debt) as nontraced debt (i.e., without tracing debt to inventory). A taxpayer that has elected under paragraph (e) of this section to use an external rate as a substitute for the weighted average interest rate determined under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section uses the rate described in paragraph (e)(1) as the weighted average interest rate.
(B)
Computation of the tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount.
The weighted average interest rate is compounded annually by the number of years assigned to a particular inventory segment to produce an interest factor (applicable interest factor) for that segment. The amounts determined by multiplying the value of each inventory segment by its applicable interest factor are then combined to produce a tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount.
(C)
Coordination with other interest capitalization computations
—(
1
)
In general.
If the tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount for a year exceeds the aggregate interest capitalization amount (defined in paragraph (g)(3)(iii)(D) of this section) as of the close of the preceding year, then, for purposes of applying the rules of paragraph (c)(7) of this section, the excess is treated as an excess expenditure amount and the inventory to which the simplified inventory method of this paragraph (g)(3) applies is treated as a single unit of designated property. If, after these modifications, no paragraph (c)(7) interest allocation is necessary (i.e., the excess expenditure amounts for all units of designated property do not exceed the total amount of interest (including deferred interest) available for capitalization), the aggregate interest capitalization amount generally equals the tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount. If, on the other hand, a paragraph (c)(7) allocation is necessary, the tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount is generally adjusted to reflect the results of that allocation (i.e., the increase in the aggregate interest capitalization amount is limited to the amount of interest allocated to inventory, reduced, however, by any substitute costs that are capitalized with respect to inventory under applicable related party rules).
(
2
)
Deferred interest.
In determining the aggregate interest capitalization amount, the tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount is adjusted (after the application of paragraph (c)(7) of this section) as appropriate to reflect the deferred interest rules of paragraph (g)(2) of this section. The tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount would be reduced, for example, by the amount of a taxpayer's deferred interest for a taxable year unless the taxpayer has elected the substitute capitalization method under paragraph (g)(2)(iv).
(
3
)
Other coordinating provisions.
The Commissioner may prescribe, by revenue ruling or revenue procedure, additional provisions to coordinate the election and use of the simplified inventory method with other interest capitalization requirements and methods. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter.
(D)
Treatment of increases or decreases in the aggregate interest capitalization amount.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (g)(3)(iii)(D), increases in the aggregate interest capitalization amount from one year to the next are treated as reductions in interest expense, and decreases in the aggregate interest capitalization amount from one year to the next are treated as increases to cost of goods
sold. To the extent a taxpayer capitalizes substitute costs under either applicable related party rules or the deferred interest rules in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, increases in the aggregate interest capitalization amount are treated as reductions in applicable substitute costs, rather than interest expense.
(E)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (g)(3)(iii) are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
The facts are the same as in the example in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, and, in addition, X determines that its weighted average interest rate for 1995 is 10 percent. Additionally, assume that X has no deferred interest in 1995 or 1996 and no deferral amount carryforward to either 1995 or 1996. (See paragraph (g)(2) of this section.) Also assume that no allocation is necessary under paragraph (c)(7) of this section in either 1995 or 1996. Under the rules of paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section, X divides ending inventory into segments of $1,000 each. One segment is 1-year old inventory, one segment is 2-year old inventory, and one segment is 3-year old inventory. Under paragraph (g)(3)(iii)(B) of this section, X must compute the applicable interest factor for each segment. The applicable interest factor for the 1-year old inventory is not compounded. The applicable interest factor for the 2-year old inventory is compounded for 1 year. The applicable interest factor for the 3-year old inventory is compounded for 2 years. The interest factor applied to the 1-year old inventory segment is .1. The interest factor applied to the 2-year old inventory segment is .21 [(1.1 × 1.1)−1]. The interest factor applied to the 3-year old inventory is .331 [(1.1 × 1.1 × 1.1)−1]. Thus, the tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount for 1995 is $641 (1,000 × [.1 + .21 + .331]). Because X has no deferred interest in 1995, no deferral amount carryforward to 1995, and no required allocation under paragraph (c)(7) of this section in 1995, X's aggregate interest capitalization amount equals its $641 tentative aggregate interest capitalization amount. If, in 1996, X computes an aggregate interest capitalization amount of $750, the $109 increase in the amount from 1995 to 1996 would be treated as a reduction in interest expense for 1996.
(iv)
Method of accounting.
The simplified inventory method is a method of accounting that must be elected for and applied to all inventory within a single trade or business of the taxpayer (within the meaning of section 446(d) and § 1.446-1(d)). This method may be elected only if the inventory in that trade or business consists only of designated property and only if the taxpayer's inverse inventory turnover rate for that trade or business (as defined in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(A) of this section) is greater than or equal to one. A change from or to the simplified inventory method is a change in method of accounting requiring the consent of the Commissioner under section 446(e) and § 1.446-(1)(e).
(4)
Financial accounting method disregarded.
The avoided cost method is applied under this section without regard to any financial or regulatory accounting principles for the capitalization of interest. For example, this section determines the amount of interest that must be capitalized without regard to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement Nos. 34, 71, and 90, issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, Norwalk, CT 06856-5116. Similarly, taxpayers are not permitted to net interest income and interest expense in determining the amount of interest that must be capitalized under this section with respect to certain restricted tax-exempt borrowings even though netting is permitted under FASB Statement No. 62.
(5)
Treatment of intercompany transactions
—(i)
General rule.
If interest capitalized under section 263A(f) by a member of a consolidated group (within the meaning of § 1.1502-1(h)) with respect to a unit of designated property is attributable to a loan from another member of the group (the lending member), the intercompany transaction provisions of the consolidated return regulations do not apply to the lending member's interest income with respect to that loan, except as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section. For this purpose, the capitalized interest expense that is attributable to a loan from another member is determined under any method that reasonably reflects the principles of the avoided cost method, including the traced and nontraced concepts. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(5)(i) and paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section, in order for a method to be considered reasonable it must be consistently applied.
(ii)
Special rule for consolidated group with limited outside borrowing.
If, for
any year, the aggregate amount of interest income described in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section for all members of the group with respect to all units of designated property exceeds the total amount of interest that is deductible for that year by all members of the group with respect to debt of a member owed to nonmembers (group deductible interest) after applying section 263A(f), the intercompany transaction provisions of the consolidated return regulations are applied to the excess, and the amount of interest income that must be taken into account by the group under paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section is limited to the amount of the group deductible interest. The amount to which the intercompany transaction provisions of the consolidated return regulations apply by reason of this paragraph (g)(5)(ii) is allocated among the lending members under any method that reasonably reflects each member's share of interest income described in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section. If a lending member has interest income that is attributable to more than one unit of designated property, the amount to which the intercompany transaction provisions of the consolidated return regulations apply by reason of this paragraph (g)(5)(ii) with respect to the member is allocated among the units in accordance with the principles of paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section.
(iii)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
(i) P and S1 are the members of a consolidated group. In 1995, S1 begins and completes the construction of a shopping center and is required to capitalize interest with respect to the construction. S1's average excess expenditures for 1995 are $5,000,000. Throughout 1995, S1's only borrowings include a $6,000,000 loan from P bearing interest at an annual rate of 10 percent ($600,000 per year). Under the avoided cost method, S1 is required to capitalize interest in the amount of $500,000 ([$600,000 ÷ $6,000,000 × 5,000,000).
(ii) P's only borrowing from unrelated lenders is a $2,000,000 loan bearing interest at an annual rate of 10 percent ($200,000 per year). Under the principles of paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section, because the aggregate amount of interest described in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section ($500,000) exceeds the aggregate amount of currently deductible interest of the group ($200,000), the intercompany transaction provisions of the consolidated return regulations apply to the excess of $300,000 and the amount of P's interest income that is subject to current inclusion by reason of paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section is limited to $200,000.
(6)
Notional principal contracts and other derivatives.
[Reserved]
(7)
15-day repayment rule.
A taxpayer may elect to treat any eligible debt that is repaid within the 15-day period immediately preceding a quarterly measurement date as outstanding as of that measurement date for purposes of determining traced debt, average nontraced debt, and the weighted average interest rate. This election may be made or discontinued for any computation period and is not a method of accounting.
[T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67200, Dec. 29, 1994; 60 FR 16574, Mar. 31, 1995, as amended by T.D. 8584, 60 FR 47053, Sept. 11, 1995; T.D. 9129, 69 FR 29067, May 20, 2004; T.D. 9179, 70 FR 8730, Feb. 23, 2005; T.D. 9905, 85 FR 56832, Sept. 14, 2020; T.D. 9942, 86 FR 268, Jan. 5, 2021]
§ 1.263A-10
Unit of property.
(a)
In general.
The unit of property as defined in this section is used as the basis to determine accumulated production expenditures under § 1.263A-11 and the beginning and end of the production period under § 1.263A-12. Whether property is 1-year or 2-year property under § 1.263A-8(b)(1)(ii) is also determined separately with respect to each unit of property as defined in this section.
(b)
Units of real property
—(1)
In general.
A unit of real property includes any components of real property owned by the taxpayer or a related person that are functionally interdependent and an allocable share of any common feature owned by the taxpayer or a related person that is real property even though the common feature does not meet the functional interdependence test. When the production period begins with respect to any functionally interdependent component or any common feature of the unit of real property, the production period has begun for the entire unit of real property. See, however, paragraph (b)(5) of this section for rules under which the costs of a common feature or benefitted
property are excluded from accumulated production expenditures for one or more measurement dates. The portion of land included in a unit of real property includes land on which real property (including a common feature) included in the unit is situated, land subject to setback restrictions with respect to such property, and any other contiguous portion of the tract of land other than land that the taxpayer holds for a purpose unrelated to the unit being produced (e.g., investment purposes, personal use purposes, or specified future development as a separate unit of real property).
(2)
Functional interdependence.
Components of real property produced by, or for, the taxpayer, for use by the taxpayer or a related person are functionally interdependent if the placing in service of one component is dependent on the placing in service of the other component by the taxpayer or a related person. In the case of property produced for sale, components of real property are functionally interdependent if they are customarily sold as a single unit. For example, the real property components of a single-family house (e.g., the land, foundation, and walls) are functionally interdependent. In contrast, components of real property that are expected to be separately placed in service or held for resale are not functionally interdependent. Thus, dwelling units within a multi-unit building that are separately placed in service or sold (within the meaning of § 1.263A-12(d)(1)) are treated as functionally independent of any other units, even though the units are located in the same building.
(3)
Common features.
For purposes of this section, a common feature generally includes any real property (as defined in § 1.263A-8(c)) that benefits real property produced by, or for, the taxpayer or a related person, and that is not separately held for the production of income. A common feature need not be physically contiguous to the real property that it benefits. Examples of common features include streets, sidewalks, playgrounds, clubhouses, tennis courts, sewer lines, and cables that are not held for the production of income separately from the units of real property that they benefit.
(4)
Allocation of costs to unit.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the accumulated production expenditures for a unit of real property include, in all cases, the costs that directly benefit, or are incurred by reason of the production of, the unit of real property. Accumulated production expenditures also include the adjusted basis of property used to produce the unit of real property. The accumulated costs of a common feature or land that benefits more than one unit of real property, or that benefits designated property and property other than designated property, is apportioned among the units of designated property, or among the designated property and property other than designated property, in determining accumulated production expenditures. The apportionment of the accumulated costs of the common feature (allocable share) or land (attributable land costs) generally may be made using any method that is applied on a consistent basis and that reasonably reflects the benefits provided. For example, an apportionment based on relative costs to be incurred, relative space to be occupied, or relative fair market values may be reasonable.
(5)
Treatment of costs when a common feature is included in a unit of real property
—(i)
General rule.
Except as provided in this paragraph (b)(5), the accumulated production expenditures of a unit of real property include the costs of functionally interdependent components (benefitted property) and an allocable share of the cost of common features throughout the entire production period of the unit. See § 1.263A-12, relating to the production period of a unit of property.
(ii)
Production activity not undertaken on benefitted property
—(A)
Direct production activity not undertaken—(1) In general.
The costs of land attributable to a benefitted property may be treated as not included in accumulated production expenditures for a unit of real property for measurement dates prior to the first date a production activity (direct production activity), including the clearing and grading of land, has been undertaken with respect to the
land attributable to the benefitted property. Thus, the costs of land attributable to a benefitted property (as opposed to land attributable to the common features) with respect to which no direct production activities have been undertaken may be treated as not included in the accumulated production expenditures of a unit of real property even though a production activity has begun on a common feature allocable to the unit.
(
2) Land attributable to a benefitted property.
For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii), land attributable to a benefitted property includes all land in the unit of real property that includes the benefitted property other than land for a common feature. (Thus, land attributable to a benefitted property does not include land attributable to a common feature.)
(B)
Suspension of direct production activity after clearing and grading undertaken—(1) General rule.
This paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B) may be used to determine the accumulated production expenditures for a unit of real property, if the only production activity with respect to a benefitted property has been clearing and grading and no further direct production activity is undertaken with respect to the benefitted property for at least 120 consecutive days (i.e., direct production activity has ceased). Under this paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B), the accumulated production expenditures attributable to a benefitted property qualifying under this paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B) may be excluded from the accumulated production expenditures of the unit of real property even though production continues on a common feature allocable to the unit. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B), production activity is considered to occur during any time which would not qualify as a cessation of production activities under the suspension period rules of § 1.263A-12(g).
(
2) Accumulated production expenditures.
If this paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B) applies, accumulated production expenditures attributable to the benefitted property of the unit of real property may be treated as not included in the accumulated production expenditures for the unit starting with the first measurement period beginning after the first day of the 120 consecutive day period, but must be included in the accumulated production expenditures for the unit beginning in the measurement period in which direct production activity has resumed on the benefitted property. Accumulated production expenditures with respect to common features allocable to the unit of real property may not be excluded under this paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B).
(iii)
Common feature placed in service before the end of production of a benefitted property.
To the extent that a common feature with respect to which all production activities to be undertaken by, or for, a taxpayer or a related person are completed is placed in service before the end of the production period of a unit that includes an allocable share of the costs of the common feature, the costs of the common feature are not treated as included in accumulated production expenditures of the unit for measurement periods beginning after the date the common feature is placed in service.
(iv)
Benefitted property sold before production completed on common feature.
If a unit of real property is sold before common features included in the unit are completed, the production period of the unit ends on the date of sale. Thus, common feature costs actually incurred and properly allocable to the unit as of the date of sale are excluded from accumulated production expenditures for measurement periods beginning after the date of sale. Common feature costs properly allocable to the unit and actually incurred after the sale are not taken into account in determining accumulated production expenditures.
(v)
Benefitted property placed in service before production completed on common feature.
Where production activities remain to be undertaken on a common feature allocable to a unit of real property that includes benefitted property, the costs of the benefitted property are not treated as included in the accumulated production expenditures for the unit for measurement periods beginning after the date the benefitted property is placed in service and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken by, or for, the taxpayer
or a related person with respect to the benefitted property are completed.
(6)
Examples.
The principles of paragraph (b) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
B, an individual, is in the trade or business of constructing custom-built houses for sale. B owns a 10-acre tract upon which B intends to build four houses on 2-acre lots. In addition, on the remaining 2 acres B plans to construct a perimeter road that benefits the four houses and is not held for the production of income separately from the sale of the houses. In 1995, B begins constructing the perimeter road and clears the land for one house. Under the principles of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each planned house (including attributable land) is part of a separate unit of real property (house unit). Under the principles of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the perimeter road (including attributable land) constitutes a common feature with respect to each planned house (i.e., benefitted property). In accordance with paragraph (b)(1), the production period for all four house units begins when production commences on the perimeter road in 1995. In addition, under the principles of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the accumulated production expenditures for the four house units include the allocable costs of the road. In addition, for the house with respect to which B has cleared the land, the accumulated production expenditures for the house unit include the land costs attributable to the house. See paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section. However, the accumulated production expenditures for each of the three house units that include a house for which B has not yet undertaken a direct production activity do not include the land costs attributable to the house. See paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as
Example 1,
except that B undertakes no further direct production activity with respect to the house for which the land was cleared for a period of at least 120 days but continues constructing the perimeter road during this period. In accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B) of this section, B may exclude the accumulated production expenditures attributable to the benefitted property from the accumulated production expenditures of the house unit starting with the first measurement period that begins after the first day of the 120 consecutive day period. B must include the accumulated production expenditures attributable to the benefitted property in the accumulated production expenditures for the house unit beginning with the measurement period in which direct production resumes on the benefitted property. The house unit will continue to include the accumulated production expenditures attributable to the perimeter road during the period in which direct production activity was suspended on the benefitted property.

# Example 3.
(i) D, a corporation, is in the trade or business of developing commercial real property. D owns a 20-acre tract upon which D intends to build a shopping center with 150 stores. D intends to lease the stores. D will also provide on the 20 acres a 1500-car parking lot, which is not held by D for the production of income separately from the stores in the shopping center. Additionally, D will not produce any other common features as part of the project. D intends to complete the shopping center in phases and expects that each store will be placed in service independently of any other store.
(ii) Under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, each store (including attributable land) is part of a separate unit of real property (store unit). The 1500-car parking lot is a common feature benefitting each store, and D must include an allocable share of the parking lots in each store unit. See paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(3). In accordance with paragraph (b)(5)(i), D includes in the accumulated production expenditures for each store unit during each store unit's production period: the costs capitalized with respect to the store (including attributable land costs in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section) and an allocable share of the parking lot costs (including attributable land costs in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section). Under paragraph (b)(4), the portion of the parking lot costs that is included in the accumulated production expenditures of a store unit is determined using a reasonable method of allocation.

# Example 4.
X, a real estate developer, begins a project to construct a condominium building and a convenience store for the benefit of the condominium. X intends to separately lease the convenience store. Because the convenience store is held for the production of income separately from the condominium units that it benefits, the convenience store is not a common feature with respect to the condominium building. Instead, the convenience store is a separate unit of property with a separate production period and for which a separate determination of accumulated production expenditures must be made.

# Example 5.
(i) In 1995, X, a real estate developer, begins a project consisting of a condominium building and a common swimming pool that is not held for the production of income separately from the condominium sales. The condominium building consists of 10 stories, and each story is occupied by a single condominium. Production of the swimming pool begins in January. No direct production activity is undertaken on any condominium until September, when direct
production activity commences on each condominium. On December 31, 1995, 1 condominium that was completed in December has been sold, 3 condominiums that were completed in December have not been sold, and 6 condominiums are only partially complete; additionally, the swimming pool is completed. X is a calendar year taxpayer that uses a full taxable year as the computation period, and quarterly measurement dates.
(ii) Under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, each condominium (including attributable land) is part of a separate unit of real property. Under the principles of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the swimming pool is a common feature with respect to each condominium and under paragraph (b)(4) of this section the cost of the swimming pool is allocated equally among the condominiums.
(iii) Under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the production period of each of the 10 condominium units begins in January when production of the swimming pool begins. On X's March 31, 1995, and June 30, 1995, measurement dates, the accumulated production expenditures for each condominium unit include the allocable costs of the swimming pool, but not the land costs attributable to the condominium because no direct production activity has been undertaken on the condominium. See paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. On X's September 30, 1995, and December 31, 1995, measurement dates, the accumulated production expenditures for each unit include the allocable costs of the swimming pool, and the costs of the condominium (including attributable land costs) because a direct production activity has commenced on the condominium. See paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section.
(iv) The production period for the condominium unit that includes the condominium that is sold as of the end of 1995 ends on the date the condominium is sold. See paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section. The production period of each unit that is ready to be held for sale ends when all production activities have been completed on the unit, in this case on December 31, 1995, the date that the swimming pool included in the unit is completed. See § 1.263A-12(d). Accordingly, interest capitalization ceases for each such unit that is sold or ready to be held for sale as of the end of 1995 (including each unit's allocable share of the completed swimming pool).
(v) The production periods for the condominium units that include the condominiums that are only partially complete at the end of 1995 continue after 1995. The accumulated production expenditures for each partially completed condominium unit continue to include the costs of the condominium (including attributable land costs) in addition to the costs of an allocable share of the completed swimming pool (including attributable land costs).

# Example 6.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 5,
except that the swimming pool is only partially complete as of the end of 1995. Under these facts, X capitalizes no interest during 1996 for the 1 unit that includes the condominium sold during 1995 (including the costs of the allocable share of the swimming pool). See paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section. However, with respect to the 6 condominiums that are partially complete and the 3 condominiums that are completed but unsold, interest capitalization continues after the end of 1995. The accumulated production expenditures for each of these 9 units include the costs of an allocable share of the swimming pool. See paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section. In determining the costs of an allocable share of the swimming pool included in the accumulated production expenditures for each of the 9 units, X includes all costs of the swimming pool properly allocable to each unit, including those cost incurred as of the date of the sale of unit 1 that may have been used under applicable administrative procedures (e.g., Rev. Proc. 92-29, 1992-1 C.B. 748) in determining the basis of unit 1 solely for purposes of computing gain or loss on the sale of unit 1. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter.

# Example 7.
(i) Assume the same facts as in
Example 5,
except that X intends to lease rather than sell the condominiums and the completed swimming pool is placed in service for depreciation purposes on December 31, 1995. Additionally, assume that all 10 condominiums are partially completed at the end of 1995.
(ii) Under these facts, because the swimming pool is a common feature that is placed in service separately from the condominiums that it benefits, under paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section, the accumulated production expenditures of each of the condominium units do not include the costs of the allocable share of the swimming pool after 1995.
(c)
Units of tangible personal property.
Components of tangible personal property are a single unit of property if the components are functionally interdependent. Components of tangible personal property that are produced by, or for, the taxpayer, for use by the taxpayer or a related person, are functionally interdependent if the placing in service of one component is dependent on the placing in service of the other component by the taxpayer or a related person. In the case of tangible personal property produced for sale, components of tangible personal property are functionally interdependent if they are customarily sold as a single unit. For example, if an aircraft manufacturer customarily sells completely assembled
aircraft, the unit of property includes all components of a completely assembled aircraft. If the manufacturer also customarily sells aircraft engines separately, any engines that are reasonably expected to be sold separately are treated as single units of property.
(d)
Treatment of installations.
If the taxpayer produces or is treated as producing any property that is installed on or in other property, the production activity and installation activity relating to each unit of property generally are not aggregated for purposes of this section. However, if the taxpayer is treated as producing and installing any property for use by the taxpayer or a related person or if the taxpayer enters into a contract requiring the taxpayer to install property for use by a customer, the production activity and installation activity are aggregated for purposes of this section.
[T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67207, Dec. 29, 1994; 60 FR 16574, 16575, Mar. 31, 1995]
§ 1.263A-11
Accumulated production expenditures.
(a)
General rule. Accumulated production expenditures
generally means the cumulative amount of direct and indirect costs described in section 263A(a) that are required to be capitalized with respect to the unit of property (as defined in § 1.263A-10), including interest capitalized in prior computation periods, plus the adjusted bases of any assets described in paragraph (d) of this section that are used to produce the unit of property during the period of their use. Accumulated production expenditures may also include the basis of any property received by the taxpayer in a nontaxable transaction.
(b)
When costs are first taken into account
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, costs are taken into account in the computation of accumulated production expenditures at the time and to the extent they would otherwise be taken into account under the taxpayer's method of accounting (e.g., after applying the requirements of section 461, including the economic performance requirement of section 461(h)). Costs that have been incurred and capitalized with respect to a unit of property prior to the beginning of the production period are taken into account as accumulated production expenditures beginning on the date on which the production period of the property begins (as defined in § 1.263A-12(c)). Thus, for example, the cost of raw land acquired for development, the cost of a leasehold in mineral properties acquired for development, and the capitalized cost of planning and design activities are taken into account as accumulated production expenditures beginning on the first day of the production period. For purposes of determining accumulated production expenditures on any measurement date during a computation period, the interest required to be capitalized for the computation period is deemed to be capitalized on the day immediately following the end of the computation period. For any subsequent measurement dates and computation periods, that interest is included in accumulated production expenditures. If the cost of land or common features is allocated among planned units of property that are completed in phases, any portion of the cost properly allocated to completed units is not reallocated to any incomplete units of property.
(2)
Dedication rule for materials and supplies.
The costs of raw materials, supplies, or similar items are taken into account as accumulated production expenditures when they are incurred and dedicated to production of a unit of property.
Dedicated
means the first date on which the raw materials, supplies, or similar items are specifically associated with the production of any unit of property, including by record, assignment to the specific job site, or physical incorporation. In contrast, in the case of a component or subassembly that is reasonably expected to be become a part of (e.g., be incorporated into) any unit of property, costs incurred (including dedicated raw materials) for the component or subassembly are taken into account as accumulated production expenditures during the production of any portion of the component or subassembly and prior to its connection with (e.g., incorporation into) any specific unit of property. For purposes of the preceding
sentence, components and subassemblies must be aggregated at each measurement date in a reasonable manner that is consistent with the purposes of section 263A(f).
(c)
Property produced under a contract
—(1)
Customer.
If a unit of property produced under a contract is designated property under § 1.263A-8(d)(2)(i) with respect to the customer, the customer's accumulated production expenditures include any payments under the contract that represent part of the purchase price of the unit of designated property or, to the extent costs are incurred earlier than payments are made (determined on a cumulative basis for each unit of designated property), any part of such price for which the requirements of section 461 have been satisfied. The customer has made a payment under this section if the transaction would be considered a payment by a taxpayer using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting. The customer's accumulated production expenditures also include any other costs incurred by the customer, such as interest, or any other direct or indirect costs that are required to be capitalized under section 263A(a) and the regulations thereunder with respect to the production of the unit of designated property.
(2)
Contractor.
If a unit of property produced under a contract is designated property under § 1.263A-8(d)(2)(ii) with respect to the contractor, the contractor must treat the cumulative amount of payments made by the customer under the contract attributable to the unit of property as a reduction in the contractor's accumulated production expenditures. The customer has made a payment under this section if the transaction would be considered a payment by a taxpayer using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting.
(d)
Property used to produce designated property
—(1)
In general.
Accumulated production expenditures include the adjusted bases (or portion thereof) of any equipment, facilities, or other similar assets, used in a reasonably proximate manner for the production of a unit of designated property during any measurement period in which the asset is so used. Examples of assets used in a reasonably proximate manner include machinery and equipment used directly or indirectly in the production process, such as assembly-line structures, cranes, bulldozers, and buildings. A taxpayer apportions the adjusted basis of an asset used in the production of more than one unit of designated property in a measurement period among such units of designated property using reasonable criteria corresponding to the use of the asset, such as machine hours, mileage, or units of production. If an asset used in a reasonably proximate manner for the production of a unit of designated property is temporarily idle (within the meaning of § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(iii)(E)) for an entire measurement period, the adjusted basis of the asset is excluded from the accumulated production expenditures for the unit during that measurement period. Notwithstanding this paragraph (d)(1), the portion of the depreciation allowance for equipment, facilities, or any other asset that is capitalized with respect to a unit of designated property in accordance with § 1.263A-1(e)(3)(ii)(I) is included in accumulated production expenditures without regard to the extent of use under this paragraph (d)(1) (i.e., without regard to whether the asset is used in a reasonably proximate manner for the production of the unit of designated property).
(2)
Example.
The following example illustrates how the basis of an asset is allocated on the basis of time:

# Example.
In 1995, X uses a bulldozer exclusively to clear the land on several adjacent real estate development projects, A, B, and C. A, B, and C are treated as separate units of property under the principles of § 1.263A-10. X decides to allocate the basis of the bulldozer among the three projects on the basis of time. At the end of the first quarter of 1995, the production period has commenced for all three projects. The bulldozer was operated for 30 hours on project A, 80 hours on project B, and 10 hours on project C, for a total of 120 hours for the entire period. For purposes of determining accumulated production expenditures as of the end of the first quarter,
1/4
of the adjusted basis of the bulldozer is allocated to project A,
2/3
to project B, and
1/12
to project C. Nonworking hours, regularly scheduled nonworking days, or other periods in which the bulldozer is temporarily idle (within the meaning of
§ 1.263A-1(e)(3)(iii)(E)) during the measurement period are not taken into account in allocating the basis of the bulldozer.
(3)
Excluded equipment and facilities.
The adjusted bases of equipment, facilities, or other assets that are not used in a reasonably proximate manner to produce a unit of property are not included in the computation of accumulated production expenditures. For example, the adjusted bases of equipment and facilities, including buildings and other structures, used in service departments performing administrative, purchasing, personnel, legal, accounting, or similar functions, are excluded from the computation of accumulated production expenditures under this paragraph (d)(3).
(e)
Improvements
—(1)
General rule.
If an improvement constitutes the production of designated property under $1.263A-8(d)(3), accumulated production expenditures with respect to the improvement consist of—
(i) All direct and indirect costs required to be capitalized with respect to the improvement,
(ii) In the case of an improvement to a unit of real property—
(A) An allocable portion of the cost of land, and
(B) For any measurement period, the adjusted basis of any existing structure, common feature, or other property that is not placed in service or must be temporarily withdrawn from service to complete the improvement (associated property) during any part of the measurement period if the associated property directly benefits the property being improved, the associated property directly benefits from the improvement, or the improvement was incurred by reason of the associated property. See, however, the de minimis rule under paragraph (e)(2) of this section that applies in the case of associated property.
(iii) In the case of an improvement to a unit of tangible personal property, the adjusted basis of the asset being improved if that asset either is not placed in service or must be temporarily withdrawn from service to complete the improvement.
(2)
De minimis rule.
For purposes of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, the total costs of all associated property for an improvement unit (associated property costs) are excluded from the accumulated production expenditures for the improvement unit during its production period if, on the date the production period of the unit begins, the taxpayer reasonably expects that at no time during the production period of the unit will the accumulated production expenditures for the unit, determined without regard to the associated property costs, exceed 5 percent of the associated property costs.
(f)
Mid-production purchases.
If a taxpayer purchases a unit of property for further production, the taxpayer's accumulated production expenditures include the full purchase price of the property plus, in accordance with the principles of paragraph (e) of this section, additional direct and indirect costs incurred by the taxpayer.
(g)
Related person costs.
The activities of a related person are taken into account in applying the classification thresholds under § 1.263A-8(b)(1)(ii)(B) and (C), and in determining the production period of a unit of designated property under § 1.263A-12. However, only those costs incurred by the taxpayer are taken into account in the taxpayer's accumulated production expenditures under this section because the related person includes its own capitalized costs in the related person's accumulated production expenditures with respect to any unit of designated property upon which the parties engage in mutual production activities. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the accumulated production expenditures of any property transferred to a taxpayer in a nontaxable transaction are treated as accumulated production expenditures incurred by the taxpayer.
(h)
Installation.
If the taxpayer installs property that is purchased by the taxpayer, accumulated production expenditures include the cost of the property that is installed in addition to the direct and indirect costs of installation.
[T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67210, Dec. 29, 1994; 60 FR 16575, Mar. 31, 1995]
§ 1.263A-12
Production period.
(a)
In general.
Capitalization of interest is required under § 1.263A-9 for computation periods (within the meaning
of § 1.263A-9(f)(1)) that include the production period of a unit of designated property. In contrast, section 263A(a) requires the capitalization of all other direct or indirect costs, such as insurance, taxes, and storage, that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the production of property without regard to whether they are incurred during a period in which production activity occurs.
(b)
Related person activities.
Activities performed and costs incurred by a person related to the taxpayer that directly benefit or are incurred by reason of the taxpayer's production of designated property are taken into account in determining the taxpayer's production period (regardless of whether the related person is performing only a service or is producing a subassembly or component that the related person is required to treat as an item of designated property). These activities and the related person's costs are also taken into account in determining whether tangible personal property produced by the taxpayer is 1-year or 2-year property under § 1.263A-8(b)(1)(ii) (B) and (C).
(c)
Beginning of production period
—(1)
In general.
A separate production period is determined for each unit of property defined in § 1.263A-10. The production period begins on the date that production of the unit of property begins.
(2)
Real property.
The production period of a unit of real property begins on the first date that any physical production activity (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section) is performed with respect to a unit of real property. See § 1.263A-10(b)(1). The production period of a unit of real property produced under a contract begins for the contractor on the date the contractor begins physical production activity on the property. The production period of a unit of real property produced under a contract begins for the customer on the date either the customer or the contractor begins physical production activity on the property.
(3)
Tangible personal property.
The production period of a unit of tangible personal property begins on the first date by which the taxpayer's accumulated production expenditures, including planning and design expenditures, are at least 5 percent of the taxpayer's total estimated accumulated production expenditures for the property unit. Thus, the beginning of the production period is determined without regard to whether physical production activity has commenced. The production period of a unit of tangible personal property produced under a contract begins for the contractor when the contractor's accumulated production expenditures, without any reduction for payments from the customer, are at least 5 percent of the contractor's total estimated accumulated production expenditures. The production period for a unit of tangible personal property produced under a contract begins for the customer when the customer's accumulated production expenditures are at least 5 percent of the customer's total estimated accumulated production expenditures.
(d)
End of production period
—(1)
In general.
The production period for a unit of property produced for self use ends on the date that the unit is placed in service and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken by, or for, the taxpayer or a related person are completed. The production period for a unit of property produced for sale ends on the date that the unit is ready to be held for sale and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken by, or for, the taxpayer or a related person are completed. See, however, § 1.263A-10(b)(5)(iv) providing an exception for common features in the case of a benefitted property that is sold. In the case of a unit of property produced under a contract, the production period for the customer ends when the property is placed in service by the customer and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken are complete (i.e., generally, no earlier than when the customer takes delivery). In the case of property that is customarily aged (such as tobacco, wine, or whiskey) before it is sold, the production period includes the aging period.
(2)
Special rules.
The production period does not end for a unit of property prior to the completion of physical production activities by the taxpayer even though the property is held for sale or
lease, since all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken by the taxpayer with respect to such property have not in fact been completed. See, however, § 1.263A-10(b)(5) regarding separation of certain common features.
(3)
Sequential production or delivery.
The production period ends with respect to each unit of property (as defined in § 1.263A-10) and its associated accumulated production expenditures as the unit of property is completed within the meaning of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, without regard to the production activities or costs of any other units of property. Thus, for example, in the case of separate apartments in a multi-unit building, each of which is a separate unit of property within the meaning of § 1.263A-10, the production period ends for each separate apartment when it is ready to be held for sale or placed in service within the meaning of paragraph (d)(1) of this section. In the case of a single unit of property that merely undergoes separate and distinct stages of production, the production period ends at the same time (i.e., when all separate stages of production are completed with respect to the entire amount of accumulated production expenditures for the property).
(4)
Examples.
The provisions of paragraph (d) of this section are illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
E is engaged in the original construction of a high-rise office building with two wings. At the end of 1995, Wing #1, but not Wing #2, is placed in service. Moreover, at the end of 1995, all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken on Wing #1 are completed. In accordance with § 1.263A-10(b)(1), Wing #1 and Wing #2 are separate units of designated property. E may stop capitalizing interest on Wing #1 but not on Wing #2.

# Example 2.
F is in the business of constructing finished houses. F generally paints and finishes the interior of the house, although this does not occur until a potential buyer is located. Because F reasonably expects to undertake production activity (painting and finishing), the production period of each house does not end until these activities are completed.
(e)
Physical production activities
—(1)
In general.
The term
physical production activities
includes any physical activity that constitutes production within the meaning of § 1.263A-8(d)(1). The production period begins and interest must be capitalized with respect to real property if any physical production activities are undertaken, whether alone or in preparation for the construction of buildings or other structures, or with respect to the improvement of existing structures. For example, the clearing of raw land constitutes the production of designated property, even if only cleared prior to resale.
(2)
Illustrations.
The following is a partial list of activities any one of which constitutes a physical production activity with respect to the production of real property:
(i) Clearing, grading, or excavating of raw land;
(ii) Demolishing a building or gutting a standing building;
(iii) Engaging in the construction of infrastructure, such as roads, sewers, sidewalks, cables, and wiring;
(iv) Undertaking structural, mechanical, or electrical activities with respect to a building or other structure; or
(v) Engaging in landscaping activities.
(f)
Activities not considered physical production.
The activities described in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section are not considered physical production activities:
(1)
Planning and design.
Soil testing, preparing architectural blueprints or models, or obtaining building permits.
(2)
Incidental repairs.
Physical activities of an incidental nature that may be treated as repairs under § 1.162-4.
(g)
Suspension of production period
—(1)
In general.
If production activities related to the production of a unit of designated property cease for at least 120 consecutive days (cessation period), a taxpayer may suspend the capitalization of interest with respect to the unit of designated property starting with the first measurement period that begins after the first day in which production ceases. The taxpayer must resume the capitalization of interest with respect to a unit beginning with the measurement period during which
production activities resume. In addition, production activities are not considered to have ceased if they cease because of circumstances inherent in the production process, such as normal adverse weather conditions, scheduled plant shutdowns, or delays due to design or construction flaws, the obtaining of a permit or license, or the settlement of groundfill to construct property. Interest incurred on debt that is traced debt with respect to a unit of designated property during the suspension period is subject to capitalization with respect to the production of other units of designated property as interest on nontraced debt. See § 1.263A-9(c)(5)(i) of this section. For applications of the avoided cost method after the end of the suspension period, the accumulated production expenditures for the unit include the balance of accumulated production expenditures as of the beginning of the suspension period, plus any additional capitalized costs incurred during the suspension period. No further suspension of interest capitalization may occur unless the requirements for a new suspension period are satisfied.
(2)
Special rule.
If a cessation period spans more than one taxable year, the taxpayer may suspend the capitalization of interest with respect to a unit beginning with the first measurement period of the taxable year in which the 120-day period is satisfied.
(3)
Method of accounting.
An election to suspend interest capitalization under paragraph (g)(1) of this section is a method of accounting that must be consistently applied to all units that satisfy the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section. However, the special rule in paragraph (g)(2) of this section is applied on an annual basis to all units of an electing taxpayer that satisfy the requirements of paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(4)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
(i) D, a calendar-year taxpayer, began production of a residential housing development on January 1, 1995. D, in applying the avoided cost method, chose a taxable year computation period and quarterly measurement dates. On April 10, 1995, all production activities ceased with respect to the units in the development until December 1, 1996. The cessation, which occurred for a period of at least 120 consecutive days, was not attributable to circumstances inherent in the production process. With respect to the units in the development, D incurred production expenditures of $2,000,000 from January 1, 1995 through April 10, 1995. D incurred interest of $100,000 on traced debt with respect to the units for the period beginning January 1, 1995, and ending June 30, 1995. D did not incur any production expenditures for the more than 20-month cessation beginning April 10, 1995, and ending December 1, 1996, but incurred $200,000 of production expenditures from December 1, 1996, through December 31, 1996.
(ii) D is required to capitalize the $100,000 interest on traced debt incurred during the two measurement periods beginning January 1, 1995, and ending June 30, 1995. Because D satisfied the 120-day rule under this paragraph (g), D is not required to capitalize interest with respect to the accumulated production expenditures for the units for the measurement period beginning July 1, 1995, and ending September 30, 1995, which is the first measurement period that begins after the date production activities cease. D is rquired to resume interest capitalization with respect to the $2,300,000 (2,000,000 + 100,000 + 200,000) of accumulated production expenditures for the units for the measurement period beginning October 1, 1996, and ending December 31, 1996 (the measurement period during which production activities resume). Accordingly, D may suspend the capitalization of interest with respect to the units from July 1, 1995, through September 30, 1996.
[T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67212, Dec. 29, 1994; 60 FR 16575, Mar. 31, 1995]
§ 1.263A-13
Oil and gas activities.
(a)
In general.
This section provides rules that are to be applied in tandem with §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-12, 1.263A-14, and 1.263A-15 in capitalizing interest with respect to the development (within the meaning of section 263A(g)) of oil or gas property. For this purpose, oil or gas property consists of each separate operating mineral interest in oil or gas as defined in section 614(a), or, if a taxpayer makes an election under section 614(b), the aggregate of two or more separate operating mineral interests in oil or gas as described in section 614(b) (section 614 property). Thus, an oil or gas property is designated property unless the de minimis rule applies. A taxpayer must apply the rules in paragraph (c) of this section if the taxpayer cannot establish, at the
beginning of the production period of the first well drilled on the property, a definite plan that identifies the number and location of other wells planned with respect to the property. If a taxpayer can establish such a plan at the beginning of the production period of the first well drilled on the property, the taxpayer may either apply the rules of paragraph (c) of this section or treat each of the planned wells as a separate unit and partition the leasehold acquisition costs and costs of common features based on the number of planned well units.
(b)
Generally applicable rules
—(1)
Beginning of production period
—(i)
Onshore activities.
In the case of onshore oil or gas development activities, the production period for a unit begins on the first date physical site preparation activities (such as building an access road, leveling a site for a drilling rig, or excavating a mud pit) are undertaken with respect to the unit.
(ii)
Offshore activities.
In the case of offshore development activities, the production period for a unit begins on the first date physical site preparation activities, other than activities undertaken with respect to expendable wells, are undertaken with respect to the unit. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the first physical site preparation activity undertaken with respect to a section 614 property is generally the first activity undertaken with respect to the anchoring of a platform (e.g., drilling to drive the piles). For purposes of this section, an expendable well is a well drilled solely to determine the location and delineation of offshore hydrocarbon deposits.
(2)
End of production period.
The production period ends for a productive well unit on the date the well is placed in service and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken by, or for, the taxpayer or a related person are completed. See § 1.263A-12(d).
(3)
Accumulated production expenditures
—(i)
Costs included.
Accumulated production expenditures for a well unit include the following costs (to the extent they are not intangible drilling and development costs allowable as a deduction under section 263(c), 263(i), or 291(b)(2)): the costs of acquiring the section 614 leasehold and the costs of taxes and similar items that are required to be capitalized under section 263A(a) with respect to the section 614 leasehold; the cost of real property associated with developing the section 614 property (e.g., casing); the basis of real property that constitutes a common feature within the meaning of § 1.263A-10(b)(3); and the adjusted basis of property used to produce property (such as a mobile rig, drilling ship, or an offshore drilling platform).
(ii)
Improvement unit.
To the extent section 614 costs are allocated to a well unit, the undepleted portion of those section 614 costs must also be included in the accumulated production expenditures for any improvement unit (within the meaning of § 1.263A-8(d)(3)) with respect to that well unit.
(c)
Special rules when definite plan not established
—(1)
In general.
The special rules of this paragraph (c) must be applied by a taxpayer that cannot establish, at the beginning of the production period of the first well drilled on the property, a definite plan that identifies the number and location of the wells planned with respect to the property. A taxpayer than can establish such a plan is permitted, but not required, to apply the rules of this paragraph (c), provided the rules of this paragraph (c) are consistently applied for all the taxpayer's oil or gas properties for which a definite plan can be established.
(2)
Oil and gas units
—(i)
First productive well unit.
Until the first productive well is placed in service and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken by, or for, the taxpayer or a related person are completed, a first productive well unit includes the section 614 property and all real property associated with the development of the section 614 property. Thus, for example, a first productive well unit includes the section 614 property and real property associated with any nonproductive well drilled on the section 614 property on or before the date the first productive well is placed in service and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken by, or for, the taxpayer or a related person are completed. For purposes of this section, a productive well is a well that produces in commercial quantities. See
paragraph (c)(5) of this section, which provides a special rule whereby the costs of a section 614 property and common feature costs for a section 614 property generally are included only in the accumulated production expenditures for the first productive well unit.
(ii)
Subsequent units.
Generally, real property associated with each productive or nonproductive well with respect to which production activities begin after the date the first productive well is placed in service and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken by, or for, the taxpayer or a related person are completed, constitutes a unit of real property. Additionally, a productive or nonproductive well that is included in a first productive well unit and for which development continues after the date the first productive well is placed in service and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken by, or for, the taxpayer or a related person are completed, generally is treated as a separate unit of property after that date. See, however, paragraph (c)(5) of this section, which provides rules for the treatment of costs included in the accumulated production expenditures of a first productive well unit.
(3)
Beginning of production period
—(i)
First productive well unit.
The beginning of the production period of the first productive well unit is determined as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii)
Subsequent wells.
In applying paragraph (b) of this section to subsequent well units (as described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section), any activities occurring prior to the date the production period ends for the first productive well unit are not taken into account in determining the beginning of the production period for the subsequent well units.
(4)
End of production period.
The end of the production period for both the first productive well unit and subsequent productive well units is determined as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. See § 1.263A-12(d). Nonproductive wells included in the first productive well unit need not be plugged and abandoned for the production period to end for a first productive well unit.
(5)
Accumulated production expenditures
—(i)
First productive well unit.
The accumulated production expenditures for a first productive well unit include all costs incurred with respect to the section 614 property and associated real property at any time through the end of the production period for the first productive well unit. Thus, the costs of acquiring the section 614 property, the costs of taxes and similar items that are required to be capitalized under section 263A(a) with respect to the section 614 property, and the costs of common features, that are incurred at any time through the end of the production period of the first productive well unit (section 614 costs) are included in the accumulated production expenditures for the first productive well unit.
(ii)
Subsequent well unit.
The accumulated production expenditures for a subsequent well do not include any costs included in the accumulated production expenditures for a first productive well unit. In the event that section 614 costs or common feature costs with respect to a section 614 property are incurred subsequent to the end of the production period of the first productive well unit, those common feature costs and undepleted section 614 costs are allocated among the accumulated production expenditures of wells being drilled as of the date such costs are incurred.
(6)
Allocation of interest capitalized with respect to first productive well unit.
Interest attributable to any productive or nonproductive well included in the first productive well unit (within the meaning of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section) is allocated among and capitalized to the basis of the property associated with the first productive well unit. See § 1.263A-8(a)(2).
(7)
Example.
The provisions of this paragraph (c) are illustrated by the following example.

# Example.
(i) Corporation Z, an oil company, acquired a section 614 property in an onshore tract, Tract B, for development. In 1995, Corporation Z began site preparation activities on Tract B and also commenced drilling Well 1 on Tract B. Corporation Z was unable to establish, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, a definite plan identifying the number and location of other wells planned on Tract B. In 1996, Corporation Z began drilling Well 2. On May 1, 1997, Well 2, a productive
well, was placed in service and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken with respect to Well 2 were completed. By that date, also, Well 1 was abandoned.
(ii) Well 2 is a first productive well (within the meaning of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section). Well 1 is a nonproductive well drilled prior to a first productive well. Under paragraph (c) of this section, Corporation Z must treat both Well 1 and Well 2 as part of the first productive well unit on the section 614 property. In accordance with paragraphs (c)(3) and (c)(4) of this section, the production period of the first productive well unit begins on the date physical site preparation activities are undertaken with respect to Well 1 in 1995 and ends on May 1, 1997, the date that Well 2 is placed in service and all production activities reasonably expected to be undertaken are completed. In accordance with paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the accumulated production expenditures for the first productive well unit include, among other capitalized costs, the entire section 614 property costs capitalized with respect to Tract B and all common feature costs incurred with respect to the section 614 property through May 1, 1997.
(iii) Any well that Corporation Z begins after May 1, 1997, is a separate unit of property. See paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. Under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the production period for any such well unit begins on the first day after May 1, 1997, on which Corporation Z undertakes physical site preparation activities with respect to the well unit. Moreover, Corporation Z does not include any of the section 614 property costs in the accumulated production expenditures for any well unit begun after May 1, 1997.
[T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67213, Dec. 29, 1994; 60 FR 16575, Mar. 31, 1995]
§ 1.263A-14
Rules for related persons.
Taxpayers must account for average excess expenditures allocated to related persons under applicable administrative pronouncements interpreting section 263A(f). See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter.
[T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67215, Dec. 29, 1994]
§ 1.263A-15
Effective dates, transitional rules, and anti-abuse rule.
(a)
Effective dates
—(1) Sections 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15 generally apply to interest incurred in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1995. In the case of property that is inventory in the hands of the taxpayer, however, these sections are effective for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1995. Changes in methods of accounting necessary as a result of the rules in §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15 must be made under the terms and conditions prescribed by the Commissioner. Under these terms and conditions, the principles of § 1.263A-7 must be applied in revaluing inventory property.
(2) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1995, taxpayers must take reasonable positions on their federal income tax returns when applying section 263A(f). For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), a reasonable position is a position consistent with the temporary regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, notices, and announcements concerning section 263A applicable in taxable years beginning before January 1, 1995. See § 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter. For this purpose, Notice 88-99, 1988-2 C.B. 422, applies to taxable years beginning after August 17, 1988, in the case of inventory, and to interest incurred in taxable years beginning after August 17, 1988, in all other cases. Finally, under administrative procedures issued by the Commissioner, taxpayers may elect early application of §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15 to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1994, in the case of inventory property, and to interest incurred in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1994, in the case of property that is not inventory in the hands of the taxpayer.
(3) Section 1.263A-9(a)(4)(ix) generally applies to interest incurred in taxable years beginning on or after May 20, 2004. In the case of property that is inventory in the hands of the taxpayer, § 1.263A-9(a)(4)(ix) applies to taxable years beginning on or after May 20, 2004. Taxpayers may elect to apply § 1.263A-9(a)(4)(ix) to interest incurred in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1995, or, in the case of property that is inventory in the hands of the taxpayer, to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1995. A change in a taxpayer's treatment of interest to a method consistent with § 1.263A-9(a)(4)(ix) is a change in method of accounting to which sections 446 and 481 apply.
(4) Section 1.263A-9(g)(1)(i) applies to taxable years beginning on or after November 13, 2020. However, taxpayers and their related parties, within the meaning of sections 267(b) and 707(b)(1), may choose to apply the rules of that section to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, so long as the taxpayers and their related parties consistently apply the rules of the section 163(j) regulations (as defined in § 1.163(j)-1(b)(37)), and, if applicable, §§ 1.381(c)(20)-1, 1.382-1, 1.382-2, 1.382-5, 1.382-6, 1.382-7, 1.383-0, 1.383-1, 1.469-9, 1.469-11, 1.704-1, 1.882-5, 1.1362-3, 1.1368-1, 1.1377-1, 1.1502-13, 1.1502-21, 1.1502-36, 1.1502-79, 1.1502-91 through 1.1502-99 (to the extent they effectuate the rules of §§ 1.382-2, 1.382-5, 1.382-6, and 1.383-1), and 1.1504-4, to that taxable year.
(5) The last sentence of each of § 1.263A-8(a)(1) and § 1.263A-9(e)(2) apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 5, 2021. However, for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 5, 2021, a taxpayer may apply the last sentence of each of § 1.263A-8(a)(1) and § 1.263A-9(e)(2), provided that the taxpayer follows all the applicable rules contained in the regulations under section 263A for such taxable year and all subsequent taxable years.
(b)
Transitional rule for accumulated production expenditures
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, costs incurred before the effective date of section 263A are included in accumulated production expenditures (within the meaning of § 1.263A-11) with respect to noninventory property only to the extent those costs were required to be capitalized under section 263 when incurred and would have been taken into account in determining the amount of interest required to be capitalized under former section 189 (relating to the capitalization of real property interest and taxes) or pursuant to an election that was in effect under section 266 (relating to the election to capitalize certain carrying charges).
(2)
Property used to produce designated property.
The basis of property acquired prior to 1987 and used to produce designated noninventory property after December 31, 1986, is included in accumulated production expenditures in accordance with § 1.263A-11(d) without regard to whether the basis would have been taken into account under former section 189 or section 266.
(c)
Anti-abuse rule.
The interest capitalization rules contained in §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15 must be applied by the taxpayer in a manner that is consistent with and reasonably carries out the purposes of section 263A(f). For example, in applying § 1.263A-10, regarding the definition of a unit of property, taxpayers may not divide a single unit of property to avoid property classifying the property as designated property. Similarly, taxpayers may not use loans in lieu of advance payments, tax-exempt parties, loan restructurings at measurement dates, or obligations bearing an unreasonably low rate of interest (even if such rate equals or exceeds the applicable Federal rate under section 1274(d)) to avoid the purposes of section 263A(f). For purposes of this paragraph (c), the presence of back-to-back loans with different rates of interest, and other uses of related parties to facilitate an avoidance of interest capitalization, evidences abuse. In such cases, the District Director may, based upon all the facts and circumstances, determine the amount of interest that must be capitalized in a manner that is consistent with and reasonably carries out the purposes of section 263A(f).
[T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67215, Dec. 29, 1994, as amended by T.D. 8728, 62 FR 42062, Aug. 5, 1997; T.D. 9179, 70 FR 8730, Feb. 23, 2005; T.D. 9905, 85 FR 56832, Sept. 14, 2020; 86 FR 32186, June 17, 2021]
§ 1.264-1
Premiums on life insurance taken out in a trade or business.
(a)
When premiums are not deductible.
Premiums paid by a taxpayer on a life insurance policy are not deductible from the taxpayer's gross income, even though they would otherwise be deductible as trade or business expenses, if they are paid on a life insurance policy covering the life of any officer or employee of the taxpayer, or any person (including the taxpayer) who is financially interested in any trade or business carried on by the taxpayer, when the taxpayer is directly or indirectly a beneficiary of the policy. For additional provisions relating to the nondeductibility of premiums paid on
life insurance policies (whether under section 162 or any other section of the Code), see section 262, relating to personal, living, and family expenses, and section 265, relating to expenses allocable to tax-exempt income.
(b)
When taxpayer is a beneficiary.
If a taxpayer takes out a policy for the purpose of protecting himself from loss in the event of the death of the insured, the taxpayer is considered a beneficiary directly or indirectly under the policy. However, if the taxpayer is not a beneficiary under the policy, the premiums so paid will not be disallowed as deductions merely because the taxpayer may derive a benefit from the increased efficiency of the officer or employee insured. See section 162 and the regulations thereunder. A taxpayer is considered a beneficiary under a policy where, for example, he, as a principal member of a partnership, takes out an insurance policy on his own life irrevocably designating his partner as the sole beneficiary in order to induce his partner to retain his investment in the partnership. Whether or not the taxpayer is a beneficiary under a policy, the proceeds of the policy paid by reason of the death of the insured may be excluded from gross income whether the beneficiary is an individual or a corporation, except in the case of (1) certain transferees, as provided in section 101(a)(2); (2) portions of amounts of life insurance proceeds received at a date later than death under the provisions of section 101(d); and (3) life insurance policy proceeds which are includible in the gross income of a husband or wife under section 71 (relating to alimony) or section 682 (relating to income of an estate or trust in case of divorce, etc.). (See section 101(e).) For further reference, see, generally, section 101 and the regulations thereunder.
§ 1.264-2
Single premium life insurance, endowment, or annuity contracts.
Amounts paid or accrued on indebtedness incurred or continued, directly or indirectly, to purchase or to continue in effect a single premium life insurance or endowment contract, or to purchase or to continue in effect a single premium annuity contract purchased (whether from the insurer, annuitant, or any other person) after March 1, 1954, are not deductible under section 163 or any other provision of chapter 1 of the Code. This prohibition applies even though the insurance is not on the life of the taxpayer and regardless of whether or not the taxpayer is the annuitant or payee of such annuity contract. A contract is considered a single premium life insurance, endowment, or annuity contract, for the purposes of this section, if substantially all the premiums on the contract are paid within four years from the date on which the contract was purchased, or if an amount is deposited after March 1, 1954, with the insurer for payment of a substantial number of future premiums on the contract.
§ 1.264-3
Effective date; taxable years ending after March 1, 1954, subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939.
Pursuant to section 7851(a)(1)(C), the regulations prescribed in § 1.264-2, to the extent that they relate to amounts paid or accrued on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry a single premium annuity contract purchased after March 1, 1954, and to the extent they consider a contract a single premium life insurance, endowment, or annuity contract if an amount is deposited after March 1, 1954, with the insurer for payment of a substantial number of future premiums on the contract, shall also apply to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1954, and ending after March 1, 1954, and to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1953, and ending after March 1, 1954, but before August 17, 1954, although such years are subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939.
§ 1.264-4
Other life insurance, endowment, or annuity contracts.
(a)
General rule.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, no deduction shall be allowed under section 163 or any other provision of chapter 1 of the Code for any amount (determined under paragraph (b) of this section) paid or accrued during the taxable year on indebtedness incurred or continued to
purchase or continue in effect a life insurance, endowment, or annuity contract (other than a single premium contract or a contract treated as a single premium contract) if such indebtedness is incurred pursuant to a plan of purchase which contemplates the systematic direct or indirect borrowing of part or all of the increases in the cash value of such contract (either from the insurer or otherwise). For the purposes of the preceding sentence, the term
of purchase
includes the payment of part or all of the premiums on a contract, and not merely payment of the premium due upon inital issuance of the contract. The rule of this paragraph applies whether or not the taxpayer is the insured, payee, or annuitant under the contract. the rule of this paragraph does not apply to contracts purchased by the taxpayer on or before August 6, 1963, even though there is a substantial increase in premiums after such date. The rule of this paragraph does not apply to any amount paid or accrued on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry a single premium life insurance, endowment, or annuity contract (including a contract treated as a single premium contract); the treatment of such amounts is governed by § 1.264-2.
(b)
Determination of amount not allowed.
The amount not allowed as a deduction under paragraph (a) of this section is determined with reference to the entire amount of borrowing to purchase or carry the contract, and is not limited with reference to the amount of borrowing of increases in the cash value. The rule of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
A, a calendar year taxpayer using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting, on January 1, 1964, purchases from a life insurance company a policy in the amount of $100,000 with an annual gross premium of $2,200. For the first policy year, A pays the annual premium by means other than by borrowing. For the second, third, fourth, and fifth policy years, A continues the policy in effect by incurring indebtedness pursuant to a plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. The years and amounts applicable to the policy are as follows:
Years
Cumulative cash value of contract
Total loan outstanding
Interest paid at 4.8 percent
1964
$370
0
0
1965
2,175
$2,200
$105.60
1966
4,000
4,400
211.20
1967
5,865
6,600
316.80
1968
7,745
8,800
422.40
On these facts (assuming that none of the exceptions contained in paragraph (d) of this section are applicable), no deduction is allowed for the interest paid during the year 1968. Moreover, the interest deduction will be disallowed for the taxable years 1965 through 1967 if such taxable years are not closed by reason of the statute of limitations or other rule of law.
(c)
Special rules.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Determination of existence of a plan which contemplates systematic borrowing
—(i)
In general.
The determination of whether indebtedness is incurred or continued pursuant to a plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section shall be made on the basis of all the facts and circumstances in each case. Unless the taxpayer shows otherwise, in the case of borrowing in connection with premiums for more than three years, the existence of a plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will be presumed. The mere fact that a taxpayer does not borrow to pay a premium in a particular year does not in and of itself preclude the existence of a plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. A plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section need not exist at the time the contract is entered into, but may come into existence at any time during the 7-year period following the taxpayer's purchase of the contract or following a substantial increase (referred to in paragraph (d)(1) of this section) in premiums on the contract.
(ii)
Premium attributable to more than one year.
For purposes of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, if the stated annual premiums due on a contract vary in amount, borrowing in connection with any premium, the amount of which exceeds the amount of any other premium, on such contract may be considered borrowing to pay premiums for
more than one year. The preceding sentence shall not apply where the borrowing is in connection with a substantially increased premium within the meaning of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(2)
Direct or indirect.
A plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section may contemplate direct or indirect borrowing of increases in cash value of the contract directly or indirectly to pay premiums and many contemplate borrowing either from an insurance carrier, from a bank, or from any other person. Thus, for example, if a taxpayer borrows $100,000 from a bank and uses the funds to purchase securities, later borrows $100,000 from a second bank and uses the funds to repay the first bank, later sells the securities and uses the funds as a part of a plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section to pay premiums on a contract of cash value life insurance, the deduction for interest paid in continuing the loan from the second bank shall not be allowed (assuming that none of the exceptions contained in paragraph (d) of this section are applicable). Moreover, a plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section need not involve a pledge of the contract, but may contemplate unsecured borrowing or the use of other property.
(d)
Exceptions.
No deduction shall be denied under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any amount paid or accrued during a taxable year on indebtedness incurred or continued as part of a plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section if any of the following exceptions apply.
(1)
The 7-year exception
—(i)
In general.
No part of 4 of the annual premiums due during the 7-year period (beginning with the date the first premium on the contract to which such plan relates was paid) is paid under such plan by means of indebtedness. For purposes of this exception, in the event of a substantial increase in any annual premium on a contract, a new 7-year period begins on the date such increased premium is paid. If premiums on a contract are payable other than on an annual basis (for example, monthly), the annual premium is the aggregate of premiums due for the year. See paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section for cases where one premium on a contract paid by means of indebtedness may be considered as more than one annual premium.
(ii)
Application of borrowings.
For purposes of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, if during a 7-year period referred to in such subdivision the taxpayer, directly or indirectly, borrows with respect to more than one annual premium on a contract, such borrowing shall be considered first attributable to the premium for the current policy year (within the meaning of subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph) and then attributable to premiums for prior policy years beginning with the most recent prior policy year (but not including any prior policy year to the extent that such taxpayer has indebtedness outstanding with respect to the premium for such prior policy year). If such borrowing exceeds the premiums paid for the current policy year and for prior policy years and the taxpayer has, with respect to the current policy year, deposited premiums in advance of the due date of such premiums, such excess borrowing shall be considered indebtedness incurred to carry the contract which is attributable to the premiums deposited for succeeding policy years beginning with the premium for the next succeeding policy year. The preceding sentence shall not apply to a single premium contract referred to in § 1.264-2.
(iii)
Current policy year.
For purposes of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, the term
current policy year
refers to the policy year which begins with or within the taxable year of the taxpayer.
(iv)
Illustrations.
The provisions of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A, a calendar year taxpayer using the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting, on January 1, 1964, purchases from a life insurance company a policy in the amount of $100,000 with an annual gross premium of $2,200. For the first four policy years, A initially pays the annual premium by means other than borrowing. On January 1, 1968, pursuant to a plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, A borrows $10,000 with respect to the policy. Such borrowing is considered first attributable to paying the premium for the year 1968 and
then attributable to paying the premiums for the years 1967, 1966, 1965, and 1964 (in part). No deduction is allowed for the interest paid by A on the $10,000 indebtedness during the year 1968.

# Example 2.
The facts are the same as in
Example 1,
except that on January 1, 1964, A pays the first annual premium and deposits an amount equal to the second and third annual premiums, all such amounts initially being paid or deposited by means other than borrowing. On January 1, 1965, A deposits an amount equal to the fourth, fifth, and sixth annual premiums, and borrows $4,400 pursuant to a plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. Such borrowing is considered attributable to the premiums paid for the policy years 1965 and 1964. On January 1, 1966, A deposits an amount equal to the seventh, eighth, and ninth annual premiums, and borrows $6,600 pursuant to such plan. Such borrowing is considered attributable to the premium paid for the policy year 1966 and deposited for the policy years 1967 and 1968. No deduction is allowed for interest paid by A on the $11,000 indebtedness during 1966. Moreover, the interest deduction will be disallowed for the taxable year 1965. However, if this contract is treated as a single premium contract under § 1.264-2 (by reason of deposit with the insurer of an amount for payment of a substantial number of future premiums), the deduction for interest on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry the contract would be denied without reference to this section.
(2)
The $100 exception.
The total amount paid or accrued during the taxable year by the taxpayer who has entered one or more plans referred to in paragraph (a) of this section for which (without regard to this subparagraph) no deduction would be allowable under paragraph (a) of this section does not exceed $100. Where the amount so paid or accrued during the taxable year exceeds $100, the entire amount shall be subject to the general rule of paragraph (a) of this section.
(3)
The unforeseen events exception.
The amount is paid or accrued by the taxpayer on indebtedness incurred because of an unforeseen substantial loss of such taxpayer's income or an unforeseen substantial increase in such taxpayer's financial obligations. A loss of income or increase in financial obligations is not unforeseen, within the meaning of this subparagraph, if at the time of the purchase of the contract such event was or could have been foreseen. College education expenses are foreseeable; however, if college expenses substantially increase, then to the extent that such increases are unforeseen, this exception will apply. This exception applies only if the plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this section arises because of the unforeseen event. Thus, for example, if a taxpayer or his family incur substantial unexpected medical expenses or the taxpayer is laid off from his job, and for that reason systematically borrows against the cash value of a previously purchased contract, the deduction for the interest paid on the loan will not be denied, whether or not the loan is used to pay a premium on the contract.
(4)
The trade or business exception.
The indebtedness is incurred by the taxpayer in connection with his trade or business. To be within this exception, the indebtedness must be incurred to finance business obligations rather than to finance cash value life insurance. Thus, if a taxpayer pledges a life insurance, endowment, or annuity contract as part of the collateral for a loan to finance the expansion of inventory or capital improvements for his business, no part of the deduction for interest on such loan will be denied under paragraph (a) of this section. Borrowing by a business taxpayer to finance business life insurance such as under so-called keyman, split dollar, or stock retirement plans is not considered to be incurred in connection with the taxpayer's trade or business within the meaning of this subparagraph. The determination of whether the indebtedness is incurred in connection with the taxpayer's trade or business, within the meaning of this exception, rather than to finance cash value life insurance shall be made on the basis of all the facts and circumstances. The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Corporation M each year borrows substantial sums to carry on its business. Corporation M agrees to provide a retirement plan for its employees and purchases level premium life insurance to fund its obligation under the plan. The mere fact that M Corporation purchases a cash value life insurance policy will not cause its deduction for interest paid on its normal indebtedness to be denied even though the policy is later used as part of the collateral for its normal indebtedness.

# Example 2.
Corporation R has $200,000 of bonds outstanding and purchases cash value life insurance policies on several of its key employees. Such purchase by R Corporation will not, of itself, cause its deduction for interest on its bonded indebtedness to be denied. If, however, the premiums on the life insurance policies are $10,000 each year, the cash value increases by $8,000 each year, and R Corporation increases its indebtedness by $10,000 each year, its deduction for interest on such indebtedness will not be allowed under the rule of paragraph (a) of this section. On the other hand, the absence of such a directly parallel increase will not of itself establish that the deduction for interest is allowable.
(e)
Applicability of section.
The rules of this section apply with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963, but only with respect to contracts purchased after August 6, 1963. With respect to contracts entered into on or before August 6, 1963, but purchased or acquired whether from the insurer, insured, or any other person (other than by gift, bequest, or inheritance, or in a transaction to which section 381(a) of the Code applies) after such date, the rules of this section apply after such purchase or acquisition.
[T.D. 6773, 29 FR 15751, Nov. 24, 1964]
§ 1.265-1
Expenses relating to tax-exempt income.
(a)
Nondeductibility of expenses allocable to exempt income.
(1) No amount shall be allowed as a deduction under any provision of the Code for any expense or amount which is otherwise allowable as a deduction and which is allocable to a class or classes of exempt income other than a class or classes of exempt interest income.
(2) No amount shall be allowed as a deduction under section 212 (relating to expenses for production of income) for any expense or amount which is otherwise allowable as a deduction and which is allocable to a class or classes of exempt interest income.
(b)
Exempt income and nonexempt income.
(1) As used in this section, the term
class of exempt income
means any class of income (whether or not any amount of income of such class is received or accrued) wholly exempt from the taxes imposed by Subtitle A of the Code. For purposes of this section, a class of income which is considered as wholly exempt from the taxes imposed by subtitle A includes any class of income which is:
(i) Wholly excluded from gross income under any provision of Subtitle A, or
(ii) Wholly exempt from the taxes imposed by Subtitle A under the provisions of any other law.
(2) As used in this section the term
nonexempt income
means any income which is required to be included in gross income.
(c)
Allocation of expenses to a class or classes of exempt income.
Expenses and amounts otherwise allowable which are directly allocable to any class or classes of exempt income shall be allocated thereto; and expenses and amounts directly allocable to any class or classes of nonexempt income shall be allocated thereto. If an expense or amount otherwise allowable is indirectly allocable to both a class of nonexempt income and a class of exempt income, a reasonable proportion thereof determined in the light of all the facts and circumstances in each case shall be allocated to each.
(d)
Statement of classes of exempt income; records.
(1) A taxpayer receiving any class of exempt income or holding any property or engaging in any activity the income from which is exempt shall submit with his return as a part thereof an itemized statement, in detail, showing (i) the amount of each class of exempt income, and (ii) the amount of expenses and amounts otherwise allowable allocated to each such class (the amount allocated by apportionment being shown separately) as required by paragraph (c) of this section. If an item is apportioned between a class of exempt income and a class of nonexempt income, the statement shall show the basis of the apportionment. Such statement shall also recite that each deduction claimed in the return is not in any way attributable to a class of exempt income.
(2) The taxpayer shall keep such records as will enable him to make the allocations required by this section. See section 6001 and the regulations thereunder.
§ 1.265-2
Interest relating to tax exempt income.
(a)
In general.
No amount shall be allowed as a deduction for interest on any indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry obligations, the interest on which is wholly exempt from tax under subtitle A of the Code, such as municipal bonds, Panama Canal loan 3-percent bonds, or obligations of the United States, the interest on which is wholly exempt from tax under Subtitle A, and which were issued after September 24, 1917, and not originally subscribed for by the taxpayer. Interest paid or accrued within the taxable year on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry (1) obligations of the United States issued after September 24, 1917, the interest on which is not wholly exempt from the taxes imposed under Subtitle A of the Code, or (2) obligations of the United States issued after September 24, 1917, and originally subscribed for by the taxpayer, the interest on which is wholly exempt from the taxes imposed by Subtitle A of the Code, is deductible. For rules as to the inclusion in gross income of interest on certain governmental obligations, see section 103 and the regulations thereunder.
(b)
Special rule for certain financial institutions.
(1) No deduction shall be disallowed, for taxable years ending after February 26, 1964, under section 265(2) for interest paid or accrued by a financial institution which is a face-amount certificate company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 and following) and which is subject to the banking laws of the State in which it is incorporated, on face-amount certificates (as defined in section 2(a)(15) of the Investment Company Act of 1940) issued by such institution and on amounts received for the purchase of such certificates to be issued by the institution, if the average amount of obligations, the interest on which is wholly exempt from the taxes imposed by Subtitle A of the Code, held by such institution during the taxable year, does not exceed 15 percent of the average amount of the total assets of such institution during such year. See subparagraph (3) of this paragraph for treatment of interest paid or accrued on face-amount certificates where the figure is in excess of 15 percent. Interest expense other than that paid or accrued on face-amount certificates or on amounts received for the purchase of such certificates does not come within the rules of this paragraph.
(2) This subparagraph is prescribed under the authority granted the Secretary or his delegate under section 265(2) to prescribe regulations governing the determination of the average amount of tax-exempt obligations and of the total assets held during an institution's taxable year. The average amount of tax-exempt obligations held during an institution's taxable year shall be the average of the amounts of tax-exempt obligations held at the end of each month ending within such taxable year. The average amount of total assets for a taxable year shall be the average of the total assets determined at the beginning and end of the institution's taxable year. If the Commissioner, however, determines that any such amount is not fairly representative of the average amount of tax-exempt obligations or total assets, as the case may be, held by such institution during such taxable year, then the Commissioner shall determine the amount which is fairly representative of the average amount of tax-exempt obligations or total assets, as the case may be. The percentage which the average amount of tax-exempt obligations is of the average amount of total assets is determined by dividing the average amount of tax-exempt obligations by the average amount of total assets, and multiplying by 100. The amount of tax-exempt obligations means that portion of the total assets of the institution which consists of obligations the interest on which is wholly exempt from tax under Subtitle A of the Code, and valued at their adjusted basis, appropriately adjusted for amortization of premium or discount. Total assets means the sum of the money, plus the aggregate of the adjusted basis of the property other than money held by the taxpayer in good faith for the purpose of the business. Such adjusted basis for any asset is its adjusted basis for determining gain upon sale or exchange for Federal income tax purposes.
(3) If the percentage computation required by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph results in a figure in excess of 15 percent for the taxable year, there is interest that does not come within the special rule for certain financial institutions contained in section 265(2). The amount of such interest is obtained by multiplying the total interest paid or accrued for the taxable year on face-amount certificates and on amounts received for the purchase of such certificates by the percentage figure equal to the excess of the percentage figure computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph over 15 percent. See paragraph (a) for the disallowance of interest on indebtedness incurred or continued to purchase or carry obligations the interest on which is wholly exempt from tax under Subtitle A of the Code.
(4) Every financial institution claiming the benefits of the special rule for certain financial institutions contained in section 265(2) shall file with its return for the taxable year:
(i) A statement showing that it is a face-amount certificate company registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 and following) and that it is subject to the banking laws of the State in which it is incorporated.
(ii) A detailed schedule showing the computation of the average amount of tax-exempt obligations, the average amount of total assets of such institutions, and the total amount of interest paid or accrued on face-amount certificates and on amounts received for the purchase of such certificates for the taxable year.
[T.D. 6927, 32 FR 13221, Sept. 19, 1967]
§ 1.265-3
Nondeductibility of interest relating to exempt-interest dividends.
(a)
In general.
No deduction is allowed to a shareholder of a regulated investment company for interest on indebtedness that relates to exempt-interest dividends distributed by the company to the shareholder during the shareholder's taxable year.
(b)
Interest relating to exempt-interest dividends.
(1) All or a portion of the interest on an indebtedness relates to exempt-interest dividends if the indebtedness is either incurred or continued to purchase or carry shares of stock of a regulated investment company that distributes exempt-interest dividends (as defined in section 852(b)(5) of the Code) to the holder of the shares during the shareholder's taxable year.
(2) To determine the amount of interest that relates to the exempt-interest dividends the total amount of interest paid or accrued on the indebtedness is multiplied by a fraction. The numerator of the fraction is the amount of exempt-interest dividends received by the shareholder. The denominator of the fraction is the sum of the exempt-interest dividends and taxable dividends received by the shareholder (excluding capital gain dividends received by the shareholder and capital gains required to be included in the shareholder's computation of long-term capital gains under section 852(b)(3)(D)).
[T.D. 7601, 44 FR 16013, Mar. 16, 1979]
§ 1.266-1
Taxes and carrying charges chargeable to capital account and treated as capital items.
(a)(1)
In general.
In accordance with section 266, items enumerated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be capitalized at the election of the taxpayer. Thus, taxes and carrying charges with respect to property of the type described in this section are chargeable to capital account at the election of the taxpayer, notwithstanding that they are otherwise expressly deductible under provisions of Subtitle A of the Code. No deduction is allowable for any items so treated.
(2) See §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15 for rules regarding the requirement to capitalize interest, that apply prior to the application of this section. After applying §§ 1.263A-8 through 1.263A-15, a taxpayer may elect to capitalize interest under section 266 with respect to designated property within the meaning of § 1.263A-8(b), provided a computation under any provision of the Internal Revenue Code is not thereby materially distorted, including computations relating to the source of deductions.
(b)
Taxes and carrying charges.
(1) The taxpayer may elect, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, to treat
the items enumerated in this subparagraph which are otherwise expressly deductible under the provisions of Subtitle A of the Code as chargeable to capital account either as a component of original cost or other basis, for the purposes of section 1012, or as an adjustment to basis, for the purposes of section 1016(a)(1). The items thus chargeable to capital account are:
(i) In the case of unimproved and unproductive real property: Annual taxes, interest on a mortgage, and other carrying charges.
(ii) In the case of real property, whether improved or unimproved and whether productive or unproductive:
(
a
) Interest on a loan (but not theoretical interest of a taxpayer using his own funds),
(
b
) Taxes of the owner of such real property measured by compensation paid to his employees,
(
c
) Taxes of such owner imposed on the purchase of materials, or on the storage, use, or other consumption of materials, and
(
d
) Other necessary expenditures,
paid or incurred for the development of the real property or for the construction of an improvement or additional improvement to such real property, up to the time the development or construction work has been completed. The development or construction work with respect to which such items are incurred may relate to unimproved and unproductive real estate whether the construction work will make the property productive of income subject to tax (as in the case of a factory) or not (as in the case of a personal residence), or may relate to property already improved or productive (as in the case of a plant addition or improvement, such as the construction of another floor on a factory or the installation of insulation therein).
(iii) In the case of personal property:
(
a
) Taxes of an employer measured by compensation for services rendered in transporting machinery or other fixed assets to the plant or installing them therein,
(
b
) Interest on a loan to purchase such property or to pay for transporting or installing the same, and
(
c
) Taxes of the owner thereof imposed on the purchase of such property or on the storage, use, or other consumption of such property,
paid or incurred up to the date of installation or the date when such property is first put into use by the taxpayer, whichever date is later.
(iv) Any other taxes and carrying charges with respect to property, otherwise deductible, which in the opinion of the Commissioner are, under sound accounting principles, chargeable to capital account.
(2) The sole effect of section 266 is to permit the items enumerated in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph to be chargeable to capital account notwithstanding that such items are otherwise expressly deductible under the provisions of Subtitle A of the Code. An item not otherwise deductible may not be capitalized under section 266.
(3) In the absence of a provision in this section for treating a given item as a capital item, this section has no effect on the treatment otherwise accorded such item. Thus, items which are otherwise deductible are deductible notwithstanding the provisions of this section, and items which are otherwise treated as capital items are to be so treated. Similarly, an item not otherwise deductible is not made deductible by this section. Nor is the absence of a provision in this section for treating a given item as a capital item to be construed as withdrawing or modifying the right now given to the taxpayer under any other provisions of subtitle A of the Code, or of the regulations thereunder, to elect to capitalize or to deduct a given item.
(c)
Election to charge taxes and carrying charges to capital account.
(1) If for any taxable year there are two or more items of the type described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, which relate to the same project to which the election is applicable, the taxpayer may elect to capitalize any one or more of such items even though he does not elect to capitalize the remaining items or to capitalize items of the same type relating to other projects. However, if expenditures for several items of the same type are incurred with respect to a single project, the election to capitalize must, if exercised, be exercised as to all items of that type. For purposes of this section,
a
project
means, in the case of items described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, a particular development of, or construction of an improvement to, real property, and in the case of items described in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the transportation and installation of machinery or other fixed assets.
(2)(i) An election with respect to an item described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section is effective only for the year for which it is made.
(ii) An election with respect to an item described in:
(
a
) Paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section is effective until the development or construction work described in that subdivision has been completed;
(
b
) Paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section is effective until the later of either the date of installation of the property described in that subdivision, or the date when such property is first put into use by the taxpayer;
(
c
) Paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section is effective as determined by the Commissioner.
Thus, an item chargeable to capital account under this section must continue to be capitalized for the entire period described in this subdivision applicable to such election although such period may consist of more than one taxable year.
(3) If the taxpayer elects to capitalize an item or items under this section, such election shall be exercised by filing with the original return for the year for which the election is made a statement indicating the item or items (whether with respect to the same project or to different projects) which the taxpayer elects to treat as chargeable to capital account. Elections filed for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1954, and for taxable years ending before August 17, 1954, under section 24(a)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, and the regulations thereunder, shall have the same effect as if they were filed under this section. See section 7807(b)(2).
(d) The following examples are illustrative of the application of the provisions of this section:

# Example 1.
In 1956 and 1957 A pays annual taxes and interest on a mortgage on a piece of real property. During 1956, the property is vacant and unproductive, but throughout 1957 A operates the property as a parking lot. A may capitalize the taxes and mortgage interest paid in 1956, but not the taxes and mortgage interest paid in 1957.

# Example 2.
In February 1957, B began the erection of an office building for himself. B in 1957, in connection with the erection of the building, paid $6,000 social security taxes, which in his 1957 return he elected to capitalize. B must continue to capitalize the social security taxes paid in connection with the erection of the building until its completion.

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in
Example 2
except that in November 1957, B also begins to build a hotel. In 1957 B pays $3,000 social security taxes in connection with the erection of the hotel. B's election to capitalize the social security taxes paid in erecting the office building started in February 1957 does not bind him to capitalize the social security taxes paid in erecting the hotel; he may deduct the $3,000 social security taxes paid in erecting the hotel.

# Example 4.
In 1957, M Corporation began the erection of a building for itself, which will take three years to complete. M Corporation in 1957 paid $4,000 social security taxes and $8,000 interest on a building loan in connection with this building. M Corporation may elect to capitalize the social security taxes although it deducts the interest charges.

# Example 5.
C purchases machinery in 1957 for use in his factory. He pays social security taxes on the labor for transportation and installation of the machinery, as well as interest on a loan to obtain funds to pay for the machinery and for transportation and installation costs. C may capitalize either the social security taxes or the interest, or both, up to the date of installation or until the machinery is first put into use by him, whichever date is later.
(e)
Allocation.
If any tax or carrying charge with respect to property is in part a type of item described in paragraph (b) of this section and in part a type of item or items with respect to which no election to treat as a capital item is given, a reasonable proportion of such tax or carrying charge, determined in the light of all the facts and circumstances in each case, shall be allocated to each item. The rule of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
N Corporation, the owner of a factory in New York on which a new addition is under construction, in 1957 pays its general manager, B, a salary of $10,000 and also pays a New York State unemployment insurance tax of $81 on B's salary. B spends nine-tenths of his time in the general business of the
firm and the remaining one-tenth in supervising the construction work. N Corporation treats as expenses $9,000 of B's salary, and charges the remaining $1,000 to capital account. N Corporation may elect to capitalize $8.10 of the $81 New York State unemployment insurance tax paid in 1957 since such tax is deductible under section 164.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11402, Nov. 26, 1960; 25 FR 14021, Dec. 31, 1960, as amended by T.D. 8584, 59 FR 67215, Dec. 29, 1994]
§ 1.267A-1
Disallowance of certain interest and royalty deductions.
(a)
Scope.
This section and §§ 1.267A-2 through 1.267A-5 provide rules regarding when a deduction for any interest or royalty paid or accrued is disallowed under section 267A. Section 1.267A-2 describes hybrid and branch arrangements. Section 1.267A-3 provides rules for determining income inclusions and provides that certain amounts are not amounts for which a deduction is disallowed. Section 1.267A-4 provides an imported mismatch rule. Section 1.267A-5 sets forth definitions and special rules that apply for purposes of section 267A. Section 1.267A-6 illustrates the application of section 267A through examples. Section 1.267A-7 provides applicability dates.
(b)
Disallowance of deduction.
This paragraph (b) sets forth the exclusive circumstances in which a deduction is disallowed under section 267A. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a specified party's deduction for any interest or royalty paid or accrued (the amount paid or accrued with respect to the specified party, a
specified payment
) is disallowed under section 267A to the extent that the specified payment is described in this paragraph (b).
See also
§ 1.267A-5(b)(5) (treating structured payments as interest paid or accrued for purposes of section 267A and the regulations in this part under section 267A). A specified payment is described in this paragraph (b) to the extent that it is—
(1) A disqualified hybrid amount, as described in § 1.267A-2 (hybrid and branch arrangements);
(2) A disqualified imported mismatch amount, as described in § 1.267A-4 (payments offset by a hybrid deduction); or
(3) A specified payment for which the requirements of the anti-avoidance rule of § 1.267A-5(b)(6) are satisfied.
(c)
De minimis exception.
Paragraph (b) of this section does not apply to a specified party for a taxable year in which the sum of the specified party's specified payments that but for this paragraph (c) would be described in paragraph (b) of this section is less than $50,000. For purposes of this paragraph (c), specified parties that are related (within the meaning of § 1.267A-5(a)(14)) are treated as a single specified party.
[T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19836, Apr. 8, 2020]
§ 1.267A-2
Hybrid and branch arrangements.
(a)
Payments pursuant to hybrid transactions
—(1)
In general.
If a specified payment is made pursuant to a hybrid transaction, then, subject to § 1.267A-3(b) (amounts included or includible in income), the payment is a disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that—
(i) A specified recipient of the payment does not include the payment in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a) (to such extent, a
no-inclusion
); and
(ii) The specified recipient's no-inclusion is a result of the payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(1)(ii), the specified recipient's no-inclusion is a result of the specified payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction to the extent that the no-inclusion would not occur were the specified recipient's tax law to treat the payment as interest or a royalty, as applicable. See § 1.267A-6(c)(1) and (2) for examples illustrating the application of paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Definition of hybrid transaction
—(i)
In general.
The term
hybrid transaction
means any transaction, series of transactions, agreement, or instrument one or more payments with respect to which are treated as interest or royalties for U.S. tax purposes but are not so treated for purposes of the tax law of a specified recipient of the payment. Examples of a hybrid transaction include an instrument a payment with respect to which is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes but, for purposes of a specified recipient's tax law, is treated as a distribution with respect to equity or a recovery of principal with respect to indebtedness.
(ii)
Special rules
—(A)
Long-term deferral.
A specified payment is deemed to be made pursuant to a hybrid transaction if the taxable year in which a specified recipient of the payment takes the payment into account in income under its tax law (or, based on all the facts and circumstances, is reasonably expected to take the payment into account in income under its tax law) ends more than 36 months after the end of the taxable year in which the specified party would be allowed a deduction for the payment under U.S. tax law. In addition, if the tax law of a specified recipient of the specified payment does not impose an income tax, then such tax law does not cause the payment to be deemed to be made pursuant to a hybrid transaction under this paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A). See § 1.267A-6(c)(8) for an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) in the context of the imported mismatch rule.
(B)
Royalties treated as payments in exchange for property under foreign law.
In the case of a specified payment that is a royalty for U.S. tax purposes and for purposes of the tax law of a specified recipient of the payment is consideration received in exchange for property, the tax law of the specified recipient is not treated as causing the payment to be made pursuant to a hybrid transaction.
(C)
Coordination with disregarded payment rule.
A specified payment is not considered made pursuant to a hybrid transaction if the payment is a disregarded payment, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(3)
Payments pursuant to securities lending transactions, sale-repurchase transactions, or similar transactions.
This paragraph (a)(3) applies if a specified payment is made pursuant to a repo transaction and is not regarded under a foreign tax law, but another amount connected to the payment (the
connected amount
) is regarded under such foreign tax law. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(3), a
repo transaction
means a transaction one or more payments with respect to which are treated as interest (as defined in § 1.267A-5(a)(12)) or a structured payment (as defined in § 1.267A-5(b)(5)(ii)) for U.S. tax purposes and that is a securities lending transaction or sale-repurchase transaction (including as described in § 1.861-2(a)(7)), or other similar transaction or series of related transactions in which legal title to property is transferred and the property (or similar property, such as securities of the same class and issue) is reacquired or expected to be reacquired. For example, this paragraph (a)(3) applies if a specified payment arising from characterizing a repo transaction of stock in accordance with its substance (that is, characterizing the specified payment as interest) is not regarded as such under a foreign tax law but an amount consistent with the form of the transaction (such as a dividend) is regarded under such foreign tax law. When this paragraph (a)(3) applies, the determination of the identity of a specified recipient of the specified payment under the foreign tax law is made with respect to the connected amount. In addition, if the specified recipient includes the connected amount in income (as determined under § 1.267A-3(a), by treating the connected amount as the specified payment), then the amount of the specified recipient's no-inclusion with respect to the specified payment is correspondingly reduced. Further, the principles of this paragraph (a)(3) apply to cases similar to repo transactions in which a foreign tax law does not characterize the transaction in accordance with its substance. See § 1.267A-6(c)(2) for an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (a)(3).
(4)
Payments pursuant to interest-free loans and similar arrangements.
In the case of a specified payment that is interest for U.S. tax purposes, the following special rules apply:
(i) The payment is deemed to be made pursuant to a hybrid transaction to the extent that—
(A) Under U.S. tax law, the payment is imputed (for example, under section 482 or 7872, including because the instrument pursuant to which it is made is indebtedness but the terms of the instrument provide for an interest rate equal to or less than the risk-free rate or the rate on sovereign debt with similar terms in the relevant foreign currency); and
(B) A tax resident or taxable branch to which the payment is made does not take the payment into account in income under its tax law because such tax law does not impute any interest. The rules of paragraph (b)(4) of this section apply for purposes of determining whether the specified payment is made indirectly to a tax resident or taxable branch.
(ii) A tax resident or taxable branch the tax law of which causes the payment to be deemed to be made pursuant to a hybrid transaction under paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section is deemed to be a specified recipient of the payment for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Disregarded payments
—(1)
In general.
Subject to § 1.267A-3(b) (amounts included or includible in income), the excess (if any) of the sum of a specified party's disregarded payments for a taxable year over its dual inclusion income for the taxable year is a disqualified hybrid amount. See § 1.267A-6(c)(3) and (4) for examples illustrating the application of paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Definition of disregarded payment
—(i)
In general.
The term
disregarded payment
means a specified payment to the extent that, under the tax law of a tax resident or taxable branch to which the payment is made, the payment is not regarded (for example, because under such tax law it is a payment involving a single taxpayer or members of a group) and, were the payment to be regarded (and treated as interest or a royalty, as applicable) under such tax law, the tax resident or taxable branch would include the payment in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a).
(ii)
Special rules
—(A)
Foreign consolidation and similar regimes.
A disregarded payment includes a specified payment that, under the tax law of a tax resident or taxable branch to which the payment is made, is a payment that gives rise to a deduction or similar offset allowed to the tax resident or taxable branch (or group of entities that include the tax resident or taxable branch) under a foreign consolidation, fiscal unity, group relief, loss sharing, or any similar regime.
(B)
Certain payments of a U.S. taxable branch.
In the case of a specified payment of a U.S. taxable branch, the payment is not a disregarded payment to the extent that under the tax law of the tax resident to which the payment is made the payment is otherwise taken into account. See paragraph (c)(2) of this section for an example of when an amount may be otherwise taken into account.
(C)
Coordination with other hybrid and branch arrangements.
A disregarded payment does not include a deemed branch payment described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a specified payment pursuant to a repo transaction or similar transaction described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, or a specified payment pursuant to an interest-free loan or similar transaction described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(3)
Definition of dual inclusion income
—(i)
In general.
With respect to a specified party, the term
dual inclusion income
means the excess, if any, of—
(A) The sum of the specified party's items of income or gain for U.S. tax purposes that are included in the specified party's income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a) (by treating the items of income or gain as the specified payment; and, in the case of a specified party that is a CFC, by treating U.S. tax law as the CFC's tax law), to the extent the items of income or gain are included in the income of the tax resident or taxable branch to which the disregarded payments are made, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a) (by treating the items of income or gain as the specified payment); over
(B) The sum of the specified party's items of deduction or loss for U.S. tax purposes (other than deductions for disregarded payments), to the extent the items of deduction or loss are allowable (or have been or will be allowable during a taxable year that ends no more than 36 months after the end of the specified party's taxable year) under the tax law of the tax resident or taxable branch to which the disregarded payments are made.
(ii)
Special rule for certain dividends.
An item of income or gain of a specified party that is included in the specified party's income but not included in the income of the tax resident or taxable branch to which the disregarded
payments are made is considered described in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(A) of this section to the extent that, under the tax resident's or taxable branch's tax law, the item is a dividend that would have been included in the income of the tax resident or taxable branch but for an exemption, exclusion, deduction, credit, or other similar relief particular to the item, provided that the party paying the item is not allowed a deduction or other tax benefit for it under its tax law. Similarly, an item of income or gain of a specified party that is included in the income of the tax resident or taxable branch to which the disregarded payments are made but not included in the specified party's income is considered described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section to the extent that, under U.S. tax law, the item is a dividend that would have been included in the income of the specified party but for a dividends received deduction with respect to the dividend (for example, a deduction under section 245A(a)), provided that the party paying the item is not allowed a deduction or other tax benefit for it under its tax law. See § 1.267A-6(c)(3)(iv) for an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii).
(4)
Payments made indirectly to a tax resident or taxable branch.
A specified payment made to an entity an interest of which is directly or indirectly (determined under the rules of section 958(a) without regard to whether an intermediate entity is foreign or domestic, or under substantially similar rules under a tax resident's or taxable branch's tax law) owned by a tax resident or taxable branch is considered made to the tax resident or taxable branch to the extent that, under the tax law of the tax resident or taxable branch, the entity to which the payment is made is fiscally transparent (and all intermediate entities, if any, are also fiscally transparent).
(c)
Deemed branch payments
—(1)
In general.
If a specified payment is a deemed branch payment, then the payment is a disqualified hybrid amount if the tax law of the home office provides an exclusion or exemption for income attributable to the branch. See § 1.267A-6(c)(4) for an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (c).
(2)
Definition of deemed branch payment.
The term
deemed branch payment
means, with respect to a U.S. taxable branch that is a U.S. permanent establishment of a treaty resident eligible for benefits under an income tax treaty between the United States and the treaty country, any amount of interest or royalties allowable as a deduction in computing the business profits of the U.S. permanent establishment, to the extent the amount is deemed paid to the home office (or other branch of the home office), is not regarded (or otherwise taken into account) under the home office's tax law (or the other branch's tax law), and, were the payment to be regarded (and treated as interest or a royalty, as applicable) under the home office's tax law (or other branch's tax law), the home office (or other branch) would include the payment in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a). An amount may be otherwise taken into account for purposes of this paragraph (c)(2) if, for example, under the home office's tax law a corresponding amount of interest or royalties is allocated and attributable to the U.S. permanent establishment and is therefore not deductible.
(d)
Payments to reverse hybrids
—(1)
In general.
If a specified payment is made to a reverse hybrid, then, subject to § 1.267A-3(b) (amounts included or includible in income), the payment is a disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that—
(i) An investor, the tax law of which treats the reverse hybrid as not fiscally transparent, does not include the payment in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a) (to such extent, a
no-inclusion
); and
(ii) The investor's no-inclusion is a result of the payment being made to the reverse hybrid. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(1)(ii), the investor's no-inclusion is a result of the specified payment being made to the reverse hybrid to the extent that the no-inclusion would not occur were the investor's tax
law to treat the reverse hybrid as fiscally transparent (and treat the payment as interest or a royalty, as applicable). See § 1.267A-6(c)(5) for an example illustrating the application of paragraph (d) of this section.
(2)
Definition of reverse hybrid.
The term
reverse hybrid
means an entity (regardless of whether domestic or foreign) that is fiscally transparent under the tax law of the country in which it is created, organized, or otherwise established but not fiscally transparent under the tax law of an investor of the entity.
(3)
Payments made indirectly to a reverse hybrid.
A specified payment made to an entity an interest of which is directly or indirectly (determined under the rules of section 958(a) without regard to whether an intermediate entity is foreign or domestic, or under substantially similar rules under a tax resident's or taxable branch's tax law) owned by a reverse hybrid is considered made to the reverse hybrid to the extent that, under the tax law of an investor of the reverse hybrid, the entity to which the payment is made is fiscally transparent (and all intermediate entities, if any, are also fiscally transparent).
(4)
Exception for inclusion by taxable branch in establishment country.
Paragraph (d)(1) of this section does not apply to a specified payment made to a reverse hybrid to the extent that a taxable branch located in the country in which the reverse hybrid is created, organized, or otherwise established (and the activities of which are carried on by one or more investors of the reverse hybrid) includes the payment in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a).
(e)
Branch mismatch payments
—(1)
In general.
If a specified payment is a branch mismatch payment, then, subject to § 1.267A-3(b) (amounts included or includible in income), the payment is a disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that—
(i) A home office, the tax law of which treats the payment as income attributable to a branch of the home office, does not include the payment in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a) (to such extent, a
no-inclusion
); and
(ii) The home office's no-inclusion is a result of the payment being a branch mismatch payment. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(1)(ii), the home office's no-inclusion is a result of the specified payment being a branch mismatch payment to the extent that the no-inclusion would not occur were the home office's tax law to treat the payment as income that is not attributable a branch of the home office (and treat the payment as interest or a royalty, as applicable). See § 1.267A-6(c)(6) for an example illustrating the application of paragraph (e) of this section.
(2)
Definition of branch mismatch payment.
The term
branch mismatch payment
means a specified payment for which the following requirements are satisfied:
(i) Under a home office's tax law, the payment is treated as income attributable to a branch of the home office; and
(ii) Either—
(A) The branch is not a taxable branch; or
(B) Under the branch's tax law, the payment is not treated as income attributable to the branch.
(f)
Relatedness or structured arrangement limitation.
A specified recipient, a tax resident or taxable branch to which a specified payment is made, an investor, or a home office is taken into account for purposes of paragraphs (a), (b), (d), and (e) of this section, respectively, only if the specified recipient, the tax resident or taxable branch, the investor, or the home office, as applicable, is related (as defined in § 1.267A-5(a)(14)) to the specified party or is a party to a structured arrangement (as defined in § 1.267A-5(a)(20)) pursuant to which the specified payment is made.
[T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19836, Apr. 8, 2020]
§ 1.267A-3
Income inclusions and amounts not treated as disqualified hybrid amounts.
(a)
Income inclusions
—(1)
General rule.
For purposes of section 267A, a tax resident or taxable branch includes in income a specified payment to the extent that, under the tax law of the tax resident or taxable branch—
(i) It takes the payment into account (or has taken the payment into account, or, based on all the facts and
circumstances, is reasonably expected to take the payment into account during a taxable year that ends no more than 36 months after the end of the specified party's taxable year) in its income or tax base at the full marginal rate imposed on ordinary income (or, if different, the full marginal rate imposed on interest or a royalty, as applicable); and
(ii) The payment is not reduced or offset by an exemption, exclusion, deduction, credit (other than for withholding tax imposed on the payment), or other similar relief particular to such type of payment. Examples of such reductions or offsets include a participation exemption, a dividends received deduction, a deduction or exclusion with respect to a particular category of income (such as income attributable to a branch, or royalties under a patent box regime), a credit for underlying taxes paid by a corporation from which a dividend is received, and a recovery of basis with respect to stock or a recovery of principal with respect to indebtedness. A specified payment is not considered reduced or offset by a deduction or other similar relief particular to the type of payment if it is offset by a generally applicable deduction or other tax attribute, such as a deduction for depreciation or a net operating loss. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(1)(ii), a deduction may be treated as being generally applicable even if it arises from a transaction related to the specified payment (for example, if the deduction and payment are in connection with a back-to-back financing arrangement).
(2)
Coordination with foreign hybrid mismatch rules.
Whether a tax resident or taxable branch includes in income a specified payment is determined without regard to any defensive or secondary rule contained in hybrid mismatch rules, if any, under the tax law of the tax resident or taxable branch. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), a defensive or secondary rule means a provision of hybrid mismatch rules that requires a tax resident or taxable branch to include an amount in income if a deduction for the amount is not disallowed under the payer's tax law. However, a defensive or secondary rule does not include a rule pursuant to which a participation exemption or similar relief particular to a dividend is inapplicable as to a dividend for which the payer is allowed a deduction or other tax benefit under its tax law. Thus, a defensive or secondary rule does not include a rule consistent with recommendation 2.1 in Chapter 2 of OECD/G-20,
Neutralising the Effects of Hybrid Mismatch Arrangements, Action 2: 2015 Final Report
(October 2015).
(3)
Inclusions with respect to reverse hybrids.
With respect to a tax resident or taxable branch that is an investor of a reverse hybrid, whether the investor includes in income a specified payment made to the reverse hybrid is determined without regard to a distribution from the reverse hybrid (or the right to a distribution from the reverse hybrid triggered by the payment). However, if the reverse hybrid distributes all of its income during a taxable year, then, for that year, the determination of whether an investor includes in income a specified payment made to the reverse hybrid is made with regard to one or more distributions from the reverse hybrid during the year, by treating a portion of the specified payment as relating to each distribution during the year. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(3), the portion of the specified payment that is considered to relate to a distribution is the lesser of—
(i) The specified payment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of the distribution and the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of distributions from the reverse hybrid during the taxable year; and
(ii) The amount of the distribution multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the specified payment and the denominator of which is the sum of all specified payments made to the reverse hybrid during the taxable year.
(4)
Inclusions with respect to certain payments pursuant to hybrid transactions.
This paragraph (a)(4) applies to a specified payment that is interest and that is made pursuant to a hybrid transaction, to the extent that, under the tax law of a specified recipient of the payment, the payment is a recovery of basis with respect to stock or a recovery of principal with respect to
indebtedness such that, but for this paragraph (a)(4), a no-inclusion would occur with respect to the specified recipient. In such a case, an amount that is a repayment of principal for U.S. tax purposes and that is or has been paid (or, based on all the facts and circumstances, is reasonably expected to be paid) by the specified party pursuant to the hybrid transaction (such amount, the
principal payment
) is, to the extent included in the income of the specified recipient, treated as correspondingly reducing the specified recipient's no-inclusion with respect to the specified payment. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(4), whether the specified recipient includes the principal payment in income is determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, by treating the principal payment as the specified payment and the taxable year period described in paragraph (a)(1) as being composed of taxable years of the specified recipient ending no more than 36 months after the end of the specified party's taxable year during which the specified payment is made (as opposed to, for example, being composed of taxable years of the specified recipient ending no more than 36 months after the end of the specified party's taxable year during which the principal payment is reasonably expected to be made). Moreover, once a principal payment reduces a no-inclusion with respect to a specified payment, it is not again taken into account for purposes of applying this paragraph (a)(4) to another specified payment. See § 1.267A-6(c)(1)(vi) for an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (a)(4).
(5)
Deemed full inclusions and de minimis inclusions.
A preferential rate, exemption, exclusion, deduction, credit, or similar relief particular to a type of payment that reduces or offsets 90 percent or more of the payment is considered to reduce or offset 100 percent of the payment. In addition, a preferential rate, exemption, exclusion, deduction, credit, or similar relief particular to a type of payment that reduces or offsets 10 percent or less of the payment is considered to reduce or offset none of the payment.
(b)
Certain amounts not treated as disqualified hybrid amounts to extent included or includible in income for U.S. tax purposes
—(1)
In general.
A specified payment, to the extent that but for this paragraph (b) it would be a disqualified hybrid amount (such amount, a
tentative disqualified hybrid amount
), is reduced under the rules of paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section, as applicable. The tentative disqualified hybrid amount, as reduced under such rules, is the disqualified hybrid amount. See § 1.267A-6(c)(3) and (7) for examples illustrating the application of paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Included in income of United States tax resident or U.S. taxable branch.
A tentative disqualified hybrid amount is reduced to the extent that a specified recipient that is a tax resident of the United States or a U.S. taxable branch takes the tentative disqualified hybrid amount into account in determining its gross income.
(3)
Includible in income under section 951(a)(1)(A).
A tentative disqualified hybrid amount is reduced to the extent that the tentative disqualified hybrid amount is received by a CFC and includible under section 951(a)(1)(A) (determined without regard to properly allocable deductions of the CFC, qualified deficits under section 952(c)(1)(B), and the earnings and profits limitation under § 1.952-1(c)) in the gross income of a United States shareholder of the CFC. However, if the United States shareholder is a domestic partnership, then the amount includible under section 951(a)(1)(A) in the gross income of the United States shareholder reduces the tentative disqualified hybrid amount only to the extent that a tax resident of the United States would take into account the amount.
(4)
Includible in income under section 951A(a).
A tentative disqualified hybrid amount is reduced to the extent that the tentative disqualified hybrid amount increases a United States shareholder's pro rata share of tested income (as determined under §§ 1.951A-1(d)(2) and 1.951A-2(b)(1)) with respect to a CFC, reduces the shareholder's pro rata share of tested loss (as determined under §§ 1.951A-1(d)(4) and 1.951A-2(b)(2)) of the CFC, or both. However, to the extent that a deduction for the tentative disqualified hybrid amount would be allowed to a tax resident of
the United States or a U.S. taxable branch, or would be allowed to a CFC but would be allocated and apportioned to gross income of the CFC that is gross income taken into account in determining subpart F income (as described in section 952) or gross income that is effectively connected (or treated as effectively connected) with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States (as described in § 1.882-4(a)(1)), the reduction provided under this paragraph (b)(4) is equal to the reduction that would be provided under this paragraph (b)(4) but for this sentence multiplied by the difference of 100 percent and the percentage described in section 250(a)(1)(B).
(5)
Includible in income under section 1293.
A tentative disqualified hybrid amount is reduced to the extent that the tentative disqualified hybrid amount is received by a qualified electing fund (as described in section 1295) and is includible under section 1293 in the gross income of a United States person that owns stock of that fund. However, if the United States person is a domestic partnership, then the amount includible under section 1293 in the gross income of the United States person reduces the tentative disqualified hybrid amount only to the extent that a tax resident of the United States would take into account the amount.
[T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19836, Apr. 8, 2020]
§ 1.267A-4
Disqualified imported mismatch amounts.
(a)
Disqualified imported mismatch amounts
—(1)
Rule.
An imported mismatch payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount to the extent that, under the set-off rules of paragraph (c) of this section, the income attributable to the payment is directly or indirectly offset by a hybrid deduction incurred by a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that is related to the imported mismatch payer (or that is a party to a structured arrangement pursuant to which the payment is made). See § 1.267A-6(c)(8) through (12) for examples illustrating the application of this section.
(2)
Definitions of certain terms.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section:
(i) A
foreign tax resident
means a tax resident that is not a tax resident of the United States.
(ii) A
foreign taxable branch
means a taxable branch that is not a U.S. taxable branch.
(iii) An
imported mismatch payee
means, with respect to an imported mismatch payment, a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that includes the payment in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a).
(iv) An
imported mismatch payer
means, with respect to an imported mismatch payment, the specified party.
(v) An
imported mismatch payment
means a specified payment to the extent that it is neither a disqualified hybrid amount nor included or includible in income in the United States. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(v), a specified payment is included or includible in income in the United States to the extent that, if the payment were a tentative disqualified hybrid amount (as described in § 1.267A-3(b)(1)), it would be reduced under the rules of § 1.267A-3(b)(2) through (5).
(b)
Hybrid deduction
—(1)
In general.
A
hybrid deduction
means any of the following:
(i) A deduction allowed to a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch under its tax law for an amount paid or accrued that is interest (including an amount that would be a structured payment under the principles of § 1.267A-5(b)(5)(ii)) or royalty under such tax law, to the extent that a deduction for the amount would be disallowed if such tax law contained rules substantially similar to those under §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-3 and 1.267A-5. Such a deduction is a hybrid deduction regardless of whether or how the amount giving rise to the deduction would be recognized under U.S. tax law.
(ii) A deduction allowed to a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch under its tax law with respect to equity (including deemed equity), such as a notional interest deduction (or similar deduction determined with respect to the foreign tax resident's or foreign taxable branch's equity). However, a
deduction allowed to a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch with respect to equity is a hybrid deduction only to the extent that an investor of the foreign tax resident, or the home office of the foreign taxable branch, would include the amount in income if, for purposes of the investor's or home office's tax law, the amount were interest paid by the foreign tax resident ratably (by value) with respect to the interests of the foreign tax resident, or interest paid by the foreign taxable branch to the home office. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(ii), the rules of § 1.267A-3(a) apply to determine the extent that an investor or home office would include an amount in income, by treating the amount as the specified payment.
(2)
Special rules
—(i)
Foreign tax law contains hybrid mismatch rules.
In the case of a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch the tax law of which contains hybrid mismatch rules, only the following deductions allowed to the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch under its tax law are hybrid deductions:
(A) A deduction described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, to the extent that the deduction would be disallowed if the foreign tax resident's or foreign taxable branch's tax law—
(
1
) Contained a rule substantially similar to § 1.267A-2(a)(4) (payments pursuant to interest-free loans and similar arrangements); or
(
2
) Did not permit an inclusion in income in a third country to discharge the application of its hybrid mismatch rules as to the amount giving rise to the deduction when the amount is not included in income in another country as a result of a hybrid or branch arrangement.
(B) A deduction described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section (deductions with respect to equity).
(ii)
Dual inclusion income used to determine hybrid deductions arising from deemed branch payments in certain cases.
In the case of a foreign taxable branch the tax law of which permits a loss of the foreign taxable branch to be shared with a tax resident or taxable branch (without regard to whether it is in fact so shared or whether there is a tax resident or taxable branch with which the loss can be shared), a deduction allowed to the foreign taxable branch for an amount that would be a deemed branch payment were such tax law to contain a provision substantially similar to § 1.267A-2(c) is a hybrid deduction to the extent of the excess (if any) of the sum of all such amounts over the foreign taxable branch's dual inclusion income (as determined under the principles of § 1.267A-2(b)(3)). The rule in this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) applies without regard to whether the tax law of the home office provides an exclusion or exemption for income attributable to the branch.
(iii)
Certain deductions are hybrid deductions only if allowed for an accounting period beginning on or after December 20, 2018.
A deduction described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section (deductions with respect to equity), or a deduction that would be disallowed if the foreign tax resident's or foreign taxable branch's tax law contained a rule substantially similar to § 1.267A-2(a)(4) (payments pursuant to interest-free loans and similar arrangements), is a hybrid deduction only if allowed for an accounting period beginning on or after December 20, 2018.
(iv)
Certain deductions of a CFC are not hybrid deductions.
A deduction that but for this paragraph (b)(2)(iv) would be a hybrid deduction is not a hybrid deduction to the extent that the amount paid or accrued giving rise to the deduction is—
(A) A disqualified hybrid amount (but subject to the special rule of paragraph (g) of this section); or
(B) Included or includible in income in the United States. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(B), an amount is included or includible in income in the United States to the extent that, if the amount were a tentative disqualified hybrid amount (as described in § 1.267A-3(b)(1)), it would be reduced under the rules of § 1.267A-3(b)(2) through (5).
(v)
Loss carryovers.
A hybrid deduction for a particular accounting period includes a loss carryover from another accounting period, but only to the extent that a hybrid deduction incurred in an accounting period ending on or after December 20, 2018, comprises the loss carryover.
(c)
Set-off rules
—(1)
In general.
In the order described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a hybrid deduction directly or indirectly offsets the income attributable to an imported mismatch payment to the extent that, under paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the payment directly or indirectly funds the hybrid deduction. The rules of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section are applied by taking into account the application of paragraph (c)(4) of this section (adjustments to ensure that amounts not taken into account more than once).
(2)
Ordering rules.
The following ordering rules apply for purposes of determining the extent that a hybrid deduction directly or indirectly offsets income attributable to imported mismatch payments.
(i) First, the hybrid deduction offsets income attributable to a factually-related imported mismatch payment that directly or indirectly funds the hybrid deduction. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(i), a
factually-related imported mismatch payment
means an imported mismatch payment that is made pursuant to a transaction, agreement, or instrument entered into pursuant to the same plan or series of related transactions that includes the transaction, agreement, or instrument pursuant to which the hybrid deduction is incurred, provided that a design of the plan or series of related transactions was for the hybrid deduction to offset income attributable to the payment (as determined under the principles of § 1.267A-5(a)(20)(i), by treating the offset as the “hybrid mismatch” described in § 1.267A-5(a)(20)(i)).
(ii) Second, to the extent remaining, the hybrid deduction offsets income attributable to an imported mismatch payment (other than a factually-related imported mismatch payment) that directly funds the hybrid deduction.
(iii) Third, to the extent remaining, the hybrid deduction offsets income attributable to an imported mismatch payment (other than a factually-related imported mismatch payment) that indirectly funds the hybrid deduction.
(3)
Funding rules.
The following funding rules apply for purposes of determining the extent that an imported mismatch payment directly or indirectly funds a hybrid deduction.
(i) The imported mismatch payment directly funds a hybrid deduction to the extent that the imported mismatch payee incurs the hybrid deduction.
(ii) The imported mismatch payment indirectly funds a hybrid deduction to the extent that the imported mismatch payee is allocated the hybrid deduction, and provided that the imported mismatch payee is related to the imported mismatch payer (or is a party to a structured arrangement pursuant to which the imported mismatch payment is made).
(iii) The imported mismatch payee is allocated a hybrid deduction to the extent that the imported mismatch payee directly or indirectly makes a funded taxable payment to the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that incurs the hybrid deduction.
(iv) An imported mismatch payee indirectly makes a funded taxable payment to the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that incurs a hybrid deduction to the extent that a chain of funded taxable payments connects the imported mismatch payee, each intermediary foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch, and the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that incurs the hybrid deduction, and provided that each intermediary foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch is related to the imported mismatch payer (or is a party to a structured arrangement pursuant to which the imported mismatch payment is made).
(v) The term
funded taxable payment
means an amount paid or accrued by a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch under its tax law (other than an amount that gives rise to a hybrid deduction), to the extent that—
(A) The amount is deductible (but, if such tax law contains hybrid mismatch rules, determined without regard to a provision substantially similar to this section);
(B) Another foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch includes the amount in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a) (by treating the amount as the specified payment); and
(C) The amount is neither a disqualified hybrid amount (but subject to the special rule of paragraph (g) of this section) nor included or includible in income in the United States. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3)(v)(C), an amount is included or includible in income in the United States to the extent that, if the amount were a tentative disqualified hybrid amount (as described in § 1.267A-3(b)(1)), it would be reduced under the rules of § 1.267A-3(b)(2) through (5).
(vi) If a deduction or loss that is not incurred by a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch is directly or indirectly made available to offset income of the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch under its tax law, then, for purposes of this paragraph (c), the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch to which the deduction or loss is made available and the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that incurs the deduction or loss are treated as a single foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch. For example, if a deduction or loss of one foreign tax resident is made available to offset income of another foreign tax resident under a tax consolidation, fiscal unity, group relief, loss sharing, or any similar regime, then the foreign tax residents are treated as a single foreign tax resident for purposes of this paragraph (c).
(vii) An imported mismatch payee that directly makes a funded taxable payment to the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that incurs a hybrid deduction is allocated the hybrid deduction before the hybrid deduction (to the extent remaining) is allocated to an imported mismatch payee that indirectly makes a funded taxable payment to the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that incurs the hybrid deduction.
(viii) An imported mismatch payee that, through a chain of funded taxable payments consisting of a particular number of funded taxable payments, indirectly makes a funded taxable payment to the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that incurs a hybrid deduction is allocated the hybrid deduction before the hybrid deduction (to the extent remaining) is allocated to an imported mismatch payee that, through a chain of funded taxable payments consisting of a greater number of funded taxable payments, indirectly makes a funded taxable payment to the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that incurs the hybrid deduction.
(4)
Adjustments to ensure amounts not taken into account more than once.
To the extent that the income attributable to an imported mismatch payment is directly or indirectly offset by a hybrid deduction, the imported mismatch payment, the hybrid deduction, and, if applicable, each funded taxable payment comprising the chain of funded taxable payments connecting the imported mismatch payee, each intermediary foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch, and the foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that incurs the hybrid deduction is correspondingly reduced; as a result, such amounts are not again taken into account under this section.
(d)
Calculations based on aggregate amounts during accounting period.
For purposes of this section, amounts are determined on an accounting period basis. Thus, for example, the amount of imported mismatch payments made by an imported mismatch payer to a particular imported mismatch payee is equal to the aggregate amount of all such payments made by the imported mismatch payer during the accounting period.
(e)
Pro rata adjustments.
Amounts are allocated on a pro rata basis if there would otherwise be more than one permissible manner in which to allocate the amounts. Thus, for example, if multiple imported mismatch payers make an imported mismatch payment to a single imported mismatch payee, the sum of such payments exceeds the hybrid deduction incurred by the imported mismatch payee, and the payments are not factually-related imported mismatch payments, then a pro rata portion of each imported mismatch payer's payment is considered to directly fund the hybrid deduction. See § 1.267A-6(c)(9) and (12) for examples illustrating the application of this paragraph (e).
(f)
Special rules regarding manner in which this section is applied
—(1)
Initial application of this section.
This section
is first applied without regard to paragraph (f)(2) of this section and by taking into account only the following hybrid deductions:
(i) A hybrid deduction described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, to the extent that—
(A) The deduction would be disallowed if the foreign tax resident's or foreign taxable branch's tax law contained a rule substantially similar to § 1.267A-2(a)(4) (payments pursuant to interest-free loans and similar arrangements); or
(B) The paid or accrued amount giving rise to the deduction is included in income in a third country but is not included in income in another country as a result of a hybrid or branch arrangement.
(ii) A hybrid deduction described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section (deductions with respect to equity).
(2)
Subsequent application of this section takes into account certain amounts deemed to be imported mismatch payments.
After this section is applied pursuant to the rules of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the section is then applied by taking into account only hybrid deductions other than those described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. In addition, when applying this section in the manner described in the previous sentence, for purposes of determining the extent to which the income attributable to an imported mismatch payment is directly or indirectly offset by a hybrid deduction, an amount paid or accrued by a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that is not a specified party is deemed to be an imported mismatch payment (and such foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch and a foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch that includes the amount in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a), by treating the amount as the specified payment, are deemed to be an imported mismatch payer and an imported mismatch payee, respectively) to the extent that—
(i) The tax law of such foreign tax resident or foreign taxable branch contains hybrid mismatch rules; and
(ii) The amount is subject to disallowance under a provision of the hybrid mismatch rules substantially similar to this section. See § 1.267A-6(c)(10) and (12) for examples illustrating the application of paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(g)
Special rule regarding extent to which a disqualified hybrid amount of a CFC prevents a hybrid deduction or a funded taxable payment.
A disqualified hybrid amount of a CFC is taken into account for purposes of paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) or (c)(3)(v)(C) of this section (certain deductions not hybrid deductions or funded taxable payments to the extent the amount giving rise to the deduction is a disqualified hybrid amount) only to the extent of the excess (if any) of the disqualified hybrid amount over the sum of the amounts described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section. See § 1.267A-6(c)(11) for an example illustrating the application of this paragraph (g).
(1) The disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that, if allowed as a deduction, it would be allocated and apportioned to residual CFC gross income (as described in § 1.951A-2(c)(5)(iii)(B)) of the CFC.
(2) The disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that, if allowed as a deduction, it would be allocated and apportioned (under the rules of section 954(b)(5)) to gross income that is taken into account in determining the CFC's subpart F income (as described in section 952 and § 1.952-1), multiplied by the difference of 100 percent and the percentage of stock (by value) of the CFC that, for purposes of sections 951 and 951A, is owned (within the meaning of section 958(a), and determined by treating a domestic partnership as foreign) by one or more tax residents of the United States that are United States shareholders of the CFC.
(3) The disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that, if allowed as a deduction, it would be allocated and apportioned (under the rules of § 1.951A-2(c)(3)) to gross tested income of the CFC (as described in section 951A(c)(2)(A) and § 1.951A-2(c)(1)), multiplied by the difference of 100 percent and the percentage of stock (by value) of the CFC that, for purposes of sections 951 and 951A, is owned (within the meaning of section 958(a), and determined by treating a domestic partnership as foreign) by one or more tax
residents of the United States that are United States shareholders of the CFC.
[T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19836, Apr. 8, 2020]
§ 1.267A-5
Definitions and special rules.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-7 the following definitions apply.
(1) The term
accounting period
means a taxable year, or a period of similar length over which, under a provision of hybrid mismatch rules substantially similar to § 1.267A-4, computations similar to those under § 1.267A-4 are made under a foreign tax law.
(2) The term
branch
means a taxable presence of a tax resident in a country other than its country of residence as determined under either the tax resident's tax law or such other country's tax law.
(3) The term
branch mismatch payment
has the meaning provided in § 1.267A-2(e)(2).
(4) The term
controlled foreign corporation
(or
CFC
) has the meaning provided in section 957.
(5) The term
deemed branch payment
has the meaning provided in § 1.267A-2(c)(2).
(6) The term
disregarded payment
has the meaning provided in § 1.267A-2(b)(2).
(7) The term
entity
means any person as described in section 7701(a)(1), including an entity that under §§ 301.7701-1 through 301.7701-3 of this chapter is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner, other than an individual.
(8) The term
fiscally transparent
means, with respect to an entity, fiscally transparent with respect to an item of income as determined under the principles of § 1.894-1(d)(3)(ii) and (iii), without regard to whether a tax resident (either the entity or interest holder in the entity) that derives the item of income is a resident of a country that has an income tax treaty with the United States. In addition, the following special rules apply with respect to an item of income received by an entity:
(i) The entity is fiscally transparent with respect to the item under the tax law of the country in which the entity is created, organized, or otherwise established if, under that tax law, the entity does not take the item into account in its income (without regard to whether such tax law requires an investor of the entity, wherever resident, to separately take into account on a current basis the investor's respective share of the item), and the effect under that tax law is that an investor of the entity is required to take the item into account in its income as if the item were realized directly from the source from which realized by the entity, whether or not distributed.
(ii) The entity is fiscally transparent with respect to the item under the tax law of an investor of the entity if, under that tax law, an investor of the entity takes the item into account in its income (without regard to whether such tax law requires the investor to separately take into account on a current basis the investor's respective share of the item) as if the item were realized directly from the source from which realized by the entity, whether or not distributed.
(iii) The entity is fiscally transparent with respect to the item under the tax law of the country in which the entity is created, organized, or otherwise established if—
(A) That tax law imposes a corporate income tax; and
(B) Under that tax law, neither the entity is required to take the item into account in its income nor an investor of the entity is required to take the item into account in its income as if the item were realized directly from the source from which realized by the entity, whether or not distributed.
(9) The term
home office
means a tax resident that has a branch.
(10) The term
hybrid mismatch rules
means rules, regulations, or other tax guidance substantially similar to section 267A, and includes rules the purpose of which is to neutralize the deduction/no-inclusion outcome of hybrid and branch mismatch arrangements. Examples of such rules would include rules based on, or substantially similar to, the recommendations contained in OECD/G-20,
Neutralising the Effects of Hybrid Mismatch Arrangements, Action 2: 2015 Final Report
(October 2015), and OECD/G-20,
Neutralising the Effects of Branch Mismatch Arrangements, Action 2: Inclusive Framework on BEPS
(July 2017).
(11) The term
hybrid transaction
has the meaning provided in § 1.267A-2(a)(2).
(12) The term
interest
means any amount described in paragraph (a)(12)(i) or (ii) of this section that is paid or accrued, or treated as paid or accrued, for the taxable year or that is otherwise designated as interest expense in paragraph (a)(12)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(i)
In general.
Interest is an amount paid, received, or accrued as compensation for the use or forbearance of money under the terms of an instrument or contractual arrangement, including a series of transactions, that is treated as a debt instrument for purposes of section 1275(a) and § 1.1275-1(d), and not treated as stock under § 1.385-3, or an amount that is treated as interest under other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) or the regulations in this part. Thus, interest includes, but is not limited to, the following—
(A) Original issue discount (OID);
(B) Qualified stated interest, as adjusted by the issuer for any bond issuance premium;
(C) OID on a synthetic debt instrument arising from an integrated transaction under § 1.1275-6;
(D) Repurchase premium to the extent deductible by the issuer under § 1.163-7(c);
(E) Deferred payments treated as interest under section 483;
(F) Amounts treated as interest under a section 467 rental agreement;
(G) Forgone interest under section 7872;
(H) De minimis OID taken into account by the issuer;
(I) Amounts paid in connection with a sale-repurchase agreement treated as indebtedness under Federal tax principles;
(J) Redeemable ground rent treated as interest under section 163(c); and
(K) Amounts treated as interest under section 636.
(ii)
Swaps with significant nonperiodic payments
—(A)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(12)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, a swap with significant nonperiodic payments is treated as two separate transactions consisting of an on-market, level payment swap and a loan. The loan must be accounted for by the parties to the contract independently of the swap. The time value component associated with the loan, determined in accordance with § 1.446-3(f)(2)(iii)(A), is recognized as interest expense to the payor.
(B)
Exception for cleared swaps.
Paragraph (a)(12)(ii)(A) of this section does not apply to a cleared swap. The term
cleared swap
means a swap that is cleared by a derivatives clearing organization, as such term is defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), or by a clearing agency, as such term is defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c), that is registered as a derivatives clearing organization under the Commodity Exchange Act or as a clearing agency under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, respectively, if the derivatives clearing organization or clearing agency requires the parties to the swap to post and collect margin or collateral.
(C)
Exception for non-cleared swaps subject to margin or collateral requirements.
Paragraph (a)(12)(ii)(A) of this section does not apply to a non-cleared swap that requires the parties to meet the margin or collateral requirements of a Federal regulator or that provides for margin or collateral requirements that are substantially similar to a cleared swap or a non-cleared swap subject to the margin or collateral requirements of a Federal regulator. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(12)(ii)(C), the term
Federal regulator
means the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), or a prudential regulator, as defined in section 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), as amended by section 721 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, Title VII.
(13) The term
investor
means, with respect to an entity, any tax resident or taxable branch that directly or indirectly (determined under the rules of section 958(a) without regard to whether an intermediate entity is foreign or domestic, or under substantially similar rules under a tax resident's or taxable branch's tax law) owns an interest in the entity.
(14) The term
related
has the meaning provided in this paragraph (a)(14). A tax resident or taxable branch is related to a specified party if the tax resident or taxable branch is a related person within the meaning of section 954(d)(3), determined by treating the specified party as the “controlled foreign corporation” referred to in section 954(d)(3) and the tax resident or taxable branch as the “person” referred to in section 954(d)(3). In addition, for the purposes of this paragraph (a)(14), a tax resident that under §§ 301.7701-1 through 301.7701-3 of this chapter is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. tax purposes, as well as a taxable branch, is treated as a corporation.
See also
§ 1.954-1(f)(2)(iv)(B)(
1
) (neither section 318(a)(3), nor § 1.958-2(d) or the principles thereof, applies to attribute stock or other interests).
(15) The term
reverse hybrid
has the meaning provided in § 1.267A-2(d)(2).
(16) The term
royalty
includes amounts paid or accrued as consideration for the use of, or the right to use—
(i) Any copyright, including any copyright of any literary, artistic, scientific or other work (including cinematographic films and software);
(ii) Any patent, trademark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, or other similar property (including goodwill); or
(iii) Any information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience, but does not include—
(A) Amounts paid or accrued for after-sales services;
(B) Amounts paid or accrued for services rendered by a seller to the purchaser under a warranty;
(C) Amounts paid or accrued for pure technical assistance; or
(D) Amounts paid or accrued for an opinion given by an engineer, lawyer or accountant.
(17) The term
specified party
means a tax resident of the United States, a CFC (other than a CFC with respect to which there is not a tax resident of the United States that, for purposes of sections 951 and 951A, owns (within the meaning of section 958(a), and determined by treating a domestic partnership as foreign) at least ten percent (by vote or value) of the stock of the CFC), and a U.S. taxable branch. Thus, an entity that is fiscally transparent for U.S. tax purposes is not a specified party, though an owner of the entity may be a specified party. For example, in the case of a payment by a partnership, a domestic corporation that is a partner of the partnership is a specified party and a deduction for its allocable share of the payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A.
(18) The term
specified payment
has the meaning provided in § 1.267A-1(b).
(19) The term
specified recipient
means, with respect to a specified payment, any tax resident that derives the payment under its tax law or any taxable branch to which the payment is attributable under its tax law (or any tax resident that, based on all the facts and circumstances, is reasonably expected to derive the payment under its tax law, or any taxable branch to which, based on all the facts and circumstances, the payment is reasonably expected to be attributable under its tax law). The principles of § 1.894-1(d)(1) apply for purposes of determining whether a tax resident derives (or is reasonably expected to derive) a specified payment under its tax law, without regard to whether the tax resident is a resident of a country that has an income tax treaty with the United States. There may be more than one specified recipient with respect to a specified payment.
(20) The terms
structured arrangement
and
party to a structured arrangement
have the meaning set forth in this paragraph (a)(20).
(i)
Structured arrangement.
A structured arrangement means an arrangement with respect to which one or more specified payments would be a disqualified hybrid amount (or a disqualified imported mismatch amount) without regard to the relatedness limitation in § 1.267A-2(f) (or without regard to the phrase “that is related to the specified party” in § 1.267A-4(a)) (either such outcome, a
hybrid mismatch
), provided that, based on all the facts and circumstances (including the terms of the arrangement), the arrangement is designed to produce the hybrid mismatch. Facts and circumstances that indicate the arrangement is designed
to produce the hybrid mismatch include the following:
(A) The hybrid mismatch is priced into the terms of the arrangement, including—
(
1
) The pricing of the arrangement is different from what the pricing would have been absent the hybrid mismatch;
(
2
) Features that alter the terms of the arrangement, including its return if the hybrid mismatch is no longer available; or
(
3
) A below-market return absent the tax effects or benefits resulting from the hybrid mismatch.
(B) The arrangement is marketed as tax-advantaged where some or all of the tax advantage derives from the hybrid mismatch.
(C) The arrangement is marketed to tax residents of a country the tax law of which enables the hybrid mismatch.
(ii)
Party to a structured arrangement.
A party to a structured arrangement means a tax resident, a taxable branch, or an entity that participates in the structured arrangement. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(20)(ii), in the case of an entity, the entity's participation in a structured arrangement is imputed to its investors. However, a tax resident, a taxable branch or an entity (the
relevant party
) is considered to participate in the structured arrangement only if—
(A) The relevant party (or a related tax resident or taxable branch, determined under paragraph (a)(14) of this section by treating the relevant party as a specified party) could, based on all the facts and circumstances, reasonably be expected to be aware of the hybrid mismatch; and
(B) The relevant party or one or more of its investors (or a related tax resident or taxable branch, determined under paragraph (a)(14) of this section by treating the relevant party or an investor as a specified party) shares in the value of the tax benefit resulting from the hybrid mismatch.
(21) The term
tax law
of a country includes statutes, regulations, administrative or judicial rulings, and income tax treaties of the country. If a country has an income tax treaty with the United States that applies to taxes imposed by a political subdivision or other local authority of that country, then the tax law of the political subdivision or other local authority is deemed to be a tax law of a country. When used with respect to a tax resident or branch, tax law refers to—
(i) In the case of a tax resident, the tax law of the country or countries where the tax resident is resident; and
(ii) In the case of a branch, the tax law of the country where the branch is located.
(22) The term
taxable branch
means a branch that has a taxable presence under its tax law.
(23) The term
tax resident
means either of the following:
(i) A body corporate or other entity or body of persons liable to tax under the tax law of a country as a resident. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(23)(i), an entity that is created, organized, or otherwise established under the tax law of a country that does not impose a corporate income tax is treated as liable to tax under the tax law of such country as a resident if under the corporate or commercial laws of such country the entity is treated as a body corporate or a company. A body corporate or other entity or body of persons may be a tax resident of more than one country.
(ii) An individual liable to tax under the tax law of a country as a resident. An individual may be a tax resident of more than one country.
(24) The term
United States shareholder
has the meaning provided in section 951(b).
(25) The term
U.S. taxable branch
means a trade or business carried on in the United States by a tax resident of another country, except that if an income tax treaty applies, the term means a permanent establishment of a tax treaty resident eligible for benefits under an income tax treaty between the United States and the treaty country. Thus, for example, a U.S. taxable branch includes a U.S. trade or business of a foreign corporation taxable under section 882(a) or a U.S. permanent establishment of a tax treaty resident.
(b)
Special rules.
For purposes of §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-7, the following special rules apply.
(1)
Coordination with other provisions
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in
paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, a specified payment is subject to section 267A after the application of any other applicable provisions of the Code and regulations in this part. Thus, the determination of whether a deduction for a specified payment is disallowed under section 267A is made with respect to the taxable year for which a deduction for the payment would otherwise be allowed for U.S. tax purposes.
See, for example,
sections 163(e)(3) and 267(a)(3) for rules that may defer the taxable year for which a deduction is allowed.
See also
§ 1.882-5(a)(5) (providing that provisions that disallow interest expense apply after the application of § 1.882-5). In addition, provisions that characterize amounts paid or accrued as something other than interest or royalties, such as § 1.894-1(d)(2), govern the treatment of such amounts and therefore such amounts would not be treated as specified payments. Moreover, to the extent that a specified payment is not described in § 1.267A-1(b) when it is subject to section 267A, the payment is not again subject to section 267A at a later time. For example, if for the taxable year in which a specified payment is paid the payment is not described in § 1.267A-1(b) but under section 163(j) a deduction for the payment is deferred, the payment is not again subject to section 267A in the taxable year for which section 163(j) no longer defers the deduction.
(ii)
Section 267A applied before certain provisions.
In addition to the extent provided in any other applicable provision of the Code or regulations in this part, section 267A applies before the application of sections 163(j), 461(l), 465, and 469.
(iii)
Coordination with capitalization and recovery provisions.
To the extent a specified payment is described in § 1.267A-1(b), a deduction for the payment is considered permanently disallowed for all purposes of the Code and regulations in this part and, therefore, the payment is not taken into account for purposes of computing costs that are required to be capitalized and recovered through depreciation, amortization, cost of goods sold, adjustment to basis, or similar forms of recovery under any applicable provision of the Code or in regulations in this part. Thus, for example, to the extent an interest or royalty payment is a specified payment described in § 1.267A-1(b), the payment is not capitalized and included in inventory cost or added to basis under section 263A. As an additional example, to the extent that a debt issuance cost is a specified payment described in § 1.267A-1(b), it is neither capitalized under section 263 or the regulations in this part under section 263 nor recoverable under § 1.446-5.
(iv)
Specified payments arising in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2018.
Section 267A does not apply to a specified payment that is paid or accrued in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2018, regardless of whether under a provision of the Code or regulations in this part (for example, section 267(a)(3)) a deduction for the payment is deferred to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, or whether the payment is carried over to another taxable year and under another provision of the Code (for example, section 163(j)) is considered paid or accrued in such taxable year.
(2)
Foreign currency gain or loss.
Except as set forth in this paragraph (b)(2), section 988 gain or loss is not taken into account under section 267A. Foreign currency gain or loss recognized with respect to a specified payment is taken into account under section 267A to the extent that a deduction for the specified payment is disallowed under section 267A, provided that the foreign currency gain or loss is described in § 1.988-2(b)(4) (relating to exchange gain or loss recognized by the issuer of a debt instrument with respect to accrued interest) or § 1.988-2(c) (relating to items of expense or gross income or receipts which are to be paid after the date accrued). If a deduction for a specified payment is disallowed under section 267A, then a proportionate amount of foreign currency loss under section 988 with respect to the specified payment is also disallowed, and a proportionate amount of foreign currency gain under section 988 with respect to the specified payment reduces the amount of the disallowance. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), the proportionate amount is the amount of the foreign currency gain or loss under section 988 with respect to
the specified payment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of the specified payment for which a deduction is disallowed under section 267A and the denominator of which is the total amount of the specified payment.
(3)
U.S. taxable branch payments
—(i)
Amounts considered paid or accrued by a U.S. taxable branch.
For purposes of section 267A, a U.S. taxable branch is considered to pay or accrue an amount of interest or royalty equal to either—
(A) The amount of interest or royalty allocable to effectively connected income of the U.S. taxable branch under section 873(a) or 882(c)(1), as applicable; or
(B) In the case of a U.S. taxable branch that is a U.S. permanent establishment of a treaty resident eligible for benefits under an income tax treaty between the United States and the treaty country, the amount of interest or royalty allowable in computing the business profits attributable to the U.S. permanent establishment.
(ii)
Treatment of U.S. taxable branch payments
—(A)
Interest.
Interest considered paid or accrued by a U.S. taxable branch of a foreign corporation under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section (the “U.S. taxable branch interest payment”) is treated as a payment directly to the person to which the interest is payable, to the extent it is paid or accrued with respect to a liability described in § 1.882-5(a)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) (resulting in directly allocable interest) or with respect to a U.S. booked liability, as described in § 1.882-5(d)(2). If the U.S. taxable branch interest payment exceeds in the aggregate the interest paid or accrued on the U.S. taxable branch's directly allocable interest and interest paid or accrued on U.S. booked liabilities, the excess amount is treated as paid or accrued by the U.S. taxable branch on a pro-rata basis to the same persons and pursuant to the same terms that the home office paid or accrued interest, excluding any directly allocable interest or interest paid or accrued on a U.S. booked liability. The rules of this paragraph (b)(3)(ii) for determining to whom interest is paid or accrued apply without regard to whether the U.S. taxable branch interest payment is determined under the method described in § 1.882-5(b) through (d) or the method described in § 1.882-5(e).
(B)
Royalties.
Royalties considered paid or accrued by a U.S. taxable branch under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section are treated solely for purposes of section 267A as paid or accrued on a pro-rata basis by the U.S. taxable branch to the same persons and pursuant to the same terms that the home office paid or accrued such royalties.
(C)
Permanent establishments and interbranch payments.
If a U.S. taxable branch is a permanent establishment in the United States, the principles of the rules in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section apply with respect to interest and royalties allowed in computing the business profits of a treaty resident eligible for treaty benefits. This paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(C) does not apply to interbranch interest or royalty payments allowed as deduction under certain U.S. income tax treaties (as described in § 1.267A-2(c)(2)).
(4)
Effect on earnings and profits.
The disallowance of a deduction under section 267A does not affect whether the amount paid or accrued that gave rise to the deduction reduces earnings and profits of a corporation. However, for purposes of section 952(c)(1) and § 1.952-1(c), a CFC's earnings and profits are not reduced by a specified payment a deduction for which is disallowed under section 267A, if a principal purpose of the transaction pursuant to which the payment is made is to reduce or limit the CFC's subpart F income.
(5)
Application to structured payments
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of section 267A and the regulations in this part under section 267A, a structured payment (as defined in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section) is treated as interest. Thus, a structured payment is treated as subject to section 267A and the regulations in this part under section 267A to the same extent as if the payment were an amount of interest paid or accrued.
(ii)
Structured payment.
A structured payment means any amount described in paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A)
Substitute interest payments.
A substitute interest payment described in § 1.861-2(a)(7) is treated as a structured
payment for purposes of section 267A, unless the payment relates to a sale-repurchase agreement or a securities lending transaction that is entered into by the payor in the ordinary course of the payor's business. This paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(A) does not apply to an amount described in paragraph (a)(12)(i)(I) of this section.
(B)
Amounts economically equivalent to interest
—(
1
)
Principal purpose to reduce interest expense.
Any expense or loss economically equivalent to interest is treated as a structured payment for purposes of section 267A if a principal purpose of structuring the transaction(s) is to reduce an amount incurred by the taxpayer that otherwise would have been described in paragraph (a)(12) or (b)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B)(
1
), the fact that the taxpayer has a business purpose for obtaining the use of funds does not affect the determination of whether the manner in which the taxpayer structures the transaction(s) is with a principal purpose of reducing the taxpayer's interest expense. In addition, the fact that the taxpayer has obtained funds at a lower pre-tax cost based on the structure of the transaction(s) does not affect the determination of whether the manner in which the taxpayer structures the transaction(s) is with a principal purpose of reducing the taxpayer's interest expense. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B), any expense or loss is economically equivalent to interest to the extent that the expense or loss is—
(
i
) Deductible by the taxpayer;
(
ii
) Incurred by the taxpayer in a transaction or series of integrated or related transactions in which the taxpayer secures the use of funds for a period of time;
(
iii
) Substantially incurred in consideration of the time value of money; and
(
iv
) Not described in paragraph (a)(12) or (b)(5)(ii)(A) of this section.
(
2
)
Principal purpose.
Whether a transaction or a series of integrated or related transactions is entered into with a principal purpose described in paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section depends on all the facts and circumstances related to the transaction(s). A purpose may be a principal purpose even though it is outweighed by other purposes (taken together or separately). Factors to be taken into account in determining whether one of the taxpayer's principal purposes for entering into the transaction(s) include the taxpayer's normal borrowing rate in the taxpayer's functional currency, whether the taxpayer would enter into the transaction(s) in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business, whether the parties to the transaction(s) are related persons (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)), whether there is a significant and bona fide business purpose for the structure of the transaction(s), whether the transactions are transitory, for example, due to a circular flow of cash or other property, and the substance of the transaction(s).
(6)
Anti-avoidance rule.
A specified party's deduction for a specified payment is disallowed to the extent that both of the following requirements are satisfied:
(i) The payment (or income attributable to the payment) is not included in the income of a tax resident or taxable branch, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a) (but without regard to the deemed full inclusion rule in § 1.267A-3(a)(5)).
(ii) A principal purpose of the terms or structure of the arrangement (including the form and the tax laws of the parties to the arrangement) is to avoid the application of the regulations in this part under section 267A in a manner that is contrary to the purposes of section 267A and the regulations in this part under section 267A.
[T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19836, Apr. 8, 2020, as amended by 85 FR 48651, Aug. 12, 2020]
§ 1.267A-6
Examples.
(a)
Scope.
This section provides examples that illustrate the application of §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-5.
(b)
Presumed facts.
For purposes of the examples in this section, unless otherwise indicated, the following facts are presumed:
(1) US1, US2, and US3 are domestic corporations that are tax residents solely of the United States.
(2) FW, FX, and FZ are bodies corporate established in, and tax residents of, Country W, Country X, and Country
Z, respectively. They are not fiscally transparent under the tax law of any country. They are not specified parties.
(3) Under the tax law of each country, interest and royalty payments are deductible.
(4) The tax law of each country provides a 100 percent participation exemption for dividends received from non-resident corporations.
(5) The tax law of each country, other than the United States, provides an exemption for income attributable to a branch.
(6) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section, all amounts derived (determined under the principles of § 1.894-1(d)(1)) by a tax resident, or attributable to a taxable branch, are included in income, as determined under § 1.267A-3(a).
(7) Only the tax law of the United States contains hybrid mismatch rules.
(c)
Examples
—(1)
Example 1. Payment pursuant to a hybrid financial instrument
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of US1. FX also holds an instrument issued by US1 that is treated as equity for Country X tax purposes and indebtedness for U.S. tax purposes (the FX-US1 instrument). On date 1, US1 pays $50x to FX pursuant to the instrument. The amount is treated as an excludible dividend for Country X tax purposes (by reason of the Country X participation exemption) and as interest for U.S. tax purposes.
(ii)
Analysis.
US1 is a specified party and thus a deduction for its $50x specified payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A. As described in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section, the entire $50x payment is a disqualified hybrid amount under the hybrid transaction rule of § 1.267A-2(a) and, as a result, a deduction for the payment is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(1).
(A) US1's payment is made pursuant to a hybrid transaction because a payment with respect to the FX-US1 instrument is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes but not for purposes of Country X tax law (the tax law of FX, a specified recipient that is related to US1).
See
§ 1.267A-2(a)(2) and (f). Therefore, § 1.267A-2(a) applies to the payment.
(B) For US1's payment to be a disqualified hybrid amount under § 1.267A-2(a), a no-inclusion must occur with respect to FX.
See
§ 1.267A-2(a)(1)(i). As a consequence of the Country X participation exemption, FX includes $0 of the payment in income and therefore a $50x no-inclusion occurs with respect to FX.
See
§ 1.267A-3(a)(1). The result is the same regardless of whether, under the Country X participation exemption, the $50x payment is simply excluded from FX's taxable income or, instead, is reduced or offset by other means, such as a $50x dividends received deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-3(a)(1).
(C) Pursuant to § 1.267A-2(a)(1)(ii), FX's $50x no-inclusion gives rise to a disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that it is a result of US1's payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction. FX's $50x no-inclusion is a result of the payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction because, were the payment to be treated as interest for Country X tax purposes, FX would include $50x in income and, consequently, the no-inclusion would not occur.
(iii)
Alternative facts—multiple specified recipients.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, except that FX holds all the interests of FZ, which is fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes, and FZ holds all of the interests of US1. Moreover, the FX-US1 instrument is held by FZ (rather than by FX) and US1 makes its $50x payment to FZ (rather than to FX); the payment is derived by FZ under its tax law and by FX under its tax law and, accordingly, both FZ and FX are specified recipients of the payment. Further, the payment is treated as interest for Country Z tax purposes and FZ includes it in income. For the reasons described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, FX's no-inclusion causes the payment to be a disqualified hybrid amount. FZ's inclusion in income (regardless of whether Country Z has a low or high tax rate) does not affect the result, because the hybrid transaction rule of § 1.267A-2(a) applies if any no-inclusion occurs with respect to a specified recipient of the payment as a result of the payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction.
(iv)
Alternative facts—preferential rate.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, except that for Country X tax purposes US1's payment is treated as a dividend subject to a 4% tax rate, whereas the marginal rate imposed on ordinary income is 20%. FX includes $10x of the payment in income, calculated as $50x multiplied by 0.2 (.04, the rate at which the particular type of payment (a dividend for Country X tax purposes) is subject to tax in Country X, divided by 0.2, the marginal tax rate imposed on ordinary income).
See
§ 1.267A-3(a)(1). Thus, a $40x no-inclusion occurs with respect to FX ($50x less $10x). The $40x no-inclusion is a result of the payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction because, were the payment to be treated as interest for Country X tax purposes, FX would include the entire $50x in income at the full marginal rate imposed on ordinary income (20%) and, consequently, the no-inclusion would not occur. Accordingly, $40x of US1's payment is a disqualified hybrid amount.
(v)
Alternative facts—no-inclusion not the result of hybridity.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, except that Country X has a pure territorial regime (that is, Country X only taxes income with a domestic source). Although US1's payment is pursuant to a hybrid transaction and a $50x no-inclusion occurs with respect to FX, FX's no-inclusion is not a result of the payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction. This is because if Country X tax law were to treat the payment as interest, FX would include $0 in income and, consequently, the $50x no-inclusion would still occur. Accordingly, US1's payment is not a disqualified hybrid amount.
See
§ 1.267A-2(a)(1)(ii). The result would be the same if Country X instead did not impose a corporate income tax.
(vi)
Alternative facts—indebtedness under both tax laws but different ordering rules give rise to hybrid transaction; reduction of no-inclusion by reason of inclusion of a principal payment.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, except that the FX-US1 instrument is indebtedness for both U.S. and Country X tax purposes. In addition, the $50x date 1 payment is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes and a repayment of principal for Country X tax purposes. On date 1, based on all the facts and circumstances (including the terms of the FX-US1 instrument, the tax laws of the United States and Country X, and an absence of a plan pursuant to which FX would dispose of the FX-US1 instrument), it is reasonably expected that on date 2 (a date that is within 36 months after the end of the taxable year of US1 that includes date 1), US1 will pay a total of $200x to FX and that, for U.S. tax purposes, $25x will be treated as interest and $175x as a repayment of principal, and, for Country X tax purposes, $75x will be treated as interest (and included in FX's income) and $125x as a repayment of principal. US1's $50x specified payment is made pursuant to a hybrid transaction and, but for § 1.267A-3(a)(4), a $50x no-inclusion would occur with respect to FX.
See
§§ 1.267A-2(a)(2) and 1.267A-3(a)(1). However, pursuant to § 1.267A-3(a)(4), FX's inclusion in income with respect to $50x of the date 2 amount that is a repayment of principal for U.S. tax purposes is treated as correspondingly reducing FX's no-inclusion with respect to the specified payment. As a result, as to US1's $50x specified payment, a no-inclusion does not occur with respect to FX.
See
§ 1.267A-3(a)(4). Therefore, US1's $50x specified payment is not a disqualified hybrid amount.
See
§ 1.267A-2(a)(1)(i).
(2)
Example 2. Payment pursuant to a repo transaction
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of US1, and US1 holds all the interests of US2. On date 1, US1 and FX enter into a sale and repurchase transaction. Pursuant to the transaction, US1 transfers shares of preferred stock of US2 to FX in exchange for $1,000x, subject to a binding commitment of US1 to reacquire those shares on date 3 for an agreed price, which represents a repayment of the $1,000x plus a financing or time value of money return reduced by the amount of any distributions paid with respect to the preferred stock between dates 1 and 3 that are retained by FX. On date 2, US2 pays a $100x dividend on its preferred stock to FX. For Country X tax purposes, FX is treated as owning the US2 preferred stock and therefore is the beneficial owner of the dividend.
For U.S. tax purposes, the transaction is treated as a loan from FX to US1 that is secured by the US2 preferred stock. Thus, for U.S. tax purposes, US1 is treated as owning the US2 preferred stock and is the beneficial owner of the dividend. In addition, for U.S. tax purposes, US1 is treated as paying $100x of interest to FX (an amount corresponding to the $100x dividend paid by US2 to FX). Further, the marginal tax rate imposed on ordinary income under Country X tax law is 25%. Moreover, instead of a participation exemption, Country X tax law provides its tax residents a credit for underlying foreign taxes paid by a non-resident corporation from which a dividend is received; with respect to the $100x dividend received by FX from US2, the credit is $10x.
(ii)
Analysis.
US1 is a specified party and thus a deduction for its $100x specified payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A. As described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, $40x of the payment is a disqualified hybrid amount under the hybrid transaction rule of § 1.267A-2(a) and, as a result, $40x of the deduction is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(1).
(A) Although US1's $100x interest payment is not regarded under Country X tax law, a connected amount (US2's dividend payment) is regarded and derived by FX under such tax law. Thus, FX is considered a specified recipient with respect to US1's interest payment.
See
§ 1.267A-2(a)(3).
(B) US1's payment is made pursuant to a hybrid transaction because a payment with respect to the sale and repurchase transaction is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes but not for purposes of Country X tax law (the tax law of FX, a specified recipient that is related to US1), which does not regard the payment.
See
§ 1.267A-2(a)(2) and (f). Therefore, § 1.267A-2(a) applies to the payment.
(C) For US1's payment to be a disqualified hybrid amount under § 1.267A-2(a), a no-inclusion must occur with respect to FX.
See
§ 1.267A-2(a)(1)(i). As a consequence of Country X tax law not regarding US1's payment, FX includes $0 of the payment in income and therefore a $100x no-inclusion occurs with respect to FX.
See
§ 1.267A-3(a). However, FX includes $60x of a connected amount (US2's dividend payment) in income, calculated as $100x (the amount of the dividend) less $40x (the portion of the connected amount that is not included in income in Country X due to the foreign tax credit, determined by dividing the amount of the credit, $10x, by 0.25, the tax rate in Country X).
See
§ 1.267A-3(a). Pursuant to § 1.267A-2(a)(3), FX's inclusion in income with respect to the connected amount correspondingly reduces the amount of its no-inclusion with respect to US1's payment. Therefore, for purposes of § 1.267A-2(a), FX's no-inclusion with respect to US1's payment is $40x ($100x less $60x).
See
§ 1.267A-2(a)(3).
(D) Pursuant to § 1.267A-2(a)(1)(ii), FX's $40x no-inclusion gives rise to a disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that FX's no-inclusion is a result of US1's payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction. FX's $40x no-inclusion is a result of US1's payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction because, were the sale and repurchase transaction to be treated as a loan from FX to US1 for Country X tax purposes, FX would include US1's $100x interest payment in income (because it would not be entitled to a foreign tax credit) and, consequently, the no-inclusion would not occur.
(iii)
Alternative facts—structured arrangement.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, except that FX is a bank that is unrelated to US1. In addition, the sale and repurchase transaction is a structured arrangement and FX is a party to the structured arrangement. The result is the same as in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. That is, even though FX is not related to US1, it is taken into account with respect to the determinations under § 1.267A-2(a) because it is a party to a structured arrangement pursuant to which the payment is made.
See
§ 1.267A-2(f).
(3)
Example 3. Disregarded payment
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of US1. For Country X tax purposes, US1 is a disregarded entity of FX. During taxable year 1, US1 pays $100x to FX pursuant to a debt instrument. The amount is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes but is disregarded for
Country X tax purposes as a transaction involving a single taxpayer. During taxable year 1, US1's only other items of income, gain, deduction, or loss are $125x of gross income (the entire amount of which is included in US1's income) and a $60x item of deductible expense. The $125x item of gross income is included in FX's income, and the $60x item of deductible expense is allowable for Country X tax purposes.
(ii)
Analysis.
US1 is a specified party and thus a deduction for its $100x specified payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A. As described in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, $35x of the payment is a disqualified hybrid amount under the disregarded payment rule of § 1.267A-2(b) and, as a result, $35x of the deduction is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(1).
(A) US1's $100x payment is not regarded under the tax law of Country X (the tax law of FX, a related tax resident to which the payment is made) because under such tax law the payment involves a single taxpayer.
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(2) and (f). In addition, were the tax law of Country X to regard the payment (and treat it as interest), FX would include it in income. Therefore, the payment is a disregarded payment to which § 1.267A-2(b) applies.
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(2).
(B) Under § 1.267A-2(b)(1), the excess (if any) of US1's disregarded payments for taxable year 1 ($100x) over its dual inclusion income for the taxable year is a disqualified hybrid amount. US1's dual inclusion income for taxable year 1 is $65x, calculated as $125x (the amount of US1's gross income that is included in FX's income) less $60x (the amount of US1's deductible expenses, other than deductions for disregarded payments, that are allowable for Country X tax purposes).
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(3). Therefore, $35x is a disqualified hybrid amount ($100x less $65x).
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(1).
(iii)
Alternative facts—non-dual inclusion income arising from hybrid transaction.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, except that US1 holds all the interests of FZ (a specified party that is a CFC) and US1's only item of income, gain, deduction, or loss during taxable year 1 (other than the $100x payment to FX) is $80x paid to US1 by FZ pursuant to an instrument treated as indebtedness for U.S. and Country Z tax purposes and equity for Country X tax purposes (the US1-FZ instrument). The $80x is treated as interest for Country Z and U.S. tax purposes (the entire amount of which is included in US1's income) and is treated as an excludible dividend for Country X tax purposes (by reason of the Country X participation exemption). Paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section describe the extent to which the specified payments by FZ and US1, each of which is a specified party, are disqualified hybrid amounts.
(A) The hybrid transaction rule of § 1.267A-2(a) applies to FZ's payment because the payment is made pursuant to a hybrid transaction, as a payment with respect to the US1-FZ instrument is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes but not for purposes of Country X's tax law (the tax law of FX, a specified recipient that is related to FZ). As a consequence of the Country X participation exemption, an $80x no-inclusion occurs with respect to FX, and such no-inclusion is a result of the payment being made pursuant to the hybrid transaction. Thus, but for § 1.267A-3(b), the entire $80x of FZ's payment would be a disqualified hybrid amount. However, because US1 (a tax resident of the United States that is also a specified recipient of the payment) takes the entire $80x payment into account in its gross income, no portion of the payment is a disqualified hybrid amount.
See
§ 1.267A-3(b)(2).
(B) The disregarded payment rule of § 1.267A-2(b) applies to US1's $100x payment to FX, for the reasons described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section. In addition, US1 has no dual inclusion income for taxable year 1 because, as a result of the Country X participation exemption, no portion of FZ's $80x payment to US1 (which is derived by FX under its tax law) is included in FX's income.
See
§§ 1.267A-2(b)(3) and 1.267A-3(a). Therefore, the entire $100x payment from US1 to FX is a disqualified hybrid amount, calculated as $100x (the amount of the payment) less $0 (the amount of dual inclusion income).
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(1).
(iv)
Alternative facts—dual inclusion income despite participation exemption.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, except that the US1-FZ instrument is treated as indebtedness for U.S. tax purposes and equity for Country Z and Country X tax purposes. In addition, the $80x paid to US1 by FZ is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes (the entire amount of which is included in US1's income), a dividend for Country Z tax purposes (for which FZ is not allowed a deduction or other tax benefit), and an excludible dividend for Country X tax purposes (by reason of the Country X participation exemption). For the reasons described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, the hybrid transaction rule of § 1.267A-2(a) applies to FZ's payment but no portion of the payment is a disqualified hybrid amount. In addition, the disregarded payment rule of § 1.267A-2(b) applies to US1's $100x payment to FX, for the reasons described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. US1's dual inclusion income for taxable year 1 is $80x. This is because the $80x paid to US1 by FZ is included in US1's income and, although not included in FX's income, it is a dividend for Country X tax purposes that would have been included in FX's income but for the Country X participation exemption, and FZ is not allowed a deduction or other tax benefit for it under Country Z tax law.
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(3)(ii). Therefore, $20x of US1's $100x payment is a disqualified hybrid amount ($100x less $80x).
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(1).
(4)
Example 4. Payment allocable to a U.S. taxable branch
—(i)
Facts.
FX1 and FX2 are foreign corporations that are bodies corporate established in and tax residents of Country X. FX1 holds all the interests of FX2, and FX1 and FX2 file a consolidated return under Country X tax law. FX2 has a U.S. taxable branch (“USB”). During taxable year 1, FX2 pays $50x to FX1 pursuant to an instrument (the “FX1-FX2 instrument”). The amount paid pursuant to the instrument is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes but, as a consequence of the Country X consolidation regime, is treated as a disregarded transaction between group members for Country X tax purposes. Also during taxable year 1, FX2 pays $100x of interest to an unrelated bank that is not a party to a structured arrangement (the instrument pursuant to which the payment is made, the “bank-FX2 instrument”). FX2's only other item of income, gain, deduction, or loss for taxable year 1 is $200x of gross income. Under Country X tax law, the $200x of gross income is attributable to USB, but is not included in FX2's income because Country X tax law exempts income attributable to a branch. Under U.S. tax law, the $200x of gross income is effectively connected income of USB. Further, under section 882(c)(1), $75x of interest is, for taxable year 1, allocable to USB's effectively connected income. USB has neither liabilities that are directly allocable to it, as described in § 1.882-5(a)(1)(ii)(A), nor U.S. booked liabilities, as defined in § 1.882-5(d)(2).
(ii)
Analysis.
USB is a specified party and thus any interest or royalty allowable as a deduction in determining its effectively connected income is subject to disallowance under section 267A. Pursuant to § 1.267A-5(b)(3)(i)(A), USB is treated as paying $75x of interest, and such interest is thus a specified payment. Of that $75x, $25x is treated as paid to FX1, calculated as $75x (the interest allocable to USB under section 882(c)(1)) multiplied by
1/3
($50x, FX2's payment to FX1, divided by $150x, the total interest paid by FX2).
See
§ 1.267A-5(b)(3)(ii)(A). As described in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, the $25x of the specified payment treated as paid by USB to FX1 is a disqualified hybrid amount under the disregarded payment rule of § 1.267A-2(b) and, as a result, a deduction for that amount is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(1).
(A) USB's $25x payment to FX1 is not regarded under the tax law of Country X (the tax law of FX1, a related tax resident to which the payment is made) because under such tax law it is a disregarded transaction between group members.
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(2) and (f). In addition, were the tax law of Country X to regard the payment (and treat it as interest), FX1 would include it in income. Therefore, the payment is a disregarded payment to which § 1.267A-2(b) applies.
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(2).
(B) Under § 1.267A-2(b)(1), the excess (if any) of USB's disregarded payments for taxable year 1 ($25x) over its dual inclusion income for the taxable year is a disqualified hybrid amount. USB's dual inclusion income for taxable year 1 is $0. This is because, as a result of the Country X exemption for income attributable to a branch, no portion of USB's $200x item of gross income is included in FX2's income.
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(3). Therefore, the entire $25x of the specified payment treated as paid by USB to FX1 is a disqualified hybrid amount, calculated as $25x (the amount of the payment) less $0 (the amount of dual inclusion income).
See
§ 1.267A-2(b)(1).
(iii)
Alternative facts—deemed branch payment.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, except that FX2 does not pay any amounts during taxable year 1 (thus, it does not pay the $50x to FX1 or the $100x to the bank). However, under an income tax treaty between the United States and Country X, USB is a U.S. permanent establishment and, for taxable year 1, $25x of royalties is allowable as a deduction in computing the business profits of USB and is deemed paid to FX2. Under Country X tax law, the $25x is not regarded. Accordingly, the $25x is a specified payment that is a deemed branch payment.
See
§§ 1.267A-2(c)(2) and 1.267A-5(b)(3)(i)(B). In addition, the entire $25x is a disqualified hybrid amount for which a deduction is disallowed because the tax law of Country X provides an exclusion or exemption for income attributable to a branch.
See
§ 1.267A-2(c)(1).
(5)
Example 5. Payment to a reverse hybrid
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of US1 and FY, and FY holds all the interests of FV. FY is an entity established in Country Y, and FV is an entity established in Country V. FY is fiscally transparent for Country Y tax purposes but is not fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes. FV is fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes. On date 1, US1 pays $100x to FY. The payment is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes and Country X tax purposes.
(ii)
Analysis.
US1 is a specified party and thus a deduction for its $100x specified payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A. As described in paragraphs (c)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section, the entire $100x payment is a disqualified hybrid amount under the reverse hybrid rule of § 1.267A-2(d) and, as a result, a deduction for the payment is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(1).
(A) US1's payment is made to a reverse hybrid because FY is fiscally transparent under the tax law of Country Y (the tax law of the country in which it is established) but is not fiscally transparent under the tax law of Country X (the tax law of FX, an investor that is related to US1).
See
§ 1.267A-2(d)(2) and (f). Therefore, § 1.267A-2(d) applies to the payment. The result would be the same if the payment were instead made to FV.
See
§ 1.267A-2(d)(3).
(B) For US1's payment to be a disqualified hybrid amount under § 1.267A-2(d), a no-inclusion must occur with respect to FX, an investor the tax law of which treats FY as not fiscally transparent.
See
§ 1.267A-2(d)(1)(i). Because FX does not derive the $100x payment under Country X tax law (as FY is not fiscally transparent under such tax law), FX includes $0 of the payment in income and therefore a $100x no-inclusion occurs with respect to FX.
See
§ 1.267A-3(a).
(C) Pursuant to § 1.267A-2(d)(1)(ii), FX's $100x no-inclusion gives rise to a disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that it is a result of US1's payment being made to the reverse hybrid. FX's $100x no-inclusion is a result of the payment being made to the reverse hybrid because, were FY to be treated as fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes, FX would include $100x in income and, consequently, the no-inclusion would not occur. The result would be the same if Country X tax law instead viewed US1's payment as a dividend, rather than interest.
See
§ 1.267A-2(d)(1)(ii).
(iii)
Alternative facts—inclusion under anti-deferral regime.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, except that, under a Country X anti-deferral regime, FX takes into account $100x attributable to the $100x payment received by FY. If under the rules of § 1.267A-3(a) FX includes the entire attributed amount in income (that is, if FX takes the amount into
account in its income at the full marginal rate imposed on ordinary income and the amount is not reduced or offset by certain relief particular to the amount), then a no-inclusion does not occur with respect to FX. As a result, in such a case, no portion of US1's payment would be a disqualified hybrid amount under § 1.267A-2(d).
(iv)
Alternative facts—multiple investors.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, except that FX holds all the interests of FZ, which is fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes; FZ holds all the interests of FY, which is fiscally transparent for Country Z tax purposes; and FZ includes the $100x payment in income. Thus, each of FZ and FX is an investor of FY, as each directly or indirectly holds an interest of FY.
See
§ 1.267A-5(a)(13). A $100x no-inclusion occurs with respect to FX, an investor the tax law of which treats FY as not fiscally transparent. FX's no-inclusion is a result of the payment being made to the reverse hybrid because, were FY to be treated as fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes, then FX would include $100x in income (as FZ is fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes). Accordingly, FX's no-inclusion is a result of US1's payment being made to the reverse hybrid and, consequently, the entire $100x payment is a disqualified hybrid amount. However, if instead FZ were not fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes, then FX's no-inclusion would not be a result of US1's payment being made to the reverse hybrid and, therefore, the payment would not be a disqualified hybrid amount under § 1.267A-2(d).
(v)
Alternative facts—portion of no-inclusion not the result of hybridity.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, except that the $100x is viewed as a royalty for U.S. tax purposes and Country X tax purposes, and Country X tax law contains a patent box regime that provides an 80% deduction with respect to certain royalty income. If the royalty payment would qualify for the Country X patent box deduction were FY to be treated as fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes, then only $20x of FX's $100x no-inclusion would be the result of the payment being paid to a reverse hybrid, calculated as $100x (the no-inclusion with respect to FX that actually occurs) less $80x (the no-inclusion with respect to FX that would occur if FY were to be treated as fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes).
See
§ 1.267A-2(d)(1)(ii) and 1.267A-3(a)(1)(ii). Accordingly, in such a case, only $20x of US1's payment would be a disqualified hybrid amount under § 1.267A-2(d).
(vi)
Alternative facts—payment to a discretionary trust
—(A)
Facts.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section, except that FY is a discretionary trust established in, and a tax resident of, Country Y (and as a result, FY is generally not fiscally transparent for Country Y tax purposes under the principles of § 1.894-1(d)(3)(ii)). In general, under Country Y tax law, FX, an investor of FY, is not required to separately take into account in its income US1's $100x payment received by FY; instead, FY is required to take the payment into account in its income. However, under the trust agreement, the trustee of FY may, with respect to certain items of income received by FY, allocate such an item to FY's beneficiary, FX. When this occurs, then, for Country Y tax purposes, FY does not take the item into account in its income, and FX is required to take the item into account in its income as if it received the item directly from the source from which realized by FY. For Country X tax purposes, FX in all cases does not take into account in its income any item of income received by FY. With respect to the $100x paid from US1 to FY, the trustee allocates the $100x to FX.
(B)
Analysis.
FY is fiscally transparent with respect to US1's $100x payment under the tax law of Country Y (the tax law of the country in which FY is established).
See
§ 1.267A-5(a)(8)(i). In addition, FY is not fiscally transparent with respect to US1's $100x payment under the tax law of Country X (the tax law of FX, the investor of FY).
See
§ 1.267A-5(a)(8)(ii). Thus, FY is a reverse hybrid with respect to the payment.
See
§ 1.267A-2(d)(2) and (f). Therefore, for reasons similar to those discussed in paragraphs (c)(5)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, the entire $100x payment is a disqualified hybrid amount.
(6)
Example 6. Branch mismatch payment
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of US1 and FZ. FZ owns BB, a Country B branch that gives rise to a taxable presence in Country B under Country Z tax law but not under Country B tax law. On date 1, US1 pays $50x to FZ. The amount is treated as a royalty for U.S. tax purposes and Country Z tax purposes. Under Country Z tax law, the amount is treated as income attributable to BB and, as a consequence of County Z tax law exempting income attributable to a branch, is excluded from FZ's income.
(ii)
Analysis.
US1 is a specified party and thus a deduction for its $50x specified payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A. As described in paragraphs (c)(6)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section, the entire $50x payment is a disqualified hybrid amount under the branch mismatch rule of § 1.267A-2(e) and, as a result, a deduction for the payment is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(1).
(A) US1's payment is a branch mismatch payment because under Country Z tax law (the tax law of FZ, a home office that is related to US1) the payment is treated as income attributable to BB, and BB is not a taxable branch (that is, under Country B tax law, BB does not give rise to a taxable presence).
See
§ 1.267A-2(e)(2) and (f). Therefore, § 1.267A-2(e) applies to the payment. The result would be the same if instead BB were a taxable branch and, under Country B tax law, US1's payment were treated as income attributable to FZ, the home office, and not BB.
See
§ 1.267A-2(e)(2).
(B) For US1's payment to be a disqualified hybrid amount under § 1.267A-2(e), a no-inclusion must occur with respect to FZ.
See
§ 1.267A-2(e)(1)(i). As a consequence of the Country Z branch exemption, FZ includes $0 of the payment in income and therefore a $50x no-inclusion occurs with respect to FZ.
See
§ 1.267A-3(a).
(C) Pursuant to § 1.267A-2(e)(1)(ii), FZ's $50x no-inclusion gives rise to a disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that it is a result of US1's payment being a branch mismatch payment. FZ's $50x no-inclusion is a result of the payment being a branch mismatch payment because, were the payment to not be treated as income attributable to BB for Country Z tax purposes, FZ would include $50x in income and, consequently, the no-inclusion would not occur.
(7)
Example 7. Reduction of disqualified hybrid amount for certain amounts includible in income
—(i)
Facts.
US1 and FW hold 60% and 40%, respectively, of the interests of FX, and FX holds all the interests of FZ. Each of FX and FZ is a specified party that is a CFC. FX holds an instrument issued by FZ that it is treated as equity for Country X tax purposes and as indebtedness for U.S. tax purposes (the FX-FZ instrument). On date 1, FZ pays $100x to FX pursuant to the FX-FZ instrument. The amount is treated as a dividend for Country X tax purposes and as interest for U.S. tax purposes. In addition, pursuant to section 954(c)(6), the amount is not foreign personal holding company income of FX and, under section 951A, the amount is gross tested income (as described in § 1.951A-2(c)(1)) of FX. Further, were FZ allowed a deduction for the amount, it would be allocated and apportioned to gross tested income (as described in § 1.951A-2(c)(1)) of FZ. Lastly, Country X tax law provides an 80% participation exemption for dividends received from nonresident corporations and, as a result of such participation exemption, FX includes $20x of FZ's payment in income.
(ii)
Analysis.
FZ, a CFC, is a specified party and thus a deduction for its $100x specified payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A. But for § 1.267A-3(b), $80x of FZ's payment would be a disqualified hybrid amount (such amount, a “tentative disqualified hybrid amount”).
See
§§ 1.267A-2(a) and 1.267A-3(b)(1). Pursuant to § 1.267A-3(b), the tentative disqualified hybrid amount is reduced by $48x.
See
§ 1.267A-3(b)(4). The $48x is the tentative disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that it increases US1's pro rata share of tested income with respect to FX under section 951A (calculated as $80x multiplied by 60%).
See
§ 1.267A-3(b)(4). Accordingly, $32x of FZ's payment ($80x less $48x) is a disqualified hybrid amount under § 1.267A-2(a) and, as a result, $32x of the deduction is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(1).
(iii)
Alternative facts—United States shareholder is a domestic partnership.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section, except that US1 is a domestic partnership, 90% of the interests of which are held by US2 and the remaining 10% of which are held by an individual that is a nonresident alien (as defined in section 7701(b)(1)(B)). Thus, although each of US1 and US2 is a United States shareholder of FX, only US2 has a pro rata share of any tested item of FX.
See
§ 1.951A-1(e). In addition, $43.2x of the $80x tentative disqualified hybrid amount increases US2's pro rata share of the tested income of FX (calculated as $80x multiplied by 60% multiplied by 90%). Thus, $36.8x of FZ's payment ($80x less $43.2x) is a disqualified hybrid amount under § 1.267A-2(a).
See
§ 1.267A-3(b)(4).
(8)
Example 8. Imported mismatch rule—direct offset
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of FW, and FW holds all the interests of US1. FX holds an instrument issued by FW that is treated as equity for Country X tax purposes and indebtedness for Country W tax purposes (the FX-FW instrument). FW holds an instrument issued by US1 that is treated as indebtedness for Country W and U.S. tax purposes (the FW-US1 instrument). In accounting period 1, FW pays $100x to FX pursuant to the FX-FW instrument. The amount is treated as an excludible dividend for Country X tax purposes (by reason of the Country X participation exemption) and as interest for Country W tax purposes. Also in accounting period 1, US1 pays $100x to FW pursuant to the FW-US1 instrument. The amount is treated as interest for Country W and U.S. tax purposes and is included in FW's income. The FX-FW instrument was not entered into pursuant to the same plan or series of related transactions pursuant to which the FW-US1 instrument was entered into.
(ii)
Analysis.
US1 is a specified party and thus a deduction for its $100x specified payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A. US1's $100x payment is neither a disqualified hybrid amount nor included or includible in income in the United States.
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(2)(v). In addition, FW's $100x deduction is a hybrid deduction because it is a deduction allowed to FW that results from an amount paid that is interest under Country W tax law, and were Country W law to have rules substantially similar to those under §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-3 and 1.267A-5, a deduction for the payment would be disallowed (because under such rules the payment would be pursuant to a hybrid transaction and FX's no-inclusion would be a result of the hybrid transaction).
See
§§ 1.267A-2(a) and 1.267A-4(b). Under § 1.267A-4(a)(2), US1's payment is an imported mismatch payment, US1 is an imported mismatch payer, and FW (the foreign tax resident that includes the imported mismatch payment in income) is an imported mismatch payee. The imported mismatch payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount to the extent that the income attributable to the payment is directly or indirectly offset by the hybrid deduction incurred by FW (a foreign tax resident that is related to US1).
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(1). Under § 1.267A-4(c)(1), the $100x hybrid deduction directly or indirectly offsets the income attributable to US1's imported mismatch payment to the extent that the payment directly or indirectly funds the hybrid deduction. The entire $100x of US1's payment directly funds the hybrid deduction because FW (the imported mismatch payee) incurs at least that amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(i). Accordingly, the entire $100x payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount under § 1.267A-4(a)(1) and, as a result, a deduction for the payment is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(2).
(iii)
Alternative facts—long-term deferral.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section, except that the FX-FW instrument is treated as indebtedness for Country X and Country W tax purposes, and FW does not pay any amounts pursuant to the instrument during accounting period 1. In addition, under Country W tax law, FW is allowed to deduct interest under the FX-FW instrument as it accrues, whereas under Country X tax law FX does not take into account in its income interest under the FX-FW instrument until the interest is paid. Further, FW accrues $100x of interest during accounting period 1, and FW will
not pay such amount to FX for more than 36 months after the end of accounting period 1. The results are the same as in paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section. That is, FW's $100x deduction for the accrued interest is a hybrid deduction,
see
§§ 1.267A-2(a), 1.267A-3(a), and 1.267A-4(b), and the income attributable to US1's $100x imported mismatch payment is offset by the hybrid deduction for the reasons described in paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section. As a result, a deduction for the payment is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(2). The result would be the same even if the FX-FW instrument is expected to be redeemed or capitalized before the $100x of interest is paid such that FX will never take into account in its income (and therefore will not include in income) the $100x of interest.
(iv)
Alternative facts—notional interest deduction.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section, except that there is no FX-FW instrument and thus FW does not pay any amounts to FX during accounting period 1. However, during accounting period 1, FW is allowed a $100x notional interest deduction with respect to its equity under Country W tax law. Pursuant to § 1.267A-4(b)(1)(ii), FW's notional interest deduction is a hybrid deduction. The results are the same as in paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section. That is, the income attributable to US1's $100x imported mismatch payment is offset by FW's hybrid deduction for the reasons described in paragraph (c)(8)(ii) of this section. As a result, a deduction for the payment is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(2). The result would be the same if the tax law of Country W contains hybrid mismatch rules because FW's deduction is a deduction with respect to equity.
See
§ 1.267A-4(b)(2)(i).
(v)
Alternative facts—foreign hybrid mismatch rules prevent hybrid deduction.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section, except that the tax law of Country W contains hybrid mismatch rules, and under such rules FW is not allowed a deduction for the $100x that it pays to FX pursuant to the FX-FW instrument. The $100x paid by FW therefore does not give rise to a hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(b). Accordingly, because the income attributable to US1's payment to FW is not directly or indirectly offset by a hybrid deduction, the payment is not a disqualified imported mismatch amount. Therefore, a deduction for the payment is not disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(2).
(9)
Example 9. Imported mismatch rule—indirect offsets and pro rata allocations
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of FZ, and FZ holds all the interests of US1 and US2. FX has a Country B branch that, for Country X and Country B tax purposes, gives rise to a taxable presence in Country B and is therefore a taxable branch (“BB”). Under the Country B-Country X income tax treaty, BB is a permanent establishment entitled to deduct expenses properly attributable to BB for purposes of computing its business profits under the treaty. In addition, BB is deemed to pay a royalty to FX for the right to use intangibles developed by FX equal to cost plus y%. The deemed royalty is a deductible expense properly attributable to BB under the Country B-Country X income tax treaty. For Country X tax purposes, any transactions between BB and X are disregarded. The deemed royalty is $80x for accounting period 1. Country B tax law does not permit a loss of a taxable branch to be shared with a tax resident or another taxable branch. In addition, an instrument issued by FZ to FX is properly reflected as an asset on the books and records of BB (the FX-FZ instrument). The FX-FZ instrument is treated as indebtedness for Country X, Country Z, and Country B tax purposes. In accounting period 1, FZ pays $80x to FX pursuant to the FX-FZ instrument; the amount is treated as interest for Country X, Country Z, and Country B tax purposes, and is treated as income attributable to BB for Country X and Country B tax purposes (but, for Country X tax purposes, is excluded from FX's income as a consequence of the Country X exemption for income attributable to a branch). Further, in accounting period 1, US1 and US2 pay $60x and $40x, respectively, to FZ pursuant to instruments that are treated as indebtedness for Country Z and U.S. tax purposes; the amounts are treated as interest for Country Z and U.S. tax purposes and are included in FZ's income. Lastly, neither the instrument
pursuant to which US1 pays the $60x nor the instrument pursuant to which US2 pays the $40x was entered into pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions that includes the transaction or agreement giving rise to BB's deduction for the deemed royalty.
(ii)
Analysis.
US1 and US2 are specified parties and thus deductions for their specified payments are subject to disallowance under section 267A. Neither of the payments is a disqualified hybrid amount, nor is either of the payments included or includible in income in the United States.
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(2)(v). In addition, BB's $80x deduction for the deemed royalty is a hybrid deduction because it is a deduction allowed to BB that results from an amount paid that is treated as a royalty under Country B tax law (regardless of whether a royalty deduction would be allowed under U.S. law), and were Country B tax law to have rules substantially similar to those under §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-3 and 1.267A-5, a deduction for the payment would be disallowed because under such rules the payment would be a deemed branch payment and Country X has an exclusion for income attributable to a branch.
See
§§ 1.267A-2(c) and 1.267A-4(b). Under § 1.267A-4(a)(2), each of US1's and US2's payments is an imported mismatch payment, US1 and US2 are imported mismatch payers, and FZ (the foreign tax resident that includes the imported mismatch payments in income) is an imported mismatch payee. The imported mismatch payments are disqualified imported mismatch amounts to the extent that the income attributable to the payments is directly or indirectly offset by the hybrid deduction incurred by BB (a foreign taxable branch that is related to US1 and US2).
See
§ 1.267A-4(a). Under § 1.267A-4(c)(1), the $80x hybrid deduction directly or indirectly offsets the income attributable to the imported mismatch payments to the extent that the payments directly or indirectly fund the hybrid deduction. Paragraphs (c)(9)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section describe the extent to which the imported mismatch payments directly or indirectly fund the hybrid deduction.
(A) Neither US1's nor US2's payment directly funds the hybrid deduction because FZ (the imported mismatch payee) does not incur the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(i). To determine the extent to which the payments indirectly fund the hybrid deduction, the amount of the hybrid deduction that is allocated to FZ must be determined.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(ii). FZ is allocated the hybrid deduction to the extent that it directly or indirectly makes a funded taxable payment to BB (the foreign taxable branch that incurs the hybrid deduction).
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(iii). The $80x that FZ pays pursuant to the FX-FZ instrument is a funded taxable payment of FZ to BB.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(v). Therefore, because FZ makes a funded taxable payment to BB that is at least equal to the amount of the hybrid deduction, FZ is allocated the entire amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(iii).
(B) But for US2's imported mismatch payment, the entire $60x of US1's imported mismatch payment would indirectly fund the hybrid deduction because FZ is allocated at least that amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(ii). Similarly, but for US1's imported mismatch payment, the entire $40x of US2's imported mismatch payment would indirectly fund the hybrid deduction because FZ is allocated at least that amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(ii). However, because the sum of US1's and US2's imported mismatch payments to FZ ($100x) exceeds the hybrid deduction allocated to FZ ($80x), pro rata adjustments must be made.
See
§ 1.267A-4(e). Thus, $48x of US1's imported mismatch payment is considered to indirectly fund the hybrid deduction, calculated as $80x (the amount of the hybrid deduction) multiplied by 60% ($60x, the amount of US1's imported mismatch payment to FZ, divided by $100x, the sum of the imported mismatch payments that US1 and US2 make to FZ). Similarly, $32x of US2's imported mismatch payment is considered to indirectly fund the hybrid deduction, calculated as $80x (the amount of the hybrid deduction) multiplied by 40% ($40x, the amount of US2's imported mismatch payment to FZ, divided by
$100x, the sum of the imported mismatch payments that US1 and US2 make to FZ). Accordingly, $48x of US1's imported mismatch payment, and $32x of US2's imported mismatch payment, are disqualified imported mismatch amounts under § 1.267A-4(a)(1) and, as a result, deductions for such amounts are disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(2).
(iii)
Alternative facts—loss made available through foreign group relief regime.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this section, except that FZ holds all the interests in FZ2, a body corporate that is a tax resident of Country Z, FZ2 (rather than FZ) holds all the interests of US1 and US2, and US1 and US2 make their respective $60x and $40x payments to FZ2 (rather than to FZ). Further, in accounting period 1, a $10x loss of FZ is made available to offset income of FZ2 through a Country Z foreign group relief regime. Pursuant to § 1.267A-4(c)(3)(vi), FZ and FZ2 are treated as a single foreign tax resident for purposes of § 1.267A-4(c) because a loss that is not incurred by FZ2 (FZ's $10x loss) is made available to offset income of FZ2 under the Country Z group relief regime. Accordingly, the results are the same as in paragraph (c)(9)(ii) of this section. That is, by treating FZ and FZ2 as a single foreign tax resident for purposes of § 1.267A-4(c), BB's hybrid deduction offsets the income attributable to US1's and US2's imported mismatch payments to the same extent as described in paragraph (c)(9)(ii) of this section.
(10)
Example 10. Imported mismatch rule—ordering rules and rule deeming certain payments to be imported mismatch payments
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of FW, and FW holds all the interests of US1, US2, and FZ. FZ holds all the interests of US3. FX transfers cash to FW in exchange for an instrument that is treated as equity for Country X tax purposes and indebtedness for Country W tax purposes (the FX-FW instrument). FW transfers cash to US1 in exchange for an instrument that is treated as indebtedness for Country W and U.S. tax purposes (the FW-US1 instrument). The FX-FW instrument and the FW-US1 instrument were entered into pursuant to a plan a design of which was for deductions incurred by FW pursuant to the FX-FW instrument to offset income attributable to payments by US1 pursuant to the FW-US1 instrument. In accounting period 1, FW pays $125x to FX pursuant to the FX-FW instrument; the amount is treated as an excludible dividend for Country X tax purposes (by reason of the Country X participation exemption regime) and as interest for Country W tax purposes. Also in accounting period 1, US1 pays $50x to FW pursuant to the FW-US1 instrument; US2 pays $50x to FW pursuant to an instrument treated as indebtedness for Country W and U.S. tax purposes (the FW-US2 instrument); US3 pays $50x to FZ pursuant to an instrument treated as indebtedness for Country Z and U.S. tax purposes (the FZ-US3 instrument); and FZ pays $50x to FW pursuant to an instrument treated as indebtedness for Country W and Country Z tax purposes (FW-FZ instrument). The amounts paid by US1, US2, US3, and FZ are treated as interest for purposes of the relevant tax laws and are included in the income of FW (in the case of US1's, US2's and FZ's payment) or FZ (in the case of US3's payment). Lastly, neither the FW-US2 instrument, the FW-FZ instrument, nor the FZ-US3 instrument was entered into pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions that includes the transaction pursuant to which the FX-FW instrument was entered into.
(ii)
Analysis.
US1, US2, and US3 are specified parties (but FZ is not a specified party, see § 1.267A-5(a)(17)) and thus deductions for US1's, US2's, and US3's specified payments are subject to disallowance under section 267A. None of the specified payments is a disqualified hybrid amount, nor is any of the payments included or includible in income in the United States.
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(2)(v). Under § 1.267A-4(a)(2), each of the payments is an imported mismatch payment, US1, US2, and US3 are imported mismatch payers, and FW and FZ (the foreign tax residents that include the imported mismatch payments in income) are imported mismatch payees. The imported mismatch payments are disqualified imported mismatch amounts to the extent that the income attributable to the payments is directly or indirectly offset by
FW's $125x hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(1) and (b). Under § 1.267A-4(c)(1), the $125x hybrid deduction directly or indirectly offsets the income attributable to the imported mismatch payments to the extent that the payments directly or indirectly fund the hybrid deduction. Paragraphs (c)(10)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section describe the extent to which the imported mismatch payments directly or indirectly fund the hybrid deduction and are therefore disqualified hybrid amounts for which a deduction is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(2).
(A) First, the $125x hybrid deduction offsets the income attributable to US1's imported mismatch payment, a factually-related imported mismatch payment that directly funds the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(2)(i). The entire $50x of US1's payment directly funds the hybrid deduction because FW (the imported mismatch payee) incurs at least that amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(i). Accordingly, the entire $50x of the payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount under § 1.267A-4(a)(1).
(B) Second, the remaining $75x hybrid deduction offsets the income attributable to US2's imported mismatch payment, a factually-unrelated imported mismatch payment that directly funds the remaining hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(2)(ii). The entire $50x of US2's payment directly funds the remaining hybrid deduction because FW (the imported mismatch payee) incurs at least that amount of the remaining hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(i). Accordingly, the entire $50x of the payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount under § 1.267A-4(a)(1).
(C) Third, the remaining $25x hybrid deduction offsets the income attributable to US3's imported mismatch payment, a factually-unrelated imported mismatch payment that indirectly funds the remaining hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(2)(iii). The imported mismatch payment indirectly funds the remaining hybrid deduction to the extent that FZ (the imported mismatch payee) is allocated the remaining hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(ii). FZ is allocated the remaining hybrid deduction to the extent that it directly or indirectly makes a funded taxable payment to FW (the tax resident that incurs the hybrid deduction).
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(iii). The $50x that FZ pays to FW pursuant to the FW-FZ instrument is a funded taxable payment of FZ to FW.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(v). Therefore, because FZ makes a funded taxable payment to FW that is at least equal to the amount of the remaining hybrid deduction, FZ is allocated the remaining hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(iii). Accordingly, $25x of US3's payment indirectly funds the $25x remaining hybrid deduction and, consequently, $25x of US3's payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount under § 1.267A-4(a)(2).
(iii)
Alternative facts—amount deemed to be an imported mismatch payment.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section, except that US1 is not a domestic corporation but instead is a body corporate that is only a tax resident of Country E (hereinafter, “FE”) (thus, for purposes of this paragraph (c)(10)(iii), the FW-US1 instrument is instead issued by FE and is the “FW-FE instrument”). In addition, the tax law of Country E contains hybrid mismatch rules and the $50x FE pays to FW pursuant to the FW-FE instrument is subject to disallowance under a provision of the hybrid mismatch rules substantially similar to § 1.267A-4. Pursuant to § 1.267A-4(f)(2), the $50x that FE pays to FW pursuant to the FW-FE instrument is deemed to be an imported mismatch payment for purposes of determining the extent to which the income attributable to an imported mismatch payment is offset by FW's hybrid deduction (a hybrid deduction other than one described in § 1.267A-4(f)(1)). The results are the same as in paragraphs (c)(10)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section. That is, by treating the $50x that FE pays to FW as an imported mismatch payment, and for reasons similar to those described in paragraphs (c)(10)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section, $50x of FW's $125x hybrid deduction offsets income attributable to FE's imported mismatch payment, $50x of the remaining $75x hybrid deduction offsets income attributable to US2's imported mismatch payment, and the remaining $25x hybrid deduction offsets income attributable to US3's imported
mismatch payment. Accordingly, the entire $50x of US2's payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount, and $25x of US3's payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount.
(iv)
Alternative facts—amount deemed to be an imported mismatch payment and “waterfall” approach.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section, except that FZ holds all of the interests of US3 indirectly through FE, a body corporate that is only a tax resident of Country E (hereinafter, “FE”), and US3 makes its $50x payment to FE (rather than to FZ); such amount is treated as interest for Country E tax purposes and is included in FE's income. In addition, during accounting period 1, FE pays $50x to FZ pursuant to an instrument; such amount is treated as interest for Country E and Country Z tax purposes, and is included in FZ's income. Further, the tax law of Country E contains hybrid mismatch rules and the $50x FE pays to FZ pursuant to the instrument is subject to disallowance under a provision of the hybrid mismatch rules substantially similar to § 1.267A-4. For purposes of determining the extent to which the income attributable to an imported mismatch payment is directly or indirectly offset by a hybrid deduction, the $50x that FE pays to FZ is deemed to be an imported mismatch payment (and FE and FZ are deemed to be an imported mismatch payer and imported mismatch payee, respectively).
See
§ 1.267A-4(f)(2). With respect to US1 and US2, the results are the same as described in paragraphs (c)(10)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. No portion of US3's payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount because, by treating the $50x that FE pays to FZ as an imported mismatch payment, the remaining $25x of FW's hybrid deduction offsets income attributable to FE's imported mismatch payment. This is because the remaining $25x of FW's hybrid deduction is indirectly funded solely by FE's imported mismatch payment (as opposed to also being funded by US3's imported mismatch payment), as FZ (the imported mismatch payee with respect to FE's payment) directly makes a funded taxable payment to FW, whereas FE (the imported mismatch payee with respect to US3's payment) indirectly makes a funded taxable payment to FW.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(ii) through (v) and (vii).
(11)
Example 11. Imported mismatch rule—hybrid deduction of a CFC
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of US1, and FX and US1 hold 80% and 20%, respectively, of the interests of FZ, a specified party that is a CFC. US1 also holds all the interests of US2, and FX also holds all the interests of FY. FY is an entity established in Country Y, and is fiscally transparent for Country Y tax purposes but is not fiscally transparent for Country X tax purposes. In accounting period 1, US2 pays $100x to FZ pursuant to an instrument (the FZ-US2 instrument). The amount is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes and Country Z tax purposes, and is included in FZ's income; in addition, for U.S. tax purposes, the amount is foreign personal holding company income of FZ. Also in accounting period 1, FZ pays $100x to FY pursuant to an instrument (the FY-FZ instrument). The amount is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes and Country Z tax purposes, and none of the amount is included in FX's income. Under Country Z tax law, FZ is allowed a deduction for its entire $100x payment. Under § 1.267A-2(d), the entire $100x of FZ's payment is a disqualified hybrid amount (by reason of being made to a reverse hybrid) and, as a result, a deduction for the payment is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(1); in addition, if a deduction were allowed for the $100x, it would be allocated and apportioned (under the rules of section 954(b)(5)) to gross subpart F income of FZ. Lastly, the FZ-US2 instrument was not entered into pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions that includes the transaction pursuant to which the FY-FZ instrument was entered into.
(ii)
Analysis.
US2 is a specified party and thus a deduction for its $100x specified payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A. As described in paragraphs (c)(11)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section, $80x of US2's payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount for which a deduction is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(2).
(A) $80x of US2's specified payment is an imported mismatch payment, calculated as $100x (the amount of the
payment) less $0 (the disqualified hybrid amount with respect to the payment) less $20 (the amount of the payment that is included or includible in income in the United States).
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(2)(v). US2 is an imported mismatch payer and FZ (a foreign tax resident that includes the imported mismatch in income) is an imported mismatch payee.
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(2).
(B) But for § 1.267A-4(b)(2)(iv), the entire $100x deduction allowed to FZ under its tax law would be a hybrid deduction.
See
§§ 1.267A-2(d) and 1.267A-4(b)(1). However, pursuant to § 1.267A-4(b)(2)(iv), only $80x of the deduction is a hybrid deduction, calculated as $100x (the deduction to the extent that it would be a hybrid deduction but for § 1.267A-4(b)(2)(iv)) less $20x (the extent that FZ's payment giving rise to the deduction is a disqualified hybrid amount that is taken into account for purposes of § 1.267A-4(b)(2)(iv)(A)), less $0 (the extent that FZ's payment giving rise to the deduction is included or includible in income in the United States).
See
§ 1.267A-4(b)(2)(iv). The $20x disqualified hybrid amount that is taken into account for purposes of § 1.267A-4(b)(2)(iv)(A) is calculated as $100x (the extent that FZ's payment is a disqualified hybrid amount) less $80x ($100x, the disqualified hybrid amount to the extent that, if allowed as a deduction, it would be allocated and apportioned to gross subpart F income, multiplied by 80%, the difference of 100% and the percentage of the stock (by value) of FZ that is owned by US1)).
See
§ 1.267A-4(g).
(C) The $80x hybrid deduction offsets the income attributable to US2's imported mismatch payment, an imported mismatch payment that directly funds the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(2)(ii). The entire $80x of US2's imported mismatch payment directly funds the hybrid deduction because FZ (the imported mismatch payee) incurs at least that amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(i). Accordingly, the entire $80x of US2's imported mismatch payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount under § 1.267A-4(a)(1).
(12)
Example 12. Imported mismatch rule—application first with respect to certain hybrid deductions, then with respect to other hybrid deductions
—(i)
Facts.
FX holds all the interests of FZ, and FZ holds all the interests of each of US1 and FE. The tax law of Country E contains hybrid mismatch rules. FX holds an instrument issued by FZ that is treated as equity for Country X tax purposes and indebtedness for Country Z tax purposes (the FX-FZ instrument). In accounting period 1, FZ pays $10x to FX pursuant to the FX-FZ instrument. The amount is treated as an excludible dividend for Country X tax purposes (by reason of the Country X participation exemption) and as interest for Country Z tax purposes. Also in accounting period 1, FZ is allowed a $90x notional interest deduction with respect to its equity under Country Z tax law. In addition, in accounting period 1, US1 pays $100x to FZ pursuant to an instrument (the FZ-US1 instrument); the amount is treated as interest for U.S. tax purposes and Country Z tax purposes, and is included in FZ's income. Further, in accounting period 1, FE pays $40x to FZ pursuant to an instrument (the FZ-FE instrument); the amount is treated as interest for Country E and Country Z tax purposes, is included in FZ's income, and is subject to disallowance under a provision of Country E hybrid mismatch rules substantially similar to § 1.267A-4. Lastly, neither the FZ-US1 instrument nor the FZ-FE instrument was entered into pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions that includes the transaction pursuant to which the FX-FZ instrument was entered into.
(ii)
Analysis.
US1 is a specified party and thus a deduction for its $100x specified payment is subject to disallowance under section 267A. As described in paragraphs (c)(12)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section, $92x of US1's payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount for which a deduction is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(2).
(A) The entire $100x of US1's specified payment is an imported mismatch payment.
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(2)(v). US1 is an imported mismatch payer and FZ (a foreign tax resident that includes the imported mismatch payment in income) is an imported mismatch payee.
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(2).
(B) FZ has $100x of hybrid deductions (the $10x deduction for the payment
pursuant to the FX-FZ instrument plus the $90x notional interest deduction).
See
§ 1.267A-4(b). Pursuant to § 1.267A-4(f)(1), § 1.267A-4 is first applied by taking into account only the $90x hybrid deduction consisting of the notional interest deduction; in addition, for purposes of applying § 1.267A-4 in this manner, FE's $40x payment is not treated as an imported mismatch payment. Thus, the $90x hybrid deduction offsets the income attributable to US1's imported mismatch payment, an imported mismatch payment that directly funds the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(2)(ii). Moreover, $90x of US1's imported mismatch payment directly funds the hybrid deduction because FZ (the imported mismatch payee) incurs at least that amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(i).
(C) Section § 1.267A-4 is next applied by taking into account only the $10x hybrid deduction consisting of the deduction for the payment pursuant to the FX-FZ instrument.
See
§ 1.267A-4(f)(2). When applying § 1.267A-4 in this manner, and for purposes of determining the extent to which the income attributable to an imported mismatch payment is directly or indirectly offset by a hybrid deduction, FE's $40x payment is treated as an imported mismatch payment.
See
§ 1.267A-4(f)(2). In addition, US1's imported mismatch payment is reduced from $100x to $10x.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(4). But for FE's imported mismatch payment, the entire $10x of US1's imported mismatch payment would directly fund the $10x hybrid deduction because FZ incurred at least that amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(i). Similarly, but for US1's imported mismatch payment, the entire $40x of FE's imported mismatch payment would directly fund the $10x hybrid deduction because FZ incurred at least that amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(i). However, because the sum of US1's and FE's imported mismatch payments to FZ ($50x) exceeds the hybrid deduction incurred by FZ ($10x), pro rata adjustments must be made.
See
§ 1.267A-4(e). Thus, $2x of US1's imported mismatch payment is considered to directly fund the hybrid deduction, calculated as $10x (the amount of the hybrid deduction) multiplied by 20% ($10x, the amount of US1's imported mismatch payment to FZ, divided by $50x, the sum of the imported mismatch payments that US1 and FE make to FZ). Similarly, $8x of FE's imported mismatch payment is considered to directly fund the hybrid deduction, calculated as $10x (the amount of the hybrid deduction) multiplied by 80% ($40x, the amount of FE's imported mismatch payment to FZ, divided by $50x, the sum of the imported mismatch payments that US1 and FE make to FZ). Accordingly, $2x of FZ's $10x hybrid deduction offsets income attributable to US1's $10x imported mismatch payment, and $8x of the hybrid deduction offsets income attributable to FE's $40x imported mismatch payment.
(D) Therefore, $92x of US1's imported mismatch payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount, calculated as $90x (the amount that is a disqualified imported mismatch amount determined by applying § 1.267A-4 in the manner set forth in § 1.267A-4(f)(1)) plus $2x (the amount that is a disqualified imported mismatch amount determined by applying § 1.267A-4 in the manner set forth in § 1.267A-4(f)(2)).
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(1) and (f).
(iii)
Alternative facts—amount deemed to be an imported mismatch payment solely funds hybrid instrument deduction.
The facts are the same as in paragraph (c)(12)(i) of this section, except that FZ holds all of the interests of US1 indirectly through FE, and US1 makes its $100x payment to FE (rather than to FZ); such amount is treated as interest for U.S. and Country E tax purposes, and is included in FE's income. Moreover, FE pays $100x to FZ (rather than $40x); such amount is included in FZ's income, and is subject to disallowance under a provision of Country E hybrid mismatch rules substantially similar to § 1.267A-4. As described in paragraphs (c)(12)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section, $90x of US1's payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount for which a deduction is disallowed under § 1.267A-1(b)(2).
(A) The entire $100x of US1's specified payment is an imported mismatch payment.
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(2)(v). US1 is an imported mismatch payer and FE (a
foreign tax resident that includes the imported mismatch payment in income) is an imported mismatch payee.
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(2).
(B) FZ has $100x of hybrid deductions.
See
§ 1.267A-4(b). Pursuant to § 1.267A-4(f)(1), § 1.267A-4 is first applied by taking into account only the $90x hybrid deduction consisting of the notional interest deduction; in addition, for purposes of applying § 1.267A-4 in this manner, FE's $100x payment is not treated as an imported mismatch payment. Thus, the $90x hybrid deduction offsets the income attributable to US1's imported mismatch payment, an imported mismatch payment that indirectly funds the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(2)(iii). The imported mismatch payment indirectly funds the hybrid deduction because FE (the imported mismatch payee) is allocated the deduction, as FE makes a funded taxable payment (the $100x payment to FZ) that is at least equal to the amount of the deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(ii), (iii), and (v).
(C) Section § 1.267A-4 is next applied by taking into account only the $10x hybrid deduction consisting of the deduction for the payment pursuant to the FX-FZ instrument.
See
§ 1.267A-4(f)(2). For purposes of applying § 1.267A-4 in this manner, FE's $100x payment is reduced from $100x to $10x, and similarly US1's imported mismatch payment is reduced from $100x to $10x.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(4). Further, FE's $10x payment is treated as an imported mismatch payment.
See
§ 1.267A-4(f)(2). The entire $10x of FE's imported mismatch payment directly funds the hybrid deduction because FZ (the imported mismatch payee with respect to FE's imported mismatch payment) incurs at least that amount of the hybrid deduction.
See
§ 1.267A-4(c)(3)(i). Accordingly, the $10x hybrid deduction offsets the income attributable to FE's imported mismatch payment, and none of the income attributable to US1's imported mismatch payment.
(D) Therefore, $90x of US1's imported mismatch payment is a disqualified imported mismatch amount, calculated as $90x (the amount that is a disqualified imported mismatch amount determined by applying § 1.267A-4 in the manner set forth in § 1.267A-4(f)(1)) plus $0 (the amount that is a disqualified imported mismatch amount determined by applying § 1.267A-4 in the manner set forth in § 1.267A-4(f)(2)).
See
§ 1.267A-4(a)(1) and (f).
[T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19836, Apr. 8, 2020]
§ 1.267A-7
Applicability dates.
(a)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-6 apply to taxable years ending on or after December 20, 2018, provided that such taxable years begin after December 31, 2017. However, taxpayers may apply the regulations in §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-6 in their entirety (including by taking into account paragraph (b) of this section) for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, and ending before December 20, 2018. In lieu of applying the regulations in §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-6 (including paragraph (b) of this section), taxpayers may apply the provisions matching §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-6 (including by taking into account the provision matching paragraph (b) of this section) from the Internal Revenue Bulletin (IRB) 2019-03 (
https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-irbs/irb19-03.pdf
) in their entirety for all taxable years ending on or before April 8, 2020.
(b)
Special rules.
The following special rules apply regarding applicability dates:
(1) Sections 1.267A-2(a)(4) (payments pursuant to interest-free loans and similar arrangements), (b) (disregarded payments), (c) (deemed branch payments), and (e) (branch mismatch transactions), 1.267A-4 (imported mismatch rule), and 1.267A-5(b)(5) (structured payments), except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, apply to taxable years beginning on or after December 20, 2018.
(2) Section 1.267A-5(a)(20) (defining structured arrangement), as well as the portions of §§ 1.267A-1 through 1.267A-3 that relate to structured arrangements and that are not otherwise described in paragraph (b) of this section, apply to taxable years beginning on or after December 20, 2018. However, in the case of a specified payment made pursuant to an arrangement entered into before December 22, 2017, § 1.267A-5(a)(20), and the portions of §§ 1.267A-1 through
1.267A-3 that relate to structured arrangements and that are not otherwise described in paragraph (b) of this section, apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the rules provided in § 1.267A-5(a)(12)(ii) (swaps with significant nonperiodic payments) apply to notional principal contracts entered into on or after April 8, 2021. However, taxpayers may apply the rules provided in § 1.267A-5(a)(12)(ii) to notional principal contracts entered into before April 8, 2021.
(4) For a notional principal contract entered into before April 8, 2021, the interest equivalent rules provided in § 1.267A-5(b)(5)(ii)(B) (applied without regard to the references to § 1.267A-5(a)(12)(ii)) apply to a notional principal contract entered into on or after April 8, 2020.
(5) Section 1.267A-5(b)(5)(ii)(B) (interest equivalent rules) applies to transactions entered into on or after April 8, 2020.
[T.D. 9896, 85 FR 19836, Apr. 8, 2020, as amended by 85 FR 48651, Aug. 12, 2020]
§ 1.267(a)-1
Deductions disallowed.
(a)
Losses.
Except in cases of distributions in corporate liquidations, no deduction shall be allowed for losses arising from direct or indirect sales or exchanges of property between persons who, on the date of the sale or exchange, are within any one of the relationships specified in section 267(b). See § 1.267(b)-1.
(b)
Unpaid expenses and interest.
(1) No deduction shall be allowed a taxpayer for trade or business expenses otherwise deductible under section 162, for expenses for production of income otherwise deductible under section 212, or for interest otherwise deductible under section 163:
(i) If, at the close of the taxpayer's taxable year within which such items are accrued by the taxpayer or at any time within 2
1/2
months thereafter, both the taxpayer and the payee are persons within any one of the relationships specified in section 267(b) (see § 1.267(b)-1); and
(ii) If the payee is on the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting with respect to such items of gross income for his taxable year in which or with which the taxable year of accrual by the debtor-taxpayer ends; and
(iii) If, within the taxpayer's taxable year within which such items are accrued by the taxpayer and 2
1/2
months after the close thereof, the amount of such items is not paid and the amount of such items is not otherwise (under the rules of constructive receipt) includible in the gross income of the payee.
(2) The provisions of section 267(a)(2) and this paragraph do not otherwise affect the general rules governing the allowance of deductions under an accrual method of accounting. For example, if the accrued expenses or interest are paid after the deduction has become disallowed under section 267(a)(2), no deduction would be allowable for the taxable year in which payment is made, since an accrual item is deductible only in the taxable year in which it is properly accruable.
(3) The expenses and interest specified in section 267(a)(2) and this paragraph shall be considered as paid for purposes of that section to the extent of the fair market value on the date of issue of notes or other instruments of similar effect received in payment of such expenses or interest if such notes or other instruments were issued in such payment by the taxpayer within his taxable year or within 2
1/2
months after the close thereof. The fair market value on the date of issue of such notes or other instruments of similar effect is includible in the gross income of the payee for the taxable year in which he receives the notes or other instruments.
(4) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example.
A, an individual, is the holder and owner of an interest-bearing note of the M Corporation, all the stock of which was owned by him on December 31, 1956. A and the M Corporation make their income tax returns for a calendar year. The M Corporation uses an accrual method of accounting. A uses a combination of accounting methods permitted under section 446(c)(4) in which he uses the cash receipts and disbursements method in respect of items of gross income. The M Corporation does not pay any interest on the note to A during the calendar year
1956 or within 2
1/2
months after the close of that year, nor does it credit any interest to A's account in such a manner that it is subject to his unqualified demand and thus is constructively received by him. M Corporation claims a deduction for the year 1956 for the interest accruing on the note in that year. Since A is on the cash receipts and disbursements method in respect of items of gross income, the interest is not includible in his return for the year 1956. Under the provisions of section 267(a)(2) and this paragraph, no deduction for such interest is allowable in computing the taxable income of the M Corporation for the taxable year 1956 or for any other taxable year. However, if the interest had actually been paid to A on or before March 15, 1957, or if it had been made available to A before that time (and thus had been constructively received by him), the M Corporation would be allowed to deduct the amount of the payment in computing its taxable income for 1956.
(c)
Scope of section.
Section 267(a) requires that deductions for losses or unpaid expenses or interest described therein be disallowed even though the transaction in which such losses, expenses, or interest were incurred was a bona fide transaction. However, section 267 is not exclusive. No deduction for losses or unpaid expenses or interest arising in a transaction which is not bona fide will be allowed even though section 267 does not apply to the transaction.
§ 1.267(a)-2T
Temporary regulations; questions and answers arising under the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (temporary).
(a)
Introduction
—(1)
Scope.
This section prescribes temporary question and answer regulations under section 267(a) and related provisions as amended by section 174 of the Tax Reform Act of 1984, Pub. L. No. 98-369.
(2)
Effective date.
Except as otherwise provided by
Answer 2
or
Answer 3
in paragraph (c) of this section, the effective date set forth in section 174(c) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 applies to this section.
(b)
Questions applying section 267(a)(2) and (b) generally.
The following questions and answers deal with the application of section 267(a)(2) and (b) generally:
Question 1:
Does section 267(a)(2) ever apply to defer the deduction of an otherwise deductible amount if the person to whom the payment is to be made properly uses the completed contract method of accounting with respect to such amount?
Answer 1:
No. Section 267(a)(2) applies only if an otherwise deductible amount is owed to a related person under whose method of accounting such amount is not includible in income unless paid to such person. Regardless of when payment is made, an amount owed to a contractor using the completed contract method of accounting is includible in the income of the contractor in accordance with § 1.451-3(d) in the year in which the contract is completed or in which certain disputes are resolved.
Question 2:
Does section 267(a)(2) ever apply to defer the deduction of otherwise deductible original issue discount as defined in sections 163(e) and 1271 through 1275 (“the OID rules”)?
Answer 2.
No. Regardless of when payment is made, an amount owed to a lender that constitutes original issue discount is included in the income of the lender periodically in accordance with the OID rules. Similarly, section 267(a)(2) does not apply to defer an otherwise deductible amount to the extent section 467 or section 7872 requires periodic inclusion of such amount in the income of the person to whom payment is to be made, even though payment has not been made.
Question 3:
Does section 267(a)(2) ever apply to defer the deduction of otherwise deductible unstated interest determined to exist under section 483?
Answer 3:
Yes. If section 483 recharacterizes any amount as unstated interest and the other requirements of section 267(a)(2) are met, a deduction for such unstated interest will be deferred under section 267.
Question 4:
Does section 267(a)(2) ever apply to defer the deduction of otherwise deductible cost recovery, depreciation, or amortization?
Answer 4:
Yes, in certain cases. In general, section 267(a)(2) does not apply to defer the deduction of otherwise deductible cost recovery, depreciation, or amortization. Notwithstanding this general rule, if the other requirements of section 267(a)(2) are met, section 267(a)(2) does apply to defer deductions for cost recovery, depreciation, or amortization of an amount owed to a related person for interest or rent or for
the performance or nonperformance of services, which amount the taxpayer payor capitalized or treated as a deferred expense (unless the taxpayer payor elected to capitalize or defer the amount and section 267(a)(2) would not have deferred the deduction of such amount if the taxpayer payor had not so elected). Amounts owed for services that may be subject to this provision include, for example, amounts owed for acquisition, development, or organizational services or for covenants not to compete. In applying this rule, payments made between persons described in any of the paragraphs of section 267(b) (as modified by section 267(e)) will be closely scrutinized to determine whether they are made in respect of capitalized costs (or costs treated as deferred expenses) that are subject to deferral under section 267(a)(2), or in respect of other capitalized costs not so subject.
Question 5:
If a deduction in respect of an otherwise deductible amount is deferred by section 267(a)(2) and, prior to the time the amount is includible in the gross income of the person to whom payment is to be made, such person and the payor taxpayer cease to be persons specified in any of the paragraphs of section 267(b) (as modified by section 267(e)), is the deduction allowable as of the day on which the relationship ceases?
Answer 5:
No. The deduction is not allowable until the day as of which the amount is includible in the gross income of the person to whom payment of the amount is made, even though the relationship ceases to exist at an earlier time.
Question 6:
Do references in other sections to persons described in section 267(b) incorporate changes made to section 267(b) by section 174 of the Tax Reform Act of 1984?
Answer 6:
Yes. References in other sections to persons described in section 267(b) take into account changes made to section 267(b) by section 174 of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (without modification by section 267(e)(1)). For example, a transfer after December 31, 1983 (the effective date of the new section 267(b)(3) relationship added by the Tax Reform Act of 1984) of section 1245 class property placed in service before January 1, 1981, from one corporation to another corporation, 11 percent of the stock of which is owned by the first corporation, will not constitute recovery property (as defined in section 168) in the hands of the second corporation by reason of section 168(e)(4) (A)(i) and (D).
(c)
Questions applying section 267(a) to partnerships.
The following questions and answers deal with the application of section 267(a) to partnerships:
Question 1:
Does section 267(a) disallow losses and defer otherwise deductible amounts at the partnership (entity) level?
Answer 1:
Yes. If a loss realized by a partnership from a sale or exchange of property is disallowed under section 267(a)(1), that loss shall not enter into the computation of the partnership's taxable income. If an amount that otherwise would be deductible by a partnership is deferred by section 267(a)(2), that amount shall not enter into the computation of the partnership's taxable income until the taxable year of the partnership in which falls the day on which the amount is includible in the gross income of the person to whom payment of the amount is made.
Question 2:
Does section 267(a)(1) ever apply to disallow a loss if the sale or exchange giving rise to the loss is between two partnerships even though the two partnerships are not persons specified in any of the paragraphs of section 267(b)?
Answer 2:
Yes. If the other requirements of section 267(a)(1) are met, section 267(a)(1) applies to such losses arising as a result of transactions entered into after December 31, 1984 between partnerships not described in any of the paragraphs of section 267(b) as follows, and § 1.267(b)-1(b) does not apply. If the two partnerships have one or more common partners (
i.e.,
if any person owns directly, indirectly, or constructively any capital or profits interest in each of such partnerships), or if any partner in either partnership and one or more partners in the other partnership are persons specified in any of the paragraphs of section 267(b) (without modification by section 267(e)), a portion of the selling partnership's loss will be disallowed under section 267(a)(1). The amount disallowed
under this rule is the greater of: (1) The amount that would be disallowed if the transaction giving rise to the loss had occurred between the selling partnership and the separate partners of the purchasing partnership (in proportion to their respective interests in the purchasing partnership); or (2) the amount that would be disallowed if such transaction had occurred between the separate partners of the selling partnership (in proportion to their respective interests in the selling partnership) and the purchasing partnership. Notwithstanding the general rule of this paragraph (c)
Answer 2,
no disallowance shall occur if the amount that would be disallowed pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence is less than 5 percent of the loss arising from the sale or exchange.
Question 3:
Does section 267(a)(2) ever apply to defer an otherwise deductible amount if the taxpayer payor is a partnership and the person to whom payment of such amount is to be made is a partnership even though the two partnerships are not persons specified in any of the paragraphs of section 267(b) (as modified by section 267(e))?
Answer 3:
Yes. If the other requirements of section 267(a)(2) are met, section 267(a)(2) applies to such amounts arising as a result of transactions entered into after December 31, 1984 between partnerships not described in any of the paragraphs of section 267(b) (as modified by section 267(e)) as follows, and § 1.267(b)-1(b) does not apply. If the two partnerships have one or more common partners (
i.e.,
if any person owns directly, indirectly, or constructively any capital or profits interest in each of such partnerships), or if any partner in either partnership and one or more partners in the other partnership are persons specified in any of the paragraphs of section 267(b) (without modification by section 267(e)), a portion of the payor partnership's otherwise allowable deduction will be deferred under section 267(a)(2). The amount deferred under this rule is the greater of: (1) The amount that would be deferred if the transaction giving rise to the otherwise allowable deduction had occurred between the payor partnership and the separate partners of the payee partnership (in proportion to their respective interests in the payee partnership); or (2) the amount that would be deferred if such transaction had occurred between the separate partners of the payor partnership (in proportion to their respective interests in the payor partnership) and the payee partnership. Notwithstanding the general rule of this paragraph (c)
Answer 3,
no deferral shall occur if the amount that would be deferred pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence is less than 5 percent of the otherwise allowable deduction.

# Example.
On May 1, 1985, partnership AB enters into a transaction whereby it accrues an otherwise deductible amount to partnership AC. AC is on the cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting. A holds a 5 percent capital and profits interest in AB and a 49 percent capital and profits interest in AC, and A's interest in each item of the income, gain, loss, deduction, and credit of each partnership is 5 percent and 49 percent, respectively. B and C are not related. Notwithstanding that AB and AC are not persons specified in section 267(b), 49 percent of the deduction in respect of such amount will be deferred under section 267(a)(2). The result would be the same if A held a 49 percent interest in AB and a 5 percent interest in AC. However, if A held more than 50 percent of the capital or profits interest of either AB or AC, the entire deduction in respect of such amount would be deferred under section 267(a)(2).
Question 4:
What does the phrase
incurred at an annual rate not in excess of 12 percent
mean as used in section 267(e)(5)(C)(ii)?
Answer 4:
The phrase refers to interest that accrues but is not includible in the income of the person to whom payment is to be made during the taxable year of the payor. Thus, in determining whether the requirements of section 267(e)(5) (providing an exception to certain provisions of section 267 for certain expenses and interest of partnerships owning low income housing) are met with respect to a transaction, the requirement of section 267(e)(5)(C)(ii) will be satisfied, even though the total interest (both stated and unstated) paid or accrued in any taxable year of the payor taxpayer exceeds 12 percent, if the interest in excess of 12 percent per annum, compounded semi-annually, on the outstanding loan balance (principal and accrued but unpaid interest) is includible in the income of
the person to whom payment is to be made no later than the last day of such taxable year of the payor taxpayer.
(98 Stat. 704, 26 U.S.C. 267; 98 Stat. 589, 26 U.S.C. 706; 68A Stat. 367, 26 U.S.C. 1502; 68A Stat. 917, 26 U.S.C. 7805)
[T.D. 7991, 49 FR 46995, Nov. 30, 1984]
§ 1.267(a)-3
Deduction of amounts owed to related foreign persons.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
This section provides rules under section 267(a) (2) and (3) governing when an amount owed to a related foreign person that is otherwise deductible under Chapter 1 may be deducted. Paragraph (b) of this section provides the general rules, and paragraph (c) of this section provides exceptions and special rules.
(b)
Deduction of amount owed to related foreign person
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, section 267(a)(3) requires a taxpayer to use the cash method of accounting with respect to the deduction of amounts owed to a related foreign person. An amount that is owed to a related foreign person and that is otherwise deductible under Chapter 1 thus may not be deducted by the taxpayer until such amount is paid to the related foreign person. For purposes of this section, a related foreign person is any person that is not a United States person within the meaning of section 7701(a)(30), and that is related (within the meaning of section 267(b)) to the taxpayer at the close of the taxable year in which the amount incurred by the taxpayer would otherwise be deductible. Section 267(f) defines
controlled group
for purposes of section 267(b) without regard to the limitations of section 1563(b). An amount is treated as paid for purposes of this section if the amount is considered paid for purposes of section 1441 or section 1442 (including an amount taken into account pursuant to section 884(f)).
(2)
Amounts covered.
This section applies to otherwise deductible amounts that are of a type described in section 871(a)(1) (A), (B) or (D), or in section 881(a) (1), (2) or (4). The rules of this section also apply to interest that is from sources outside the United States. Amounts other than interest that are from sources outside the United States, and that are not income of a related foreign person effectively connected with the conduct by such related foreign person of a trade or business within the United States, are not subject to the rules of section 267(a) (2) or (3) or this section. See paragraph (c) of this section for rules governing the treatment of amounts that are income of a related foreign person effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the United States by such related foreign person.
(3)
Change in method of accounting.
A taxpayer that uses a method of accounting other than that required by the rules of this section must change its method of accounting to conform its method to the rules of this section. The taxpayer's change in method must be made pursuant to the rules of section 446(e), the regulations thereunder, and any applicable administrative procedures prescribed by the Commissioner. Because the rules of this section prescribe a method of accounting, these rules apply in the determination of taxpayer's earnings and profits pursuant to § 1.1312-6(a).
(4)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (b) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
(i) FC, a corporation incorporated in Country X, owns 100 percent of the stock of C, a domestic corporation. C uses the accrual method of accounting in computing its income and deductions, and is a calendar year taxpayer. In Year 1, C accrues an amount owed to FC for interest. C makes an actual payment of the amount owed to FC in Year 2.
(ii) Regardless of its source, the interest owed to FC is an amount to which this section applies. Pursuant to the rules of this paragraph (b), the amount owed to FC by C will not be allowable as a deduction in Year 1. Section 267 does not preclude the deduction of this amount in Year 2.

# Example 2.
(i) RS, a domestic corporation, is the sole shareholder of FSC, a foreign sales corporation. Both RS and FSC use the accrual method of accounting. In Year 1, RS accrues $z owed to FSC for commissions earned by FSC in Year 1. Pursuant to the foreign sales company provisions, sections 921 through 927, a portion of this amount, $x, is treated as effectively connected income of FSC from sources outside the United States. Accordingly, the rules of section 267(a)(3) and paragraph (b) of this section do not apply. See paragraph (c) of this section for the rules governing the treatment of amounts that are effectively connected income of FSC.
