A debarment is not effective until the debarring official issues a decision. The debarring official does not issue a decision until the respondent has had an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.
§ 1006.815
How may I contest a proposed debarment?
If you as a respondent wish to contest a proposed debarment, you or your representative must provide the debarring official with information in opposition to the proposed debarment. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.
§ 1006.820
How much time do I have to contest a proposed debarment?
(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make arrangements to appear and present, the information and argument to the debarring official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Proposed Debarment.
(b) We consider the Notice of Proposed Debarment to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.
§ 1006.825
What information must I provide to the debarring official if I contest a proposed debarment?
(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the debarring official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment. Include any information about any of the factors listed in § 1006.860. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the debarment;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, State, or local agencies, including administrative
agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Proposed Debarment that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the Inter-American Foundation may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.
§ 1006.830
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which a proposed debarment is based?
(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) Your debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment; or
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the proposed debarment are not factual in nature, or are not material to the debarring official's decision whether to debar.
(b) You will have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the debarring official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.
§ 1006.835
Are debarment proceedings formal?
(a) Debarment proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The debarring official may use flexible procedures to allow you as a respondent to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the debarring official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base the decision whether to debar.
(b) You or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the debarring official to consider.
§ 1006.840
How is fact-finding conducted?
(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the Inter-American Foundation agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.
§ 1006.845
What does the debarring official consider in deciding whether to debar me?
(a) The debarring official may debar you for any of the causes in § 1006.800. However, the official need not debar you even if a cause for debarment exists. The official may consider the seriousness of your acts or omissions and the mitigating or aggravating factors set forth at § 1006.860.
(b) The debarring official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the debarring official's proposed debarment;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed debarment; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(c) The debarring official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The debarring official may reject any resultant findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.
§ 1006.850
What is the standard of proof in a debarment action?
(a) In any debarment action, we must establish the cause for debarment by a preponderance of the evidence.
(b) If the proposed debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the standard of proof is met.
§ 1006.855
Who has the burden of proof in a debarment action?
(a) We have the burden to prove that a cause for debarment exists.
(b) Once a cause for debarment is established, you as a respondent have the burden of demonstrating to the satisfaction of the debarring official that you are presently responsible and that debarment is not necessary.
§ 1006.860
What factors may influence the debarring official's decision?
This section lists the mitigating and aggravating factors that the debarring official may consider in determining whether to debar you and the length of your debarment period. The debarring official may consider other factors if appropriate in light of the circumstances of a particular case. The existence or nonexistence of any factor, such as one of those set forth in this section, is not necessarily determinative of your present responsibility. In making a debarment decision, the debarring official may consider the following factors:
(a) The actual or potential harm or impact that results or may result from the wrongdoing.
(b) The frequency of incidents and/or duration of the wrongdoing.
(c) Whether there is a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing. For example, if you have been found by another Federal agency or a State agency to have engaged in wrongdoing similar to that found in the debarment action, the existence of this fact may be used by the debarring official in determining that you have a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing.
(d) Whether you are or have been excluded or disqualified by an agency of the Federal Government or have not been allowed to participate in State or local contracts or assistance agreements on a basis of conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(e) Whether you have entered into an administrative agreement with a Federal agency or a State or local government that is not governmentwide but is based on conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(f) Whether and to what extent you planned, initiated, or carried out the wrongdoing.
(g) Whether you have accepted responsibility for the wrongdoing and recognize the seriousness of the misconduct that led to the cause for debarment.
(h) Whether you have paid or agreed to pay all criminal, civil and administrative liabilities for the improper activity, including any investigative or administrative costs incurred by the government, and have made or agreed to make full restitution.
(i) Whether you have cooperated fully with the government agencies during the investigation and any court or administrative action. In determining the extent of cooperation, the debarring official may consider when the cooperation began and whether you disclosed all pertinent information known to you.
(j) Whether the wrongdoing was pervasive within your organization.
(k) The kind of positions held by the individuals involved in the wrongdoing.
(l) Whether your organization took appropriate corrective action or remedial measures, such as establishing ethics training and implementing programs to prevent recurrence.
(m) Whether your principals tolerated the offense.
(n) Whether you brought the activity cited as a basis for the debarment to the attention of the appropriate government agency in a timely manner.
(o) Whether you have fully investigated the circumstances surrounding the cause for debarment and, if so, made the result of the investigation available to the debarring official.
(p) Whether you had effective standards of conduct and internal control systems in place at the time the questioned conduct occurred.
(q) Whether you have taken appropriate disciplinary action against the
individuals responsible for the activity which constitutes the cause for debarment.
(r) Whether you have had adequate time to eliminate the circumstances within your organization that led to the cause for the debarment.
(s) Other factors that are appropriate to the circumstances of a particular case.
§ 1006.865
How long may my debarment last?
(a) If the debarring official decides to debar you, your period of debarment will be based on the seriousness of the cause(s) upon which your debarment is based. Generally, debarment should not exceed three years. However, if circumstances warrant, the debarring official may impose a longer period of debarment.
(b) In determining the period of debarment, the debarring official may consider the factors in § 1006.860. If a suspension has preceded your debarment, the debarring official must consider the time you were suspended.
(c) If the debarment is for a violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, your period of debarment may not exceed five years.
§ 1006.870
When do I know if the debarring official debars me?
(a) The debarring official must make a written decision whether to debar within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the debarring official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The debarring official may extend that period for good cause.
(b) The debarring official sends you written notice, pursuant to § 1006.615 that the official decided, either—
(1) Not to debar you; or
(2) To debar you. In this event, the notice:
(i) Refers to the Notice of Proposed Debarment;
(ii) Specifies the reasons for your debarment;
(iii) States the period of your debarment, including the effective dates; and
(iv) Advises you that your debarment is effective for covered transactions and contracts that are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1), throughout the executive branch of the Federal Government unless an agency head or an authorized designee grants an exception.
§ 1006.875
May I ask the debarring official to reconsider a decision to debar me?
Yes, as a debarred person you may ask the debarring official to reconsider the debarment decision or to reduce the time period or scope of the debarment. However, you must put your request in writing and support it with documentation.
§ 1006.880
What factors may influence the debarring official during reconsideration?
The debarring official may reduce or terminate your debarment based on—
(a) Newly discovered material evidence;
(b) A reversal of the conviction or civil judgment upon which your debarment was based;
(c) A bona fide change in ownership or management;
(d) Elimination of other causes for which the debarment was imposed; or
(e) Other reasons the debarring official finds appropriate.
§ 1006.885
May the debarring official extend a debarment?
(a) Yes, the debarring official may extend a debarment for an additional period, if that official determines that an extension is necessary to protect the public interest.
(b) However, the debarring official may not extend a debarment solely on the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial debarment action was based.
(c) If the debarring official decides that a debarment for an additional period is necessary, the debarring official must follow the applicable procedures in this subpart, and subpart F of this part, to extend the debarment.

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 1006.900
Adequate evidence.
Adequate evidence
means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.
§ 1006.905
Affiliate.
Persons are
affiliates
of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other or a third person controls or has the power to control both. The ways we use to determine control include, but are not limited to—
(a) Interlocking management or ownership;
(b) Identity of interests among family members;
(c) Shared facilities and equipment;
(d) Common use of employees; or
(e) A business entity which has been organized following the exclusion of a person which has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the excluded person.
§ 1006.910
Agency.
Agency
means any United States executive department, military department, defense agency, or any other agency of the executive branch. Other agencies of the Federal government are not considered “agencies” for the purposes of this part unless they issue regulations adopting the governmentwide Debarment and Suspension system under Executive orders 12549 and 12689.
§ 1006.915
Agent or representative.
Agent or representative
means any person who acts on behalf of, or who is authorized to commit, a participant in a covered transaction.
§ 1006.920
Civil judgment.
Civil judgment
means the disposition of a civil action by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether by verdict, decision, settlement, stipulation, other disposition which creates a civil liability for the complained of wrongful acts, or a final determination of liability under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1988 (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812).
§ 1006.925
Conviction.
Conviction
means—
(a) A judgment or any other determination of guilt of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea, including a plea of nolo contendere; or
(b) Any other resolution that is the functional equivalent of a judgment, including probation before judgment and deferred prosecution. A disposition without the participation of the court is the functional equivalent of a judgment only if it includes an admission of guilt.
§ 1006.930
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a debarring official under subpart H of this part to exclude a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1). A person so excluded is debarred.
§ 1006.935
Debarring official.
(a)
Debarring official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose debarment. A debarring official is either—
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1006.940
Disqualified.
Disqualified
means that a person is prohibited from participating in specified Federal procurement or nonprocurement transactions as required under a statute, Executive order (other than Executive Orders 12549 and 12689) or other authority. Examples of disqualifications include persons prohibited under—
(a) The Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276(a));
(b) The equal employment opportunity acts and Executive orders; or
(c) The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7606), Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1368) and Executive Order 11738 (3 CFR, 1973 Comp., p. 799).
§ 1006.945
Excluded or exclusion.
Excluded or exclusion
means—
(a) That a person or commodity is prohibited from being a participant in
covered transactions, whether the person has been suspended; debarred; proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; voluntarily excluded; or
(b) The act of excluding a person.
§ 1006.950
Excluded Parties List System
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
means the list maintained and disseminated by the General Services Administration (GSA) containing the names and other information about persons who are ineligible. The
EPLS
system includes the printed version entitled, “List of Parties Excluded or Disqualified from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs,” so long as published.
§ 1006.955
Indictment.
Indictment
means an indictment for a criminal offense. A presentment, information, or other filing by a competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be given the same effect as an indictment.
§ 1006.960
Ineligible or ineligibility.
Ineligible or ineligibility
means that a person or commodity is prohibited from covered transactions because of an exclusion or disqualification.
§ 1006.965
Legal proceedings.
Legal proceedings
means any criminal proceeding or any civil judicial proceeding, including a proceeding under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812), to which the Federal Government or a State or local government or quasi-governmental authority is a party. The term also includes appeals from those proceedings.
§ 1006.970
Nonprocurement transaction.
(a)
Nonprocurement transaction
means any transaction, regardless of type (except procurement contracts), including, but not limited to the following:
(1) Grants.
(2) Cooperative agreements.
(3) Scholarships.
(4) Fellowships.
(5) Contracts of assistance.
(6) Loans.
(7) Loan guarantees.
(8) Subsidies.
(9) Insurances.
(10) Payments for specified uses.
(11) Donation agreements.
(b) A nonprocurement transaction at any tier does not require the transfer of Federal funds.
§ 1006.975
Notice.
Notice
means a written communication served in person, sent by certified mail or its equivalent, or sent electronically by e-mail or facsimile. (See § 1006.615.)
§ 1006.980
Participant.
Participant
means any person who submits a proposal for or who enters into a covered transaction, including an agent or representative of a participant.
§ 1006.985
Person.
Person
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government, or legal entity, however organized.
§ 1006.990
Preponderance of the evidence.
Preponderance of the evidence
means proof by information that, compared with information opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.
§ 1006.995
Principal.
Principal
means—
(a) An officer, director, owner, partner, principal investigator, or other person within a participant with management or supervisory responsibilities related to a covered transaction; or
(b) A consultant or other person, whether or not employed by the participant or paid with Federal funds, who—
(1) Is in a position to handle Federal funds;
(2) Is in a position to influence or control the use of those funds; or,
(3) Occupies a technical or professional position capable of substantially influencing the development or outcome of an activity required to perform the covered transaction.
§ 1006.1000
Respondent.
Respondent
means a person against whom an agency has initiated a debarment or suspension action.
§ 1006.1005
State.
(a)
State
means—
(1) Any of the states of the United States;
(2) The District of Columbia;
(3) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(4) Any territory or possession of the United States; or
(5) Any agency or instrumentality of a state.
(b) For purposes of this part,
State
does not include institutions of higher education, hospitals, or units of local government.
§ 1006.1010
Suspending official.
(a)
Suspending official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose suspension. The suspending official is either:
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1006.1015
Suspension.
Suspension
is an action taken by a suspending official under subpart G of this part that immediately prohibits a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) for a temporary period, pending completion of an agency investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A person so excluded is suspended.
§ 1006.1020
Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.
(a)
Voluntary exclusion
means a person's agreement to be excluded under the terms of a settlement between the person and one or more agencies. Voluntary exclusion must have governmentwide effect.
(b)
Voluntarily excluded
means the status of a person who has agreed to a voluntary exclusion.
Subpart J [Reserved]
Pt. 1006, App.

# Appendix to Part 1006—Covered Transactions
ER26NO03.000
Pt. 1007

# PART 1007—SALARY OFFSET
Sec.
1007.1
Purpose and scope.
1007.2
Definitions.
1007.3
Applicability.
1007.4
Notice requirements.
1007.5
Hearing.
1007.6
Written decision.
1007.7
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
1007.8
Procedures for salary offset.
1007.9
Refunds.
1007.10
Statute of limitations.
1007.11
Non-waiver of rights.
1007.12
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 5514, E.O. 12107, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 264; 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and 22 U.S.C. 290f(e)(11).

# Source:
57 FR 2837, Jan. 24, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1007.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This regulation provides procedures for the collection by administrative offset of a federal employee's salary without his/her consent to satisfy certain debts owed to the federal government. These regulations apply to all federal employees who owe debts to the Inter-American Foundation (IAF) and to current employees of the Inter-American Foundation who owe debts to other federal agencies. This regulation does not apply when the employee consents to recovery from his/her current pay account.
(b) This regulation does not apply to debts or claims arising under:
(1) The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.;
(2) The Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.;
(3) The tariff laws of the United States; or
(4) Any case where a collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.
(c) This regulation does not apply to any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's selection of coverage or a change in coverage under a federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less.
(d) This regulation does not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action where appropriate under the standards implementing the Federal Claims Collection Act, 31 U.S.C. 3711
et seq.,
4 CFR parts 101 through 105, 45 CFR part 1177.
(e) This regulation does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774 or 32 U.S.C. 716 or in any way questioning the amount or validity of the debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting Office. This regulation does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver pursuant to other statutory provisions applicable to the particular debt being collected.
(f) Matters not addressed in these regulations should be reviewed in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards at 4 CFR 101.1
et seq.
§ 1007.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of the part, the following definitions will apply:
Agency
means an executive agency as defined at 5 U.S.C. 105 including the U.S. Postal Service, the U.S. Postal Commission, a military department as defined at 5 U.S.C. 102, an agency or court in the judicial branch, an agency of the legislative branch including the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives and other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal government.
Creditor Agency
means the agency to which the debt is owed.
Debt
means an amount owed to the United States from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the United States from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interests, fines, forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and all other similar sources.
Disposable pay
means the amount that remains from an employee's federal pay after the required deductions for social security, federal, state or local income tax, health insurance premiums, retirement contributions, life insurance premiums, federal employment taxes, and any other deductions that are required to be withheld by law.
Hearing official
means an individual responsible for conducting any hearing with respect to the existence or amount of a debt claimed and who renders a decision on the basis of such hearing. A hearing official may not be under the supervision or control of the President of the Inter-American Foundation.
Paying Agency
means the agency that employs the individual who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his/her current pay.
President
means the President of the Inter-American Foundation or the President's designee.
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his/her consent.
§ 1007.3
Applicability.
(a) These regulations are to be followed when:
(1) The Inter-American Foundation is owed a debt by an individual currently employed by another federal agency;
(2) The Inter-American Foundation is owed a debt by an individual who is a current employee of the Inter-American Foundation; or
(3) The Inter-American Foundation employs an individual who owes a debt to another federal agency.
§ 1007.4
Notice requirements.
(a) Deductions shall not be made unless the employee is provided with written notice, signed by the President, of the debt at least 30 days before salary offset commences.
(b) The written notice shall contain:
(1) A statement that the debt is owed and an explanation of its nature and amount;
(2) The agency's intention to collect the debt by deducting from the employee's current disposable pay account;
(3) The amount, frequency, proposed beginning date, and duration of the intended deduction(s);
(4) An explanation of interest, penalties, and administrative charges, including a statement that such charges will be assessed unless excused in accordance with the Federal Claims Collections Standards at 4 CFR 101.1
et seq.;
(5) The employee's right to inspect, request, and receive a copy of government records relating to the debt;
(6) The opportunity to establish a written schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt;
(7) The right to a hearing conducted by an impartial hearing official;
(8) The methods and time period for petitioning for hearings;
(9) A statement that the timely filing of a petition for a hearing will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(10) A statement that a final decision on the hearing will be issued not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(11) A statement that knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to appropriate disciplinary procedures;
(12) A statement of other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made; and
(13) Unless there are contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, a statement that amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee.
§ 1007.5
Hearing.
(a)
Request for hearing.
(1) An employee must file a petition for a hearing in accordance with the instructions outlined in the agency's notice to offset.
(2) A hearing may be requested by filing a written petition addressed to the President of the Inter-American Foundation stating why the employee disputes the existence or amount of the debt. The petition for a hearing must be received by the President no later than fifteen (15) calendar days after the date of the notice to offset unless the employee can show good cause for failing to meet the deadline date.
(b)
Hearing procedures.
(1) The hearing will be presided over by an impartial hearing official.
(2) The hearing shall conform to procedures contained in the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR 102.3(c). The burden shall be on the employee to demonstrate that the existence or the amount of the debt is in error.
§ 1007.6
Written decision.
(a) The hearing official shall issue a written opinion no later than 60 days after the hearing.
(b) The written opinion will include: a statement of the facts presented to demonstrate the nature and origin of the alleged debt; the hearing official's analysis, findings and conclusions; the amount and validity of the debt, and the repayment schedule.
§ 1007.7
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
(a)
The Inter-American Foundation as the creditor agency.
(1) When the President determines that an employee of another federal agency owes a delinquent debt to the Inter-American Foundation, the President shall as appropriate:
(i) Arrange for a hearing upon the proper petitioning by the employee;
(ii) Certify to the paying agency in writing that the employee owes the debt, the amount and basis of the debt, the date on which payment is due, the date the Government's right to collect
the debt accrued, and that Foundation regulations for salary offset have been approved by the Office of Personnel Management;
(iii) If collection must be made in installments, the President must advise the paying agency of the amount or percentage of disposable pay to be collected in each installment;
(iv) Advise the paying agency of the actions taken under 5 U.S.C. 5514(b) and provide the dates on which action was taken unless the employee has consented to salary offset in writing or signed a statement acknowledging receipt of procedures required by law. The written consent or acknowledgment must be sent to the paying agency;
(v) If the employee is in the process of separating, the Foundation must submit its debt claim to the paying agency as provided in this part. The paying agency must certify any amounts already collected, notify the employee, and send a copy of the certification and notice of the employee's separation to the Inter-American Foundation. If the paying agency is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund or similar payments, it must certify to the agency responsible for making such payments the amount of the debt and that the provisions of 5 CFR 550.1108 have been followed; and
(vi) If the employee has already separated and all the payments due from the paying agency have been paid, the President may request unless otherwise prohibited, that money payable to the employee from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund or other similar funds be collected by administrative offset.
(b)
The Foundation as the paying agency.
(1) Upon receipt of a properly certified debt claim from another agency, deductions will be scheduled to begin at the next established pay interval. The employee must receive written notice that the Inter-American Foundation has received a certified debt claim from the creditor agency, the amount of the debt, the date salary offset will begin, and the amount of the deduction(s). The Inter-American Foundation shall not review the merits of the creditor agency's determination of the validity or the amount of the certified claim.
(2) If the employee transfers to another agency after the creditor agency has submitted its debt claim to the Inter-American Foundation and before the debt is collected completely, the Inter-American Foundation must certify the total amount collected. One copy of the certification must be furnished to the employee. A copy must be furnished to the creditor agency with notice of the employee's transfer.
§ 1007.8
Procedures for salary offset.
(a) Deductions to liquidate an employee's debt will be by the method and in the amount stated in the President's notice of intention to offset as provided in § 1007.4. Debts will be collected in one lump sum where possible. If the employee is financially unable to pay in one lump sum, collection must be made in installments.
(b) Debts will be collected by deduction at officially established pay intervals from an employee's current pay account unless alternative arrangements for repayment are made.
(c) Installment deductions will be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of employment. The size of installment deductions must bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. The deduction for the pay interval for any period must not exceed 15% of disposable pay unless the employee has agreed in writing to a deduction of a greater amount.
(d) Unliquidated debts may be offset against any financial payment due to a separated employee including but not limited to final salary or leave payments in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716.
§ 1007.9
Refunds.
(a) The Inter-American Foundation will refund promptly any amounts deducted to satisfy debts owed to the IAF when the debt is waived, found not owed to the IAF, or when directed by an administrative or judicial order.
(b) The creditor agency will promptly return any amounts deducted by IAF to satisfy debts owed to the creditor agency when the debt is waived, found
not owed, or when directed by an administrative or judicial order.
(c) Unless required by law, refunds under this subsection shall not bear interest.
§ 1007.10
Statute of limitations.
If a debt has been outstanding for more than 10 years after the agency's right to collect the debt first accrued, the agency may not collect by salary offset unless facts material to the Government's right to collect were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the official or officials who were charged with the responsibility for discovery and collection of such debts.
§ 1007.11
Non-waiver of rights.
An employee's involuntary payment of all or any part of a debt collected under these regulations will not be construed as a waiver of any rights that employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law unless there are statutes or contract(s) to the contrary.
§ 1007.12
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Charges may be assessed for interest, penalties, and administrative costs in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 4 CFR 102.13.
Pt. 1008

# PART 1008—GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
Sec.
1008.100
What does this part do?
1008.105
Does this part apply to me?
1008.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
1008.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
1008.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
1008.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
1008.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
1008.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
1008.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
1008.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
1008.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
1008.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
1008.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Inter-American Foundation Awarding Officials
1008.400
What are my responsibilities as an Inter-American Foundation awarding official?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
1008.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
1008.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
1008.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
1008.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?

# Subpart F—Definitions
1008.605
Award.
1008.610
Controlled substance.
1008.615
Conviction.
1008.620
Cooperative agreement.
1008.625
Criminal drug statute.
1008.630
Debarment.
1008.635
Drug-free workplace.
1008.640
Employee.
1008.645
Federal agency or agency.
1008.650
Grant.
1008.655
Individual.
1008.660
Recipient.
1008.665
State.
1008.670
Suspension.

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.

# Source:
68 FR 66590, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 1008.100
What does this part do?
This part carries out the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.,
as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.
§ 1008.105
Does this part apply to me?
(a) Portions of this part apply to you if you are either—
(1) A recipient of an assistance award from the Inter-American Foundation; or
(2) A(n) Inter-American Foundation awarding official. (See definitions of award and recipient in §§ 1008.605 and 1008.660, respectively.)
(b) The following table shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are . . .
see subparts . . .
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, B and E.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, C and E.
(3) A(n) Inter-American Foundation awarding official
A, D and E.
§ 1008.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award that the Inter-American Foundation President or designee determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.
§ 1008.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?
It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 1008.510(c). However, this part does not apply directly to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations (the drug-free workplace coverage currently is in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5).

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 1008.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part. The specific measures that you must take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees (see §§ 1008.205 through 1008.220); and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace (see § 1008.225).
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards (see § 1008.230).
§ 1008.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more
than five calendar days after the conviction.
§ 1008.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 1008.205 be given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.
§ 1008.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
§ 1008.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 1008.205 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 1008.215, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the Inter-American Foundation awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.
§ 1008.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 1008.205(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either—
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
§ 1008.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?
(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each Inter-American Foundation award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces—
(1) To the Inter-American Foundation official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by Inter-American Foundation officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (
e.g.
, all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the Inter-American Foundation awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the Inter-American Foundation awarding official.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 1008.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
As a condition of receiving a(n) Inter-American Foundation award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the Inter-American Foundation awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 1008.301 or the award document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point, it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.
§ 1008.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Inter-American Foundation Awarding Officials
§ 1008.400
What are my responsibilities as a(n) Inter-American Foundation awarding official?
As a(n) Inter-American Foundation awarding official, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in—
(a) Subpart B of this part, if the recipient is not an individual; or
(b) Subpart C of this part, if the recipient is an individual.

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 1008.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Inter-American Foundation President or designee determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 1008.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Inter-American Foundation President or designee determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 1008.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 1008.500 or § 1008.505, the Inter-American Foundation may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 22 CFR part 1006, for a period not to exceed five years.
§ 1008.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The Inter-American Foundation may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the Inter-American Foundation determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 1008.605
Award.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the Inter-American Foundation or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the grant is exempted from coverage under the Governmentwide rule [Agency-specific CFR citation] that implements OMB Circular A-102 (for availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3) and specifies uniform administrative requirements.
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (
i.e.
, any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, this paragraph is not applicable for the Inter-American Foundation.
§ 1008.610
Controlled substance.
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
§ 1008.615
Conviction.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
§ 1008.620
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in § 1008.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 1008.625
Criminal drug statute.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
§ 1008.630
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and
the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.
§ 1008.635
Drug-free workplace.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
§ 1008.640
Employee.
(a)
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (
e.g.
, volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).
§ 1008.645
Federal agency or agency.
Federal agency or agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
§ 1008.650
Grant.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 1008.655
Individual.
Individual
means a natural person.
§ 1008.660
Recipient.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
§ 1008.665
State.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 1008.670
Suspension.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.
PARTS 1009-1099 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. XI (4-1-25 Edition)
International Boundary and Water Commission

# CHAPTER XI—INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND MEXICO, UNITED STATES SECTION
Part
Page
1100
Employee responsibilities and conduct
311
1101
Privacy Act of 1974
311
1102
Freedom of Information Act
322
1103
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
331
1104
Protection of archaeological resources
337
1105-1199
[Reserved]
Pt. 1100

# PART 1100—EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7301.

# Source:
71 FR 25934, May 3, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1100.1
Cross-references to employee ethical conduct standards, financial disclosure and financial interests regulations and other conduct rules.
Employees of the United States Section of the International Boundary and Water Commission are subject to the executive branch standards of ethical conduct contained in 5 CFR part 2635, the executive branch financial disclosure regulations contained in 5 CFR part 2634, and the executive branch financial interests regulations contained in 5 CFR part 2640, as well as the executive branch employee responsibilities and conduct regulations contained in 5 CFR part 735.
Pt. 1101

# PART 1101—PRIVACY ACT OF 1974
Sec.
1101.1
Purpose and scope.
1101.2
Definitions.
1101.3
General policy: Collection and use of personal information.
1101.4
Reports on new systems of records; computer matching programs.
1101.5
Security, confidentiality and protection of records.
1101.6
Requests for access to records.
1101.7
Disclosure of records to individuals who are subjects of those records.
1101.8
Disclosure of records to third parties.
1101.9
Exemptions.
1101.10
Accounting for disclosures.
1101.11
Fees.
1101.12
Request to correct or amend a record.
1101.13
Agency review of request to correct or amend a record.
1101.14
Appeal of Agency decision not to correct or amend a record.
1101.15
Judicial review.
1101.16
Criminal penalties.
1101.17
Annual Report to Congress.

# Authority:
Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a).

# Source:
57 FR 24945, June 12, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1101.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of these regulations is to prescribe responsibilities, rules, guidelines, and policies and procedures to implement the Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-579, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 552a) to assure that personal information about individuals collected by the United States Section is limited to that which is legally authorized and necessary and is maintained in a manner which precludes unwarranted intrusions upon individual privacy. Further, these regulations establish procedures by which an individual can: (a) Determine if the United States Section maintains records or a system of records which includes a record pertaining to the individual and (b) gain access to a record pertaining to him or her for the purpose of review, amendment or correction.
§ 1101.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of these regulations:
(a)
Act
means the Privacy Act of 1974.
(b)
Agency
is defined to include any executive department, military department, Government corporation, Government controlled corporation or other establishment in the executive branch of the Government (including the Executive Office of the President, or any independent regulatory agency) (5 U.S.C. 552)).
(c)
Commission
means the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico.
(d)
Commissioner
means head of the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico.
(e)
Individual
means a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
(f)
Maintain
includes maintain, collect, use, or disseminate.
(g)
Record
means any item, collection, or grouping of information about an individual that is maintained by an agency, including, but not limited to, his education, financial transactions, medical history, and criminal or employment history and that contains his name, or the identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual, such as a finger or voice print or a photograph.
(h)
Routine use
means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of
such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it is collected.
(i)
Section
means the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico.
(j)
Statistical record
means a record in a system of records maintained for statistical research or reporting purposes only and not used in whole or in part in making any determination about an identifiable individual, except as provided by 13 U.S.C. 8 (Census data).
(k)
System of records
means a group of any records under the control of any agency from which information is retrieved by the name of the individual or by some identifying number, symbol, or other identifying particular assigned to the individual.
§ 1101.3
General policy: Collection and use of personal information.
(a) Heads of Divisions, Branches, and the projects shall ensure that all Section personnel subject to their supervision are advised of the provisions of the Act, including the criminal penalties and civil liabilities provided therein, and that Section personnel are made aware of their responsibilities to protect the security of personal information, to assure its accuracy, relevance, timeliness and completeness, to avoid unauthorized disclosure either orally or in writing, and to ensure that no system of records concerning individuals, no matter how small or specialized, is maintained without public notice.
(b) Section personnel shall:
(1) Collect no information of a personal nature from individuals unless authorized to collect it to achieve a function or carry out a responsibility or function of the Section.
(2) Collect from individuals only that information which is necessary to Section responsibilities or functions;
(3) Collect information, wherever possible, directly from the individual to whom it relates;
(4) Inform individuals from whom information is collected of the authority for collection, the purpose thereof, the uses that will be made of the information, and the effects, both legal and practical, of not furnishing the information;
(5) Neither collect, maintain, use nor disseminate information concerning an individual's religious or political beliefs or activities or his membership in associations or organizations, unless (i) the individual has volunteered such information for his own benefit; (ii) the information is expressly authorized by statute to be collected, maintained, used or disseminated; or (iii) the activities involved are pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized investigation or adjudication activity;
(6) Advise an individual's supervisors of the existence or contemplated development of any system of records which retrieves information about individuals by individual identified;
(7) Maintain an accounting of all disclosures of information to other than Section personnel;
(8) Disclose no information concerning individuals to other than Section personnel except when authorized by the Act or pursuant to a routine use published in the
Federal Register
;
(9) Maintain and process information concerning individuals with care in order to ensure that no inadvertent disclosure of the information is made to other than Section personnel; and
(10) Call to the attention of the PA Officer any information in a system maintained by the Section which is not authorized to be maintained under the provisions of the Act, including information on First Amendment activities, information that is inaccurate, irrelevant or so incomplete as to risk unfairness to the individual concerned.
(c) The system of records maintained by the Section shall be reviewed annually by the PA Officer to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Act.
(d) Information which may be used in making determinations about an individual's rights, benefits, and privileges shall, to the greatest extent practicable, be collected directly from that individual. In deciding whether collection of information from an individual, as opposed to a third party source, is practicable, the following criteria, among others, may be considered:
(1) Whether the nature of the information sought is such that it can only be obtained from a third party;
(2) Whether the cost of collecting the information from the individual is unreasonable when compared with the cost of collecting it from a third party;
(3) Whether there is a risk that information requested from the third parties, if inaccurate, could result in an adverse determination to the individual concerned;
(4) Whether the information, if supplied by the individual, would have to be verified by a third party; or
(5) Whether provisions can be made for verification by the individual of information collected from third parties.
(e) Employees whose duties require handling of records subject to the Act shall, at all times, take care to protect the integrity, security and confidentiality of these records.
(f) No employee of the section may alter or destroy a record subject to the Act unless (1) such alteration or destruction is properly undertaken in the course of the employee's regular duties or (2) such alteration or destruction is required by a decision of the Commissioner or the decision of a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 1101.4
Reports on new systems of records; computer matching programs.
(a) Before establishing any new systems of records, or making any significant change in a system of records, the Section shall provide adequate advance notice to:
(1) The Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives;
(2) The Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
(3) The Office of Management and Budget.
(b) Before participating in any computerized information “matching program,” as that term is defined by 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(8) the Section will comply with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(o), and will provide adequate advance notice as described in § 1101.4(a) above.
§ 1101.5
Security, confidentiality and protection of records.
(a) The Act requires that records subject to the Act be maintained with appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of records and to protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to their security or integrity which could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience or unfairness to any individual on whom information is maintained.
(b) When maintained in manual form (typed, printed, handwritten, etc.) records shall be maintained, at a minimum, subject to the following safeguards, or safeguards affording comparable protection:
(1) Areas in which the records are maintained or regularly used shall be posted with an appropriate warning stating that access to the records is limited to authorized persons. The warning shall also summarize the requirements of § 1101.3 and state that the Act contains a criminal penalty for the unauthorized dislosure of records to which it applies.
(2) During working hours: (i) The area in which the records are maintained or regularly used shall be occupied by authorized personnel or (ii) access to the records shall be restricted by their storage in locked metal file cabinets or a locked room.
(3) During non-working hours, access to the records shall be restricted by their storage in locked metal file cabinets or a locked room.
(4) Where a locked room is the method of security provided for a system, that security shall be supplemented by: (i) Providing lockable file cabinets or containers for the records or (ii) changing the lock or locks for the room so that they may not be opened with a master key. For purposes of this paragraph, a master key is a key which may be used to open rooms other than the room containing records subject to the Act, unless those rooms are utilized by officials or employees authorized to have access to the records subject to the Act.
(5) Personnel handling personal information during routine use will ensure that the information is properly controlled to prevent unintentional or unauthorized disclosure. Such information will be used, held, or stored only
where facilities or conditions are adequate to prevent unauthorized or unintentional disclosure.
(c) When the records subject to the Act are maintained in computerized form, safeguards shall be utilized based on those recommended in the National Bureau of Standard's booklet “Computer Security Guidelines for Implementing the Privacy Act of 1974” (May 30, 1975), and any supplements thereto, which are adequate and appropriate to assuring the integrity of the records.
§ 1101.6
Requests for access to records.
(a) Any individual may submit an inquiry to the Section to ascertain whether a system of records contains a record pertaining to him or her.
(b) The inquiry should be made either in person or by mail addressed to the PA Officer, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, Suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422. The PA Officer shall provide assistance to the individual making the inquiry to assure the timely identification of the appropriate systems of records. The office of the PA Officer is located in Suite C-316 and is open to an individual between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday (excluding holidays).
(c) Inquiries submitted by mail should be marked “PRIVACY ACT REQUEST” on the bottom left-hand corner of the envelope.
(d) The letter should state that the request is being made under the Privacy Act.
(e) Inquiries concerning whether a system of records contains a record pertaining to an individual should contain the following:
(1) Name, address and telephone number (optional) of the individual making the inquiry;
(2) Name, address and telephone number (optional) of the individual to whom the record pertains, if the inquiring individual is either the parent of a minor or the legal guardian of the individual to whom a record pertains;
(3) A certified or authenticated copy of documents establishing parentage or guardianship;
(4) Whether the individual to whom the record pertains is a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence into the United States;
(5) Name of the system of records, as published in the
Federal Register
;
(6) Location of the system of records, as published in the
Federal Register
;
(7) Such additional information as the individual believes will or might assist the Section in responding to the inquiry and in verifying the individual's identity (for example: date of birth, place of birth, names of parents, place of work, dates of employment, position title, etc.);
(8) Date of inquiry; and
(9) Signature of the requester.
The Section reserves the right to require compliance with the identification procedures appearing at paragraph (f) of this section where conditions warrant.
(f) The requirement for identification of individuals seeking access to records are as follows:
(1) In person: Each individual making a request in person shall be required to present satisfactory proof of identity. The means of proof, in the order of preference and priority, are:
(i) A document bearing the individual's photograph (for example, driver's license, passport or military or civilian identification card);
(ii) A document bearing the individual's signature, preferably issued for participation in a federally sponsored program (for example, Social Security card, unemployment insurance book, employer's identification card, national credit card and professional, craft or union membership card); and
(iii) A document bearing either the photograph or the signature of the individual, preferably issued for participation in a federally sponsored program (for example, Medicaid card). In the event the individual can provide no suitable documentation of identity, the Section will require a signed statement asserting the individual's identity and stipulating that the individual understands the penalty provision of 5 U.S.C. 552a(i)(3).
(2) Not in person: If the individual making a request does not appear in person before the PA Officer, a certificate of a notary public or equivalent
officer empowered to administer oaths must accompany the request.
(3) Parents of minors and legal guardians: An individual acting as the parent of a minor or the legal guardian of the individual or an heir or legal representative of a deceased person to whom a record pertains shall establish his or her personal identity in the manner prescribed in either paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section. In addition, such individual shall establish his or her identity in the representative capacity of parent or legal guardian. In the case of the parent of a minor, the proof of identity shall be a certified or authenticated copy of the minor's birth certificate. In the case of a legal guardian of an individual who has been declared incompetent due to physical or mental incapacity or age by a court of competent jurisdiction, the proof of identity shall be a certified or authenticated copy of the court's order. A parent or legal guardian may act only for a living individual, not for a decedent. A parent or legal guardian may be accompanied during personal access to a record by another individual, provided the requirements of paragraph (f) of § 1101.7 are satisfied. In the case of an heir or legal representative of a deceased person the proof of identity shall be a certified copy of the Will, if any; the order of a court of competent jurisdiction admitting the Will to probate; the order of a court of competent jurisdiction appointing an executor, executrix, or administrator; a letter of administration; or any other documentary evidence which establishes the identity of the individual as an heir or legal representative of a deceased person.
(g) When the provisions of this part are alleged to have the effect of impeding an individual in exercising his or her right to access, the Section will consider, from an individual making a request, alternative suggestions regarding proof of identity and access to records.
(h) An inquiry which is not addressed as specified in paragraph (b) of this section or which is not marked as specified in paragraph (c) of this section will be so addressed and marked by the Section's personnel and forwarded immediately to the PA Officer. An inquiry which is not properly addressed by the individual will not be deemed to have been “received” for purposes of measuring time periods for response until forwarding of the inquiry to the PA Officer has been effected. In each instance when an inquiry so forwarded is received, the PA Officer shall notify the individual that his or her inquiry was improperly addressed and the date when the inquiry was received at the proper address.
(i) Each inquiry received shall be acted upon promptly by the PA Officer. Although there is no fixed time when an agency must respond to a request for access to records under the Act, every effort will be made to respond within ten (10) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) of the date of receipt. If a response cannot be made within ten (10) days, the PA Officer shall send an acknowledgment during that period providing information on the status of the inquiry and asking for such further information as may be necessary to process the inquiry. Every effort will be made to provide the requested records within thirty (30) days.
(j) An individual shall not be required to state a reason or otherwise justify his or her inquiry.
§ 1101.7
Disclosure of records to individuals who are subjects of those records.
(a) Each request received shall be acted upon promptly by the PA Officer. Every effort will be made to respond within ten (10) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays) of the date of receipt. If a response cannot be made within ten (10) days due to unusual circumstances, the PA Officer shall send an acknowledgment during that period providing information on the status of the request and asking for such further information as may be necessary to process the request. Every effort will be made to provide the requested records within thirty (30) days. “Unusual circumstances” shall include circumstances where a search for and collection of requested records from inactive storage, field facilities or other establishments are required, cases where a voluminous amount of data is involved, instances where information on other individuals must be separated
or expunged from the particular record, and cases where consultations with other agencies having a substantial interest in the determination of the request are necessary.
(b) Grant of access:
(1) Notification.
(i) An individual shall be granted access to a record pertaining to him or her except where the record is subject to an exemption under the Act and these rules.
(ii) The PA Officer shall notify the individual of such determination and provide the following information:
(A) The methods of access, as set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(B) The place at which the records may be inspected;
(C) The earliest date on which the record may be inspected and the period of time that the records will remain available for inspection. In no event shall the earliest date be later than thirty (30) days from the date of notification;
(D) The estimated date by which a copy of the record could be mailed and the estimate of fees pursuant to § 1101.11. In no event shall be estimated date be later than thirty (30) days from the date of notification;
(E) The fact that the individual, if he or she wishes, may be accompanied by another individual during the personal access, subject to the procedures set forth in paragraph (f) of this section; and
(F) Any additional requirements needed to grant access to a specific record.
(2) Method of access: The following methods of access to records by an individual may be available depending on the circumstances of a given situation:
(i) Inspection in person may be made in the office specified by the PA Officer, between the hours of 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday (excluding holidays);
(ii) Transfer of records to a Federal facility more convenient to the individual may be arranged, but only if the PA Officer determines that a suitable facility is available, that the individual's access can be properly supervised at that facility, and that transmittal of the records to that facility will not unduly interfere with operations of the section or involve unreasonable costs, in terms of both money and manpower; and
(iii) Copies may be mailed at the request of the individual, subject to payment of the fees prescribed in § 1101.11. The Section, at its own initiative, may elect to provide a copy by mail, in which case no fee will be charged to the individual.
(c) Access to medical records: Upon advice by a physician that release of medical information directly to the requester could have an adverse effect on the requester, the Section may attempt to arrange an acceptable alternative. This will normally involve release of such information to a physician named by the requester, with the requester's written consent. (Note that release to any third party, including a physician or family member, must comply with the provisions of § 1101.8 of this part.)
(d) The Section shall supply such other information and assistance at the time of access to make the record intelligible to the individual.
(e) The Section reserves the right to limit access to copies and abstracts of original records, rather than the original records. This election would be appropriate, for example, when the record is in an automated data media such as tape of disc, when the record contains information on other individuals, and when deletion of information is permissible under exemptions (for example 5, U.S.C. 552(k)(1)). In no event shall original records of the Section be made available to the individual except under the immediate supervision of the PA Officer or his designee. Title 18 U.S.C. 2701(a) makes it a crime to conceal, mutilate, obliterate, or destroy a record filed in a public office, or to attempt to do any of the foregoing.
(f) Any individual who requests access to a record pertaining to that individual may be accompanied by another individual of his or her choice. “Accompanied” includes discussion of the record in the presence of the other individual. The individual to whom the record pertains shall authorize the presence of the other individual in writing and shall include the name of the other individual, a specific description of the record to which access is
sought, and the date and the signature of the individual to whom the record pertains. The other individual shall sign the authorization in the presence of the PA Officer or his designee. An individual shall not be required to state a reason or otherwise justify his or her decision to be accompanied by another individual during the personal access to a record.
(g) Initial denial of access:
(1) Grounds. Access by an individual to a record which pertains to that individual will be denied only upon a determination by the PA Officer that:
(i) The record is subject to an exemption under the Act and these rules;
(ii) The record is information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding;
(iii) The provisions of § 1101.7(c) pertaining to medical records have been temporarily invoked; or
(iv) The individual unreasonably has failed to comply with the procedural requirements of these rules.
(2) Notification. The PA Officer shall give notice of denial of access of records to the individual in writing and shall include the following information:
(i) The PA Officer's name and title or position;
(ii) The date of denial;
(iii) The reasons for the denial, including citation to the appropriate section of the Act and these rules;
(iv) The individual's opportunities for further administrative consideration, including the identity and address of the responsible official;
(v) If stated to be administratively final within the Section, the individual's right to judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 552a(g) (1) and (5).
(3) Administrative review: When an initial denial of a request is issued by the PA Officer, the individual's opportunities for further consideration shall be as follows:
(i) As to denial under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, the sole procedure is a petition for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule under 5 U.S.C. 553(e). Such petition shall be filed with the Commissioner, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, Suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422. If the exception was determined by another agency, the PA Officer will provide the individual with the name and address of the other agency and any relief sought by the individual shall be that provided by the regulations of the other agency. Within the Section, no such denial is administratively final until such a petition has been filed by the individual and disposed of on the merits by the Commissioner.
(ii) As to denial under paragraphs (g)(1), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section, the individual may file for review with the Commissioner, as indicated in the PA Officer's initital denial notification.
(h) If a request is partially granted and partially denied, the PA Officer shall follow the appropriate procedures of this section as to the records within the grant and the records within the denial.
§ 1101.8
Disclosure of records to third-parties.
(a) The Section will not disclose any information about an individual to any person other than the individual except in the following instances:
(1) Upon written request by the individual about whom the information is maintained;
(2) With prior written consent of the individual about whom the information is maintained;
(3) To the parent(s) of a minor child, or the legal guardian of an incompetent person, when said parent(s) or legal guardian act(s) on behalf of said minor or incompetent person.
(4) When permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) (1) through (11) which provides as follows:
(i) To those officers and employees of the agency which maintains the record who have a need for the record in the performance of their duties;
(ii) Required under 5 U.S.C. 552 of the U.S. Code;
(iii) For a routine use as defined in the Act at 5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(7);
(iv) To the Bureau of the Census for purposes of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to the provisions of title 13 of the U.S. Code;
(v) To a recipient who has provided the agency with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred in a form that is not individually identifiable;
(vi) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the United States Government, or for evaluation by the Administrator of General Services or his designee to determine whether the record has such value;
(vii) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the agency which maintains the record specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought;
(viii) To a person pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual if upon such disclosure notification is transmitted to the last known address of such individual;
(ix) To either House of Congress, or, to the extent of matter within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee, and to a Congressman who is acting on behalf of his constituent;
(x) To the Comptroller General, or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office; or
(xi) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
(5) When required by the Act and not covered explicitly by the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(b). These situations include the following:
(i) Dissemination of a corrected or amended record or notation of a disagreement statement (5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(4));
(ii) Disclosure of records to an individual to whom they pertain (5 U.S.C. 552a(d));
(iii) Civil actions by an individual (5 U.S.C. 552a(g));
(iv) Release of records or information to the Privacy Protection Study Commission (Section 5 of Pub. L. 93-579);
(v) Fulfill the needs of Office of Management and Budget to provide continuing oversight and assistance to the section in implementation of the Act (Section 6 of Pub. L. 93-579).
§ 1101.9
Exemptions.
The following are exempt from disclosure under 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) and (k):
(a) Any record originated by another agency which has determined that the record is exempt. If a request encompasses such a record, the Section will advise the requester of its existence, and of the name and address of the source agency.
(b) Records specifically authorized under criteria established by an executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy, and which are, in fact, properly classified pursuant to such executive order.
(c) Those systems of records listed as exempt in the Notice of Records of the
Federal Register
, including: Certificates of Medical Examination; Occupational Health and Injury Files; and Investigative Records.
§ 1101.10
Accounting for disclosures.
(a) Each system manager shall establish a system of accounting for all disclosures of records, either orally or in writing made outside the Section, unless otherwise exempted under this section. Accounting procedures may be established in the least expensive and most convenient form that will permit the PA Officer to advise individuals promptly upon request of the persons or agencies to which records concerning them have been disclosed. Accounting of disclosures made under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(7) relating to civil or criminal law enforcement activities shall not be made available to the individual named in the record.
(b) Accounting records, at a minimum, shall include the date, nature, and purpose of each disclosure of a
record and the name and address of the person or agency to whom the disclosure was made. Accounting records shall be maintained for at least five years or the life of the record, whichever is longer.
(c) Accounting is not required to be kept for disclosure made within the Section or disclosures made pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act.
(d) If an accounting of the disclosure was made, the PA Officer shall inform any person or other agency about any correction or notation of dispute made by the Section in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(d) of any record that has been disclosed to the person or agency.
§ 1101.11
Fees.
(a) Under the Act, fees can only be charged for the cost of copying records. No fees may be charged for the time it takes to search for the records or for the time it takes to determine if any exemptions apply. The Section will not charge a fee for the first copy of an individual's personnel record.
(b) The Section will charge a fee of $0.10 per page for copies of documents which are identified by an individual and reproduced at the individual's request for retention, except that there will be no charge for requests involving costs of $1.00 or less, but the copying fees for contemporaneous request by the same individual shall be aggregated to determine the total fee.
(c) Special and additional services provided at the request of the individual, such as certification or authentication, will be charged to the individual in accordance with other published regulations of the Section pursuant to statute (for example, 22 CFR part 1102—Freedom of Information Act.)
(d) Remittances shall be in the form of either a personal check or bank draft drawn on a bank in the United States, a postal money order, or cash. Remittance shall be made payable to the order of the U.S. Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, and delivered to or mailed to the PA Officer, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, Suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422. The Section will assume no responsibility for cash sent by mail.
(e) A receipt for fees paid will be given only upon request.
§ 1101.12
Request to correct or amend a record.
(a) Any individual may submit a request for correction of or amendment to a record to the Section. The request should be made either in person or by mail addressed to the PA Officer who processed the individual's request for access to the record, and to whom is delegated authority to make initial determinations on requests for correction or amendment.
(b) Since the request, in all cases, will follow a request for access under § 1101.6, the individual's identity will be established by his or her signature on the request.
(c) A request for correction or amendment should be in writing. The envelope containing the request should be marked “Privacy Act Amendment Request” on the lower left hand corner. The request should include the following:
(1) First, the letter should state that it is a request to amend a record under the Privacy Act of 1974.
(2) Second, the request should identify the specific record and the specific information in the record for which an amendment is being sought.
(3) Third, the request should state why the information is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete. Supporting evidence may be included with the request.
(4) Fourth, the request should state what new or additional information, if any, should be included in place of the erroneous information. Evidence of the validity of new or additional information should be included. If the information in the file is wrong and needs to be removed rather than supplemented or corrected, the request should make this clear.
(5) Fifth, the request should include the name, address, and telephone number (optional) of the requester.
§ 1101.13
Agency review of request to correct or amend a record.
(a) (1) Not later than ten (10) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays) after receipt of a request to correct or amend a record, the PA Officer shall send an acknowledgment providing an estimate of time within which action will be taken on the request and asking for such further information as may be necessary to process the request. The estimate of time may take into account unusual circumstances as described in § 1101.7(a). No acknowledgment will be sent if the request can be reviewed, processed and the individual notified of the results of review (either compliance or denial) within ten (10) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays). Requests filed in person will be acknowledged in writing at the time submitted.
(2) Promptly after acknowledging receipt of a request, or after receiving such further information as might have been requested, or after arriving at a decision within ten (10) days, the PA Officer shall either:
(i) Make the requested correction or amendment and advise the individual in writing of such action, providing either a copy of the corrected or amended record or a statement as to the means whereby the correction or amendment was effected in cases where a copy cannot be provided (for example, erasure of information from a record maintained only in an electronic data bank); or
(ii) Inform the individual in writing that his or her request is denied and provide the following information:
(A) The PA Officer's name, title and position;
(B) The date of denial;
(C) The reasons for the denial, including citation to the appropriate sections of the Act and these rules;
(D) The procedures for appeal of the denial as set forth in § 1101.14.
The term promptly in this paragraph means within thirty (30) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays). If the PA Officer cannot make the determination within thirty (30) days, the individual will be advised in writing of the reason therefor and of the estimated date by which the determination will be made.
(b) Whenever an individual's record is corrected or amended pursuant to a request by that individual, the PA Officer shall notify all persons and agencies to which copies of the record had been disclosed prior to its correction or amendment, if an accounting of such disclosure required by the Act was made. The notification shall require a receipt agency maintaining the record to acknowledge receipt of the notification, to correct or amend the record, and to apprise any agency or person to which it has disclosed the record of the substance of the correction or amendment.
(c) The following criteria will be considered by the PA Officer in reviewing a request for correction or amendment.
(1) The sufficiency of the evidence submitted by the individual;
(2) The factual accuracy of the information;
(3) The relevance and necessity of the information in terms of purpose for which it was collected.
(4) The timeliness and currency of the information in light of the purpose for which it was collected;
(5) The completeness of the information in terms of the purpose for which it was collected;
(6) The degree of possibility that denial of the request could unfairly result in determinations adverse to the individual;
(7) The character of the record sought to be corrected or amended; and
(8) The propriety and feasibility of complying with the specific means of correction or amendment requested by the individual.
(d) The Section will not undertake to gather evidence for the individual, but does reserve the right to verify the evidence which the individual submits.
(e) Correction or amendment of a record requested by an individual will be denied only upon a determination by the PA Officer that:
(1) The individual has failed to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, the propriety of the correction or amendment in light of the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) The record sought to be corrected or amended was compiled in a terminated judicial, quasi-judicial or quasi-legislative proceeding to which the individual was a party or participant;
(3) The record sought to be corrected or amended is the subject of a pending
judicial, quasi-judicial or quasi-legislative proceeding to which the individual is a party or participant;
(4) The correction or amendment would violate a duly enacted statute or promulgated regulation; or
(5) The individual unreasonably has failed to comply with the procedural requirements of these rules.
(f) If a request is partially granted and partially denied, the PA Officer shall follow the appropriate procedures of this section as to the records within the grant and the records within the denial.
§ 1101.14
Appeal of agency decision not to correct or amend a record.
(a) An appeal of the initial refusal to amend a record under § 1101.13 may be requested by the individual who submitted the request. The appeal must be requested in writing, and state that the appeal is being made under the Privacy Act of 1974, it should identify the denial that is being appealed and the records that were withheld, it should include the requester's name and address and telephone number (optional), and it should be signed by the individual making the request. It should be received by the Section within sixty (60) calendar days of the date the individual is informed of the PA Officer's refusal to amend a record in whole or in part. The request should be addressed and sent via certified mail to the Commissioner, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422. The processing of appeals will be facilitated if the words “PRIVACY APPEAL” appear in capital letters on both the envelope and the top of the appeal papers. An appeal not addressed and marked as provided herein will be marked by Section personnel when it is so identified and will be forwarded immediately to the Commissioner.
(b) The time for decision on the appeal begins on the date the appeal is received by the Commissioner. The appeal should include any documentation, information or statements advanced for the amendment of the record.
(c) There shall be a written record of the reason for the final determination. The final determination will be made not later than thirty (30) days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) from the date the Commissioner receives the appeal; unless, for good cause shown, the Commissioner extends such determination beyond the thirty (30) day period.
(d) When the final determination is that the record should be amended in accordance with the individual's request, the Commissioner shall direct the office responsible for the record to comply. The office responsible for the record shall:
(1) Amend the record as directed;
(2) If a distribution of the record has been made, advise all previous recipients of the record of the amendment and its substance;
(3) So advise the individual in writing.
(e) When the final decision is that the request of the individual to amend the record is refused, the Commissioner shall advise the individual:
(1) Of the refusal and the reasons for it;
(2) Of his or her right to file a concise statement of the reasons for disagreeing with the decision of the Section;
(3) Of the procedures for filing the statement of disagreement;
(4) That the statement which is filed will be made available to anyone to whom the record is subsequently disclosed together with, at the discretion of the Section, a brief statement by the Section summarizing its reasons for refusing to amend the record;
(5) That prior recipients of the disputed record will be provided a copy of any statement of dispute to the extent that an accounting of disclosures was maintained; and
(6) Of his or her right to seek judicial review of the Section's refusal to amend the record.
(f) When the final determination is to refuse to amend a record and the individual has filed a statement under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the Section will clearly annotate the record so that the fact that the record is disputed is apparent to anyone who may subsequently have access to use or disclose it. When information that is the subject of a statement of dispute
filed by an individual is subsequently disclosed, the Section will note that the information is disputed and provide a copy of the individual's statement. The Section may also include a brief summary of the reasons for not making a correction when disclosing disputed information. Such statements will normally be limited to the reasons given to the individual for not amending the record. Copies of the Section's statement shall be treated as part of the individual's record for granting access; however, it will not be subject to amendment by the individual under these rules.
(g) An appeal will be decided on the basis of the individual's appeal papers and the record submitted by the PA officer. No personal appearance or hearings on appeals will be allowed.
§ 1101.15
Judicial review.
After having exhausted all administrative remedies set forth in § 1101.7(g)(3) or § 1101.14, a requester may bring a civil action against the Section, in a United States District Court of proper venue, within two years of the final administrative decision which the requester seeks to challenge.
§ 1101.16
Criminal penalties.
(a) Under the provisions of the Act, it is a Federal crime for any person to knowingly and willfully request or obtain information from a Federal agency, including this Section, by false pretenses.
(b) It is also a crime for any officer or employee of the Section to knowingly and willfully:
(1) Make an unauthorized disclosure; or
(2) Fail to publish public notice of a system of records as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4).
§ 1101.17
Annual report to Congress.
(a) On or before August 1 of each calendar year the Commissioner shall submit a report covering the preceding calendar year to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate for referral to the appropriate committees of the Congress. The report shall include:
(1) The U.S. Section's point of contact responsible for implementing the Privacy Act of 1974;
(2) The number of active systems, new systems published, systems deleted, systems automated, either in whole or part, number of existing systems for which new routine uses were established, number of existing systems for which new exemptions were claimed, number of existing systems from which exemptions were deleted, and number of public comments received by the agency of publication of rules or notices;
(3) Total number of requests for access, number of requests wholly or partially granted, number of requests totally denied, number of requests for which no record was found, number of appeals of denials of access, number of appeals in which denial was upheld, number of appeals in which denial was overturned either in whole or part, number of requests to amend records in system, number of amendment requests wholly or partially granted, number of amendment requests totally denied, number of appeals of denials of amendment requests, number of appeals in which denial was upheld, number in which denial was overturned either in whole or in part, whether the U.S. Section denied an individual access to his or her records in a system of record on any basis other than a Privacy Act exemption under 5 U.S.C. 552(j) or (k), and the legal justification for the denial, number of instances in which individuals litigated the results of appeals of access or amendment, and the results of such litigation, and a statement of our involvement in matching programs;
(4) Any other information which will indicate the U.S. Section's effort to comply with the objectives of the Act, to include any problems encountered, with recommendations for solving thereof;
(5) And, a copy of these regulations.
Pt. 1102

# PART 1102—FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
Sec.
1102.1
Purpose.
1102.2
Definitions.
1102.3
Procedures for requesting access to records or information.
1102.4
Fees.
1102.5
Categories of requesters for fee purposes.
1102.6
Fee waivers and appeals.
1102.7
The Section's determination and appeal procedures.
1102.8
Exemptions.
1102.9
Annual report to Congress.
1102.10
Examination of records.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552 (Pub. L. 90-23, as amended by Pub. L. 93-502 and 99-570).

# Source:
55 FR 35898, Sept. 4, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1102.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to prescribe rules, guidelines and procedures to implement the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended on November 21, 1974, by Public Law 93-502, and on October 27, 1986, by Public Law 99-570.
§ 1102.2
Definitions.
Act
means the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.
Commercial-use request
refers to a request from or on behalf of one who seeks information for a cause or purpose that furthers the commercial, trade, or profit interests of the requester or person on whose behalf the request is made. In determining whether a requester properly belongs in this category, the Section will consider how the requester will use the documents.
Commissioner
means head of the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico.
Direct costs
means those expenditures which the Section actually incurs in searching for and duplicating (and in the case of commercial requesters, reviewing) documents to respond to a FOIA request. Direct costs include, for example, the salary of the employee performing work (the basic rate of pay for the employee plus 16 percent of that rate to cover benefits) and the cost of operating duplicating machinery. Not included in direct costs are overhead expenses such as costs of space, and heating or lighting the facility where the records are stored.
Disclose or disclosure
means making records available, on request for examination and copying, or furnishing a copy of records.
Duplication
refers to the process of making a copy of a document in response to a FOIA request. Such copies can take the form of paper, microform, audiovisual materials, or machine-readable documentation. The Section will provide a copy of the material in a form that is usable by the requester unless it is administratively burdensome to do so.
Educational institution
refers to a preschool, a public or private elementary or secondary school, an institution of graduate higher education, an institution of undergraduate higher education, an institution of professional education, and an institution of vocational education, which operates a program or programs of scholarly research.
Noncommercial scientific institution
refers to an institution that is not operated on a “commercial” basis as that term is referenced above, and which is operated solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research the results of which are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
Person
or
Requester
includes any individual, firm, corporation, organization or other entity.
Records
and/or
information
are defined as all books, papers, manuals, maps, photographs, or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by the Section under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business or in carrying out its treaty responsibilities and obligations, and preserved or appropriate for preservation by the Section as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the information value of the data in them, but does not include books, magazines or other material acquired solely for library purposes and through other sources, and does not include analyses, computations, or compilations of information not extant at the time of the request. The term “records” does not include objects or articles such as structures, furniture, paintings, sculptures, three-dimensional models, vehicles, and equipment.
Representative of the news media
refers to any person actively gathering news for an entity that is organized and operated to publish or broadcast news to the public. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media include television or radio stations broadcasting to the public at large, and publishers of periodicals (but only those instances when they can qualify as disseminators of “news”) who make their products available for purchase or subscription by the general public. In the case of “freelance” journalists, they may be regarded as working for a news organization if they can demonstate a solid basis for expecting publication through that organization even though not actually employed by it.
Request
means a letter or other written communication seeking records or information under the Freedom of Information Act.
Review
refers to the process of examining documents located in response to a request that is for commercial use to determine if any portion of that document is permitted to be withheld, and processing any document for disclosure (i.e., doing all that is necessary to excise them and otherwise prepare them for release). It does not include time spent resolving general legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions.
Search
includes all time spent looking for material that is responsive to a request, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of material within documents. Searches should be performed in the most efficient and least expensive manner so as to minimize costs for both the Section and the requester; for example, line-by-line searches should not be undertaken when it would be more efficient to duplicate the entire document. Note that such activity should be distinguished from “review” of material in determining whether the material is exempt from disclosure. Searches may be done manually or by computer using existing programming.
The
Section
means United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico.
All terms used in this part which are defined in 5 U.S.C. 552 shall have the same meaning herein.
§ 1102.3
Procedures for requesting access to records or information.
(a) A request for any information or records shall be addressed to the FOIA Officer, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422. The envelope and the letter shall be clearly marked “Freedom of Information Request” or “Request for Records,” or the equivalent, to distinguish it from other mail to the Section. If the request is not so marked and addressed, the 10-day time limit described in the Act will not begin to run until the request has been received by the FOIA Officer in the normal course of business. In each instance where a request is received in the normal course of business, the FOIA Officer shall notify the requester that its request was improperly addressed and the date the request was received.
(b) In order for the Section to locate records or information and make them available, it is necessary that it be able to identify the specific record or information sought. Persons wishing to inspect or obtain copies of records or information should, therefore, seek to identify them as fully and accurately as possible. In cases where requests are submitted which are not sufficient to permit identification, the FOIA Officer will endeavor to assist the persons seeking the records or information in filling in necessary details. In most cases, however, persons seeking records or information will find that time taken in trying to identify materials in the beginning is well worth their while in enabling the Section to respond promptly to their request.
(c) A person submitting a request should—
(1) Indicate the specific event or action, if any or if known, to which the request has reference.
(2) Designate the Division, Branch, or Project Office of the Section which may be responsible for or may have
produced the record or information requested.
(3) Furnish the date of the record or information or the date or period to which it refers or relates, if known.
(4) Name the character of record or information, such as a contract, an application, or a report.
(5) List the Section's personnel who may have prepared or have knowledge of the record or information.
(6) Furnish the reference material such as newspapers or publications which are known to have made a reference to the record or information desired.
(7) If the request relates to a matter in pending litigation or one which has been litigated, supply the Court location and case style and number.
(8) Describe, when the request includes more than one record or source of information, specifically each record or information so that availability may be separately determined.
(9) Clearly indicate whether the request is an initial request or an appeal from a denial of a record or information previously requested.
(10) Identify, when the request concerns a matter about the Section's personnel, the person as follows: First name, middle name or initial, and surname; date and place of birth; and social security account number, if known.
(d) No particular format is needed for the request, except that it:
(1) Must be in writing;
(2) Must describe the records or information sought with sufficient detail to permit identification;
(3) Should state a limitation of the fees the requester is willing to pay, if any; and
(4) Must include the name, address, and telephone number (optional) of the person submitting the request.
§ 1102.4
Fees.
(a) The following shall be applicable with respect to services rendered to members of the public under this subpart:
(1) Fee schedule.
(i) Searching for records, per hour or fraction thereof per individual:
Professional
$18.00
Clerical
$9.00
Includes the salary of the category of employee who actually performs the search, plus an additional 16% of that rate to cover benefits.
(ii) The cost for computer searches will be calculated based on the salary of the category of employee who actually performs the computer search, plus 16% of that rate to cover benefits, plus the direct costs of the central processing unit, input-output devices, and memory capacity of the actual computer configuration.
(iii) Reproduction fees:
Pages no larger than 8
1/2
by 14 inches when reproduced by routine electrostatic copying: $0.10 per page.
Pages requiring reduction, enlargement, or other special services will be billed at direct cost to the Section.
Reproduction by other than routine electrostatic copying will be billed at direct cost to the Section.
(iv) Certification of each record as a true copy—$1.00
(v) Certification of each record as a true copy under official seal—$1.50
(vi) For each signed statement of negative result of search for record—$1.00
(vii) For each signed statement of nonavailability of record—$1.00
(viii) Duplication of architectural photographs and drawings:
Available tracing or reproducible, per square foot
$0.10
If intermediate nagative and reproducible required
$2.00;
Plus tracing per square foot
$1.00
(ix)
Postage and handling.
It will be up to the person requesting the records or information to designate how the material will be mailed or shipped. In the absence of such instructions no records or information will be sent to a foreign address, and records and information will be sent to domestic addresses utilizing first class certified mail, return receipt requested and will be billed at direct cost to the Section.
(2) Only requesters who are seeking documents for commercial use will be charged for time spent reviewing records to determine whether thay are exempt from mandatory disclosure. The cost for review will be calculated based on the salary of the category of the employee who actually performed the review plus 16% of the rate to cover
benefits. Charges will be assessed only for the initial review (i.e., review undertaken the first time in order to analyze the applicability of specific exemption(s) to a particular record or portion of record) and not review at the administrative appeal level of the exemption(s) already applied.
(3) If records requested under this part are stored elsewhere than the headquarters of the U.S. Section, IBWC, 4171 North Mesa, EL Paso, TX, the special cost of returning such records to the headquarters shall be include in the search costs. These costs will be computed at the actual costs of transportation of either a person or the requested record between the place where the record is stored and the Section headquarters when, for time or other reasons, it is not feasible to rely on Government mail service.
(4) When no specific fee has been established for a service, or the request for a service does not fall under one of the above categories due to the amount or size or type thereof, the FOIA Officer is authorized to establish an appropriate fee, pursuant to the criteria established in Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A-25, entitled “User Charges.”
(b) Where it is anticipated that the fees chargeable under this part will amount to more than $25 and the requester has not indicated in advance her/his willingness to pay fees as high as anticipated, the requester shall be promptly notified of the amount of the anticipated fees or such portion thereof as can readily be estimated. The notice or request for an advance deposit shall extend an offer to the requester to confer with knowledgeable Section personnel in an attempt to reformulate the request in a manner which will reduce the fees and meet the needs of the requester. Dispatch of such notice or request shall suspend the running of the period for response by the Section until a reply is received from the requester.
(c) Search costs are due and payable even if the record which was requested cannot be located after all reasonable efforts have been made, or if the Section determines that a record which has been requested, but which is exempt from disclosure under this part, is to be withheld.
(d) The Section will begin assessing interest charges on an unpaid bill starting the 31st day following the day on which the billing was sent. The accrual of interest will be stayed upon receipt of the fee, rather than upon its processing by the Section. Interest will at the rate precribed in section 3717 of title 31 U.S.C.
(e) A requester may not file multiple requests at the same time, each seeking portions of a document or documents, solely in order to avoid payment of fees. When the Section reasonably believes that a requester or a group of requesters acting in concert is attempting to break a request down into a series of requests for the purpose of evading the assessment of fees, the Section will aggregate any such requests and charge accordingly.
(f) The Section will not require a requester to make an advance payment, i.e., payment before work is commenced or continued on a request, unless:
(1) The Section estimates or determines that allowable charges that a requester may be required to pay are likely to exceed $250. Then the Section will notify the requester of the likely costs and obtain satisfactory assurance of full payment where the requester has a history of prompt payment of FOIA fees, or require an advance payment of an amount up to the full estimated charges in the case of requesters with no history of payment; or
(2) Requesters who have previously failed to pay fees charged in a timely fashion (i.e., within 30 days of the date of the billing), the Section will require such requesters to pay the full amount owed plus any applicable interest as provided above or demonstrate that they have, in fact, paid the fee, and to make an advance payment of the full amount of the estimated fee before the agency begins to process new requests or pending requests from such requesters.
When the Section acts under paragraph (f) (1) or (2) of this section, the administrative time limit prescribed in subsection (a)(6) of the FOIA (i.e., 10 working days from receipt of initial requests plus permissible extensions of
that time limit) will begin only after the Section has received payments described above.
(g) In accordance with the provisions and authorities of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97-365), the Section reserves the right to disclose information to consumer reporting agencies and to use collection agencies, where appropriate, to encourage repayment.
(h) No fees under $10 will be billed by the Section because the cost of collection would be greater than the fee.
(i) Requester should pay fees by check or money order made out to the U.S. Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, and mailed to the Finance and Accounting Office, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422.
§ 1102.5
Categories of requesters for fee purposes.
There are four categories of requesters: Commercial use requesters; educational and non-commercial scientific institutions; representatives of the news media; and all other requesters. The Act prescribes specific levels of fees for each of these categories. The Section will take into account information provided by requesters in determining their eligibility for inclusion in one of these categories is as defined in § 1102.2. It is in the requester's best interest to provide as much information as possible to demonstrate inclusion within a non-commercial category of fee treatment.
(a) The Section will assess charges which recover the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing for release, and duplicating the records sought for commercial use. Commercial use requesters are entitled to neither two hours of free search time nor 100 free pages of reproduction of documents.
(b) The Section will provide documents to educational and non-commercial scientific institutions for the cost of reproduction alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages. To be eligible for inclusion in this category, requesters must show that the request being made is authorized by, and under the auspices of, a qualifying institution and that the records are not sought for a commercial use, but are sought in furtherance of scholarly (if the request is from an educational institution) or scientific (if the request is from a non-commercial scientific institution) research.
(c) The Section will provide documents to representatives of the news media for the cost of reproduction alone, excluding charges for the first 100 pages. To be eligible for inclusion in this category; a requester must meet the criteria in § 1102.2(m), and the request must not be made for a commercial use. In reference to this class of requesters, a request for records supporting the news dissemination function of the requester shall not be considered to be a request that is for a commercial use.
(d) The Section will charge requesters who do not fit into any of the categories above fees which recover the full reasonable direct cost of searching for and reproducing records that are responsive to the request, except that the first 100 pages of reproduction and the first two hours of search time shall be furnished without charge. Moreover, requests from record subjects for records about themselves will continue to be treated under the fee provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 which permit fees only for reproduction.
(e) In making determinations under this section, the Section may take into account whether requesters who previously were granted (b), (c), or (d) status under the Act did in fact use the requested records for purposes compatible with the status accorded them.
§ 1102.6
Fee waivers and appeals.
(a) Waiver or reduction of any fee provided for in § 1102.4 may be made upon a determination by the FOIA Officer, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422. The Section shall furnish documents without charge or at a reduced charge provided that: Disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government, and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. Requests for a waiver or
reduction of fees shall be considered on a case-by-case basis.
(1) In order to determine whether disclosure of the information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government, the Section will consider the following four factors:
(i) The subject of the request: Whether the subject of the requested records concerns the operations or activities of the Government;
(ii) The informative value of the information to be disclosed: Whether the disclosure is likely to contribute to an understanding of Government operations or activities;
(iii) The contribution to an understanding of the subject by the general public likely to result from disclosure: Whether disclosure of the requested information will contribute to public understanding; and
(iv) The significance of the contribution to public understanding: Whether the disclosure is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of Government operations or activities.
(2) In order to determine whether disclosure of the information is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester, the Section will consider the following two factors:
(i) The existence and magnitude of a commercial interest: Whether the requester has a commercial interest that would be furthered by the requested disclosure; and, if so
(ii) The primary interest in disclosure: Whether the magnitude of the identified commercial interest of the requester is sufficiently large, in comparison with the public interest in disclosure, that disclosure is primarily in the commercial interest of the requester.
(b) The Section will not consider waiver or reduction of fees for requesters (persons or organizations) from whom unpaid fees remain due to the Section for another information access request.
(c)(1) The Section's decision to refuse to waive or reduce fees as requested under paragraph (a) of this section may be appealed to the Commissioner, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, Suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422. Appeals should contain as much information and documentation as possible to support the request for a waiver or reduction of fees.
(2) Appeals will be reviewed by the Commissioner, who may consult with other officials of the Section as appropriate. The requester will be notified within thirty working days from the date on which the Section received the appeal.
§ 1102.7
The Section's determination and appeal procedures.
Upon receipt of any request for records of information under the Act the following guidelines shall be followed:
(a) The FOIA Officer will determine within 10 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after receipt of any such request whether to comply with such request and will immediately notify the person making such request of such determination, the reasons therefore, and of the right to such person to appeal to the Commissioner any adverse determination.
(b) All appeals should be addressed to the Commissioner, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, Suite, C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422, and should be clearly identified as such on the envelope and in the letter of appeal by using the marking “Freedom of Information Appeal” or “Appeal for Records” or the equivalent. Failure to properly address an appeal may defer the date of receipt by the Section to take into account the time reasonably required to forward the appeal to the Commissioner. In each instance when an appeal is incorrectly addressed to the Commissioner, he shall notify the person making the appeal that his appeal was improperly addressed and of the date the appeal was received by the Commissioner. The Commissioner will make a determination with respect to any appeal within 20 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) after the receipt of an appeal. If on appeal the denial or the request is in whole or in part upheld, the Commissioner will notify the person making such request of the provisions for
judicial review under the Act. An appeal must be in writing and filed within 30 days from receipt of the initial determination (in cases of denials of an entire request), or from receipt of any records being made available pursuant to the initial determination (in case of partial denials). In those cases where a request or appeal is not addressed to the proper official, the time limitations stated above will be computed from the receipt of the request or appeal by the proper official.
(c) In unusual circumstances, as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, the time limits for responding to the original request or the appeal may be extended by not more than an additional 10 working days by written notice to the person making a request. This notice must be sent within either 10- or 20-day time limit and will specify the reason for the extension and the date on which determination is expected to be dispatched. The extension may be invoked only once during the consideration of a request either during the initial consideration period or during the consideration of an appeal, but not both.
(d) The unusual circumstances are:
(1) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request.
(2) The need to search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(3) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the requestor among two or more components of the agency having substantial subject-matter interest therein.
(e) If the FOIA Officer receives a request which is of proper concern to an agency or entity outside the Section, it will be returned to the person making the request, advising the requester to refer it to the appropriate agency or entity if requester desires, and providing the requester with the name or title, address and other appropriate information. An information copy of the request and the letter of referral will be forwarded promptly to the agency or entity outside the Section that may expect the request. In the event the FOIA Officer receives a request to make available a record or provide information which is of interest to more than one agency (Federal, State, municipal, or legal entity created thereby), the FOIA Officer will retain and act upon the request if the Section is one of the interest agencies and if its interest in the record is paramount.
(f) The Commissioner's determination on an appeal shall be in writing and when it denies records in whole or in part, the letter to the person making a request shall include:
(1) Notation of the specific exemption or exemptions of the Act authorizing the withholding.
(2) A statement that the decision is final for the Section.
(3) Advice that judicial review of the denial is available in the district in which the person making the request resides or has his principal place of business, the district in which the Section's records are situated, or the District of Columbia.
(4) The names and titles or positions of each official responsible for the denial of a request.
When appropriate, the written determination may also state how an exemption applied in that particular case, and, when relevant, why a discretionary rebase is not appropriate.
(g) In those cases where it is necessary to find and examine records before the legality or appropriateness of their disclosure can be determined, and where after diligent effort this has not been achieved within the required period, the FOIA Officer may advise the person making the request that a determination to presently deny the request has been made because the records or information have not been found or examined, that the determination will be considered when the search or examination is completed and the time within which completion is expected, but that the person making the request may immediately file an administrative appeal to the Commissioner.
§ 1102.8
Exemptions.
(a) 5 U.S.C. 552(b) provides that the requirements of the FOIA do not apply to matters that are:
(1)
Classified documents.
Specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and that are, in fact, properly classified under the Executive order.
(2)
Internal personnel rules and practices.
Related solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of an agency.
(3)
Information exempt under other laws.
Specifically exempted from disclosure by statute, provided that the statute—
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue or
(ii) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld.
(4)
Confidential business information.
Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential.
(5)
Internal government communications.
Interagency or intra-agency memorandums or letters which would not be available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the agency.
(6)
Personal privacy.
Personnel, medical, and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
(7)
Law enforcement.
Records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that the production of such law enforcement records or information:
(i) Could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings;
(ii) Would deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(iii) Could reasonably be expected to constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(iv) Could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of a confidential source, including a State, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution which furnished information on a confidential basis, and, in the case of a record or information compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation information furnished by a confidential source;
(v) Would disclose techniques and procedures for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions, or would disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if such disclosure could reasonably be expected to risk circumvention of the law; or
(vi) Could reasonably be expected to endanger the life or physical safety of any individual.
(8)
Financial institutions.
Contained in or related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions.
(9)
Geological information.
Geological and geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells.
(b) The Section will provide any reasonably segregable portion of a record to a requester after deletion of the portions that are exempt under this section.
(c) The section will invoke no exemption under this section if the requested records are available to the requester under the Privacy Act of 1974 and its implementing regulations.
(d) Whenever a request is made which involves access to records described in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section and
(1) The investigation or proceeding involves a possible violation of criminal law, and
(2) There is reason to believe that the subject of the investigation or proceeding is not aware of its pendency, and disclosure of the existence of the records could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings, the agency may, during only such time as that circumstance continues, treat the records as not subject to the requirements of this section.
§ 1102.9
Annual report to Congress.
(a) On or before March 1 of each calendar year the Commissioner shall submit a report covering the preceding calendar year to the Speaker of the
House of Representatives and President of the Senate for referral to the appropriate committees of the Congress. The report shall include:
(1) The number of determinations made by the section not to comply with request for records made to the section under the Act and this part and the reasons for each such determination.
(2) The number of appeals made by persons under the Act and this part, the result of such appeals, and the reason for the action upon each appeal that results in a denial of information.
(3) The names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the denial of records requested under the Act, and the number of instances of participation for each.
(4) The results of each proceeding conducted pursuant to 552(1)(4)(F) of the Act, including a report of the disciplinary action taken against the officer or employee who was primarily responsible for improperly withholding records or an explanation of why disciplinary action was not taken.
(5) A copy of this part.
(6) A copy of the fee schedule and the total amount of fees collected by the section for making records available under the Act.
(7) Such other information as indicates efforts to administer fully the Act.
(b) A copy of each such report to the Congress made pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will be made available for public inspection and copying in the office of the FOIA Officer, United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, 4171 North Mesa, Suite C-310, El Paso, TX 79902-1422.
§ 1102.10
Examination of records.
When a request to examine records is approved by the FOIA Officer, every reasonable effort will be made to provide facilities for the purpose of such examination. “On the spot” copying will be available if the FOIA Officer decides there will be no interference with ordinary activities or routine business of the section.
Pt. 1103

# PART 1103—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY AND WATER COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND MEXICO, UNITED STATES SECTION
Sec.
1103.101
Purpose.
1103.102
Application.
1103.103
Definitions.
1103.104-1103.109
[Reserved]
1103.110
Self-evaluation.
1103.111
Notice.
1103.112-1103.1103
[Reserved]
1103.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
1103.131-1103.139
[Reserved]
1103.140
Employment.
1103.141-1103.148
[Reserved]
1103.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
1103.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
1103.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
1103.152-1103.159
[Reserved]
1103.160
Communications.
1103.161-1103.169
[Reserved]
1103.170
Compliance procedures.
1103.171-1103.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
51 FR 4577, Feb. 5, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1103.101
Purpose.
This part effectuates section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 1103.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency.
§ 1103.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, telecommunications devices and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one of more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addition and alcholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Qualified handicapped person
means—
(1) With respect to any agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature; or
(2) With respect to any other program or activity, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity.
(3)
Qualified handicapped person
is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 1103.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
[51 FR 4577, Feb. 5, 1986; 51 FR 7543, Mar. 5, 1986]
§§ 1103.104-1103.109
[Reserved]
§ 1103.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by April 9, 1987, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, until three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspections:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified, and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 1103.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 1103.112-1103.129
[Reserved]
§ 1103.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualfied handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of
administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude handicapped persons from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
§§ 1103.131-1103.139
[Reserved]
§ 1103.140
Employment.
No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 1103.141-1103.148
[Reserved]
§ 1103.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1103.150, no qualified handicapped person shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 1103.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by handicapped persons; or
(2) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1103.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section
through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by June 6, 1986, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by April 7, 1989, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by October 7, 1986, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
[51 FR 4577, Feb. 5, 1986; 51 FR 7543, Mar. 5, 1986]
§ 1103.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 1103.152-1103.159
[Reserved]
§ 1103.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford a handicapped person an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the handicapped person.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons
with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1103.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 1103.161-1103.169
[Reserved]
§ 1103.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) Director, Equal Employment Opportunity shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to Director, Equal Employment Opportunity, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section, The Commons, Building C, Suite 310, 4171 North Mesa, El Paso, Texas 79902.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), or section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found;
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 1103.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt
of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[51 FR 4577, Feb. 5, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 4577, Feb. 5, 1986]
§§ 1103.171-1103.999
[Reserved]
Pt. 1104

# PART 1104—PROTECTION OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES
Sec.
1104.1
Purpose.
1104.2
Definitions.
1104.3
Prohibited acts.
1104.4
Permit requirements and exceptions.
1104.5
Application for permits and information collection.
1104.6
Notification to Indian tribes of possible harm to, or destruction of, sites on public lands having religious or cultural importance.
1104.7
Issuance of permits.
1104.8
Terms and conditions of permits.
1104.9
Suspension and revocation of permits.
1104.10
Appeals relating to permits.
1104.11
Relationship to section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act.
1104.12
Custody of archaeological resources.
1104.13
Determination of archaeological or commercial value and cost of restoration and repair.
1104.14
Assessment of civil penalties.
1104.15
Civil penalty amounts.
1104.16
Other penalties and rewards.
1104.17
Confidentiality of archaeological resource information.
1104.18
Report to the Secretary of the Interior.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 96-95, 93 Stat. 721 (16 U.S.C. 470aa-11) (Sec. 10(a).) Related Authority: Pub. L. 59-209, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U.S.C. 432, 433); Pub. L. 86-523, 74 Stat. 220, 221 (16 U.S.C. 469), as amended, 88 Stat. 174 (1974); Pub. L. 89-665, 80 Stat. 915 (16 U.S.C. 470a-t), as amended, 84 Stat. 204 (1970), 87 Stat. 139 (1973), 90 Stat. 1320 (1976), 92 Stat. 3467 (1978), 94 Stat. 2987 (1980); Pub. L. 95-341, 92 Stat. 469 (42 U.S.C. 1996).

# Source:
56 FR 21590, May 10, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1104.1
Purpose.
(a) The regulations in this part implement provisions of the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa-11) by establishing the definitions, standards, and procedures to be followed by the Commissioner in providing protection for archaeological resources, located on public lands through permits authorizing excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources, through civil penalties for unauthorized excavation and/or removal, through provisions for the preservation of archaeological resource collections and data, and through provisions for ensuring confidentiality of information about archaeological resources when disclosure would threaten the archaeological resources.
(b) The regulations in this part do not impose any new restrictions on activities permitted under other laws, authorities, and regulations relating to mining, mineral leasing, reclamation, and other multiple uses of the public lands.
§ 1104.2
Definitions.
As used for purposes of this part:
(a)
Archaeological resource
means any material remains of human life or activities which are at least 100 years of age, and which are of archaeological interest.
(1)
Of archaeological interest
means capable of providing scientific or humanistic understandings of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques such as controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation and explanation.
(2)
Material remains
means physical evidence of human habitation, occupation, use, or activity, including the site, location, or context in which such evidence is situated.
(3) The following classes of material remains (and illustrative examples), if they are at least 100 years of age, are of archaeological interest and shall be
considered archaeological resources unless determined otherwise pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section:
(i) Surface or subsurface structures, shelters, facilities, or features (including, but not limited to, domestic structures, storage structures, cooking structures, ceremonial structures, artificial mounds, earthworks, fortifications, canals, reservoirs, horticultural/agricultural gardens or fields, bedrock mortars or grinding surfaces, rock alignments, cairns, trails, borrow pits, cooking pits, refuse pits, burial pits or graves, hearths, kilns, post molds, wall trenches, middens);
(ii) Surface or subsurface artifact concentrations or scatters;
(iii) Whole or fragmentary tools, implements, containers, weapons and weapon projectiles, clothing, and ornaments (including, but not limited to, pottery and other ceramics, cordage, basketry and other weaving, bottles and other glassware, bone, ivory, shell, metal, wood, hide, feathers, pigments, and flaked, ground, or pecked stone);
(iv) By-products, waste products, or debris resulting from manufacture or use of human-made or natural materials;
(v) Organic waste (including but not limited to, vegetable and animal remains, coprolites);
(vi) Human remains (including, but not limited to, bone, teeth, mummified flesh, burials, cremations);
(vii) Rock carvings, rock paintings, intaglios and other works of artistic or symbolic representation;
(viii) Rockshelters and caves or portions thereof containing any of the above material remains;
(ix) All portions of shipwrecks (including but not limited to, armaments, apparel, tackle, cargo);
(x) Any portion or piece of any of the foregoing.
(4) The following material remains shall not be considered of archaeological interest, and shall not be considered to be archaeological resources for purposes of the Act and this part, unless found in a direct physical relationship with archaeological resources as defined in this section:
(i) Paleontological remains;
(ii) Coins, bullets, and unworked minerals and rocks.
(5) The Commissioner may determine that certain material remains, in specified areas under the Commissioner's jurisdiction, and under specified circumstances, are not or are no longer of archaeological interest and are not to be considered archaeological resources under this part. Any determination made pursuant to this subparagraph shall be documented. Such Determination shall in no way affect the Commissioner's obligations under other applicable laws or regulations.
(b)
Arrowhead
means any projectile point which appears to have been designed for use with an arrow.
(c)
Commissioner
means the head of the United States Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, and his delegate.
(d)
Public lands
means lands to which the United States of America holds fee title, and which are under the control of the U.S. Section, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico.
(e)
Indian tribe
as defined in the Act means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community. In order to clarify this statutory definition for purposes of this part,
Indian tribe
means:
(1) Any tribal entity which is included in the annual list of recognized tribes published in the
Federal Register
by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to 25 CFR part 54;
(2) Any other tribal entity acknowledged by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to 25 CFR part 54 since the most recent publication of the annual list;
(f)
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, trust, institution, association, or any other private entity, or any officer, employee, agent, department, or instrumentality of the United States, or of any Indian tribe, or of any State or political subdivision thereof.
(g)
State
means any of the fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands.
(h)
Act
means the Archaeological Resources Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa-11.), as amended.
§ 1104.3
Prohibited acts.
(a) No person may excavate, remove, damage, or otherwise alter or deface any archaeological resource located on public lands unless such activity is pursuant to a permit issued under § 1104.7 or exempted by § 1104.4(b) of this part.
(b) No person may sell, purchase, exchange, transport, or receive any archaeological resource, if such resource was excavated or removed in violation of:
(1) The prohibitions contained in paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) Any provision, rule, regulation, ordinance, or permit in effect under any other provision of Federal law.
§ 1104.4
Permit requirements and exceptions.
(a) Any person proposing to excavate and/or remove archaeological resources from public lands, and to carry out activities associated with such excavation and/or removal, shall apply to the Commissioner for a permit for the proposed work, and shall not begin the proposed work until a permit has been issued. The Commissioner may issue a permit to any qualified person, subject to appropriate terms and conditions, provided that the person applying for a permit meets conditions in § 1104.7(a) of this part.
(b) Exceptions:
(1) No permit shall be required under this part for any person conducting activities on the public lands under other permits, leases, licenses, or entitlements for use, when those activities are exclusively for purposes other than the excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources, even though those activities might incidentally result in the disturbance of archaeological resources. General earth-moving excavation conducted under a permit or other authorization shall not be construed to mean excavation and/or removal as used in this part. This exception does not, however, affect the Commissioner's responsibility to comply with other authorities which protect archaeological resources prior to approving permits, leases, licenses, or entitlements for use; any excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources required for compliance with those authorities shall be conducted in accordance with the permit requirements of this part.
(2) No permit shall be required under this part for any person collecting for private purposes any rock, coin, bullet, or mineral which is not an archaeological resource as defined in this part, provided that such collecting does not result in disturbance of any archaeological resource.
(3) No permit shall be required under section 3 of the Act of June 8, 1906 (16 U.S.C. 432) for any archaeological work for which a permit is issued under this part.
(c) Persons carrying out official agency duties under the Commissioner's direction, associated with the management of archaeological resources, need not follow the permit application procedures of § 1104.5. However, the Commissioner shall insure that provisions of §§ 1104.7 and 1104.8 have been met by other documented means, and that any official duties which might result in harm to or destruction of any Indian tribal religious or cultural site, as determined by the Commissioner, have been the subject of consideration under § 1104.6.
(d) Upon the written request of the Governor of any State, on behalf of the State or its educational institutions, the Commissioner shall issue a permit, subject to the provisions of §§ 1104.4(b)(5), 1104.6, 1104.7(a) (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7), 1104.8, 1104.9, 1104.11, and 1104.12(a) to such Governor or to such designee as the Governor deems qualified to carry out the intent of the Act, for purposes of conducting archaeological research, excavating and/or removing archaeological resources, and safeguarding and preserving any materials and data collected in a university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution approved by the Commissioner.
(e) Under other statutory, regulatory, or administrative authorities governing the use of public lands, authorizations may be required for activities which do not require a permit under this part. Any person wishing to conduct on public lands any activities related to but believed to fall outside the scope of this part should consult with the Commissioner, for the purpose
of determining whether any authorization is required, prior to beginning such activities.
§ 1104.5
Application for permits and information collection.
(a) Any person may apply to the Commissioner for a permit to excavate and/or remove archaeological resources from public lands and to carry out activities associated with such excavation and/or removal.
(b) Each application for a permit shall include:
(1) The nature and extent of the work proposed, including how and why it is proposed to be conducted, proposed time of performance, locational maps, and proposed outlet for public written dissemination of the results.
(2) The name and address of the individual(s) proposed to be responsible for conducting the work, institutional affiliation, if any, and evidence of education, training, and experience in accord with the minimal qualifications listed in § 1104.7(a).
(3) The name and address of the individual(s), if different from the individual(s) named in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, proposed to be responsible for carrying out the terms and conditions of the permit.
(4) Evidence of the applicant's ability to initiate, conduct, and complete the proposed work, including evidence of logistical support and laboratory facilities.
(5) Where the application is for the excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources on public lands, the names of the university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution in which the applicant proposes to store all collections, and copies of records, data, photographs, and other documents derived from the proposed work. Applicants shall submit written certification, signed by an authorized official of the institution, of willingness to assume curatorial responsibility for the collections, records, data, photographs and other documents and to safeguard and preserve these materials as property of the United States.
(c) The Commissioner may require additional information, pertinent to land management responsibilities, to be included in the application for permit and shall so inform the applicant.
(d) Paperwork Reduction Act. The information collection requirement contained in § 1104.5 of these regulations has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1024-0037. The purpose of the information collection is to meet statutory and administrative requirements in the public interest. The information will be used to assist the Commissioner in determining that applicants for permits are qualified, that the work proposed would further archaeological knowledge, that archaeological resources and associated records and data will be properly preserved, and that the permitted activity would not conflict with the management of the public lands involved. Response to the information requirement is necessary in order for an applicant to obtain a benefit.
§ 1104.6
Notification to Indian tribes of possible harm to, or destruction of, sites on public lands having religious or cultural importance.
(a) If the issuance of a permit under this part may result in harm to, or destruction of, any Indian tribal religious or cultural site on public lands, as determined by the Commissioner, at least 30 days before issuing such a permit the Commissioner shall notify any Indian tribe which may consider the site as having religious or cultural importance. Such notice shall not be deemed a disclosure to the public for purposes of section 9 of the Act.
(1) Notice by the Commissioner to any Indian tribe shall be sent to the chief executive officer or other designated official of the tribe. Indian tribes are encouraged to designate a tribal official to be the focal point for any notification and discussion between the tribe and the Commissioner.
(2) The Commissioner may provide notice to any other Native American group that is known by the Commissioner to consider sites potentially affected as being of religious or cultural importance.
(3) Upon request during the 30-day period, the Commissioner may meet with official representatives of any Indian
tribe or group to discuss their interests, including ways to avoid or mitigate potential harm or destruction such as excluding sites from the permit area. Any mitigation measures which are adopted shall be incorporated into the terms and conditions of the permit under § 1104.8.
(4) When the Commissioner determines that a permit applied for under this part must be issued immediately because of an imminent threat of loss or destruction of an archaeological resource, the Commissioner shall so notify the appropriate tribe.
(b)(1) In order to identify sites of religious or cultural importance, the Commissioner shall seek to identify all Indian tribes having aboriginal or historic ties to the lands under the Commissioner's jurisdiction and seek to determine, from the chief executive officer or other designated official of any such tribe, the location and nature of specific sites of religious or cultural importance so that such information may be on file for land management purposes. Information on site eligible for or included in the National Register of Historic Places may be withheld from public disclosure pursuant to section 304 of the Act of October 15, 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470w-3).
(2) If the Commissioner becomes aware of a Native American group that is not an Indian tribe as defined in this part but has aboriginal or historic ties to public lands under the Commissioner's jurisdiction, the Commissioner may seek to communicate with official representatives of that group to obtain information on sites they may consider to be of religious or cultural importance.
(3) The Commissioner may enter into agreement with any Indian tribe or other Native American group for determining locations for which such tribe or group wishes to receive notice under this section.
§ 1104.7
Issuance of permits.
(a) The Commissioner may issue a permit, for a specified period of time appropriate to the work to be conducted, upon determining that:
(1) The applicant is appropriately qualified, as evidenced by training, education, and/or experience, and possesses demonstrable competence in archaeological theory and methods, and in collecting, handling, analyzing, evaluating, and reporting archaeological data, relative to the type and scope of the work proposed, and also meets the following minimum qualifications:
(i) A graduate degree in anthropology or archaeology, or equivalent training and experience;
(ii) The demonstrated ability to plan, equip, staff, organize, and supervise activity of the type and scope proposed;
(iii) The demonstrated ability to carry research to completion, as evidenced by timely completion of theses, research reports, or similar documents;
(iv) Completion of at least 16 months of professional experience and/or specialized training in archaeological field, laboratory, or library research, administration, or management, including at least 4 months experience and/or specialized training in the kind of activity the individual proposes to conduct under authority of a permit; and
(v) Applicants proposing to engage in historical archaeology should have had at least one year of experience in research concerning archaeological resources of the prehistoric period.
(2) The proposed work is to be undertaken for the purpose of furthering archaeological knowledge in the public interest, which may include but need not be limited to, scientific or scholarly research, and preservation of archaeological data;
(3) The proposed work, including time, scope, location, and purpose, is not inconsistent with any management plan or established policy, objectives, or requirements applicable to the management of the public lands concerned;
(4) Where the proposed work consists of archaeological survey and/or data recovery undertaken in accordance with other approved uses of the public lands, and the proposed work has been agreed to in writing by the Commissioner pursuant to section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470f), paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section shall be deemed satisfied by the prior approval;
(5) Evidence is submitted to the Commissioner that any university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution proposed in the application as the repository possesses adequate curatorial capability for safeguarding and preserving the archaeological resources and all associated records; and
(6) The applicant has certified that, not later than 90 days after the date the final report is submitted to the Commissioner, the following will be delivered to the appropriate official of the approved university, museum, or other scientific or educational institution, which shall be named in the permit:
(i) All artifacts, samples, collections, and copies of records, data, photographs, and other documents resulting from work conducted under the requested permit where the permit is for the excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources from public lands.
(b) When the area of the proposed work would cross jurisdictional boundaries, so that permit applications must be submitted to more than one Federal agency, the Commissioner shall coordinate the review and evaluation of applications and the issuance of permits.
§ 1104.8
Terms and conditions of permits.
(a) In all permits issued, the Commissioner shall specify:
(1) The nature and extent of work allowed and required under the permit, including the time, duration, scope, location, and purpose of the work;
(2) The name of the individual(s) responsible for conducting the work and, if different, the name of the individual(s) responsible for carrying out the terms and conditions of the permit;
(3) The name of any university, museum, or other scientific or educational institutions in which any collected materials and data shall be deposited; and
(4) Reporting requirements.
(b) The Commissioner may specify such terms and conditions as deemed necessary, consistent with this part, to protect public safety and other values and/or resources, to secure work areas, to safeguard other legitimate land uses, and to limit activities incidental to work authorized under a permit.
(c) Initiation of work or other activities under the authority of a permit signifies the permittee's acceptance of the terms and conditions of the permit.
(d) The permittee shall not be released from requirements of a permit until all outstanding obligations have been satisifed, whether or not the term of the permit has expired.
(e) The permittee may request that the Commissioner extend or modify a permit.
(f) The permittee's performance under any permit issued for a period greater than 1 year shall be subject to review by the Commissioner, at least annually.
§ 1104.9
Suspension and revocation of permits.
(a)
Suspension or revocation for cause.
(1) The Commissioner may suspend a permit issued pursuant to this part upon determining that the permittee has failed to meet any of the terms and conditions of the permit or has violated any prohibition of the Act or § 1104.3. The Commissioner shall provide written notice to the permittee of the suspension, the cause thereof, and the requirements which must be met before the suspension will be removed.
(2) The Commissioner may revoke a permit upon assessment of a civil penalty under § 1104.14 upon the permittee's conviction under section 6 of the Act, or upon determining that the permittee has failed after notice under this section to correct the situation which led to suspension of the permit.
(b)
Suspension or revocation for management purposes.
The Commissioner may suspend or revoke a permit, without liability to the United States, its agents, or employees, when continuation of work under the permit would be in conflict with management requirements not in effect when the permit was issued. The Commissioner shall provide written notice to the permittee stating the nature of and basis for the suspension or revocation.
§ 1104.10
Appeals relating to permits.
Any affected person may appeal permit issuance, denial of permit issuance, suspension, revocation, and terms and conditions of a permit.
§ 1104.11
Relationship to section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act.
Issuance of a permit in accordance with the Act and this part does not constitute an undertaking requiring compliance with section 106 of the Act of October 15, 1966 (16 U.S.C. 470f). However, the mere issuance of such a permit does not excuse the Commissioner from compliance with section 106 where otherwise required.
§ 1104.12
Custody of archaeological resources.
(a) Archaeological resources excavated or removed from the public lands remain the property of the United States.
(b) The Commissioner may provide for the exchange of archaeological resources among suitable universities, museums, or other scientific or educational institutions, when such resources have been excavated or removed from public lands under the authority of a permit issued by the Commissioner.
§ 1104.13
Determination of archaeological or commercial value and cost of restoration and repair.
(a)
Archaeological value.
For purposes of this part, the archaeological value of any archaeological resource involved in a violation of the prohibitions in § 1104.3 of this part or conditions of a permit issued pursuant to this part shall be the value of the information associated with the archaeological resource. This value shall be appraised in terms of the costs of the retrieval of the scientific information which would have been obtainable prior to the violation. These costs may include, but need not be limited to, the cost of preparing a research design, conducting field work, carrying out laboratory analysis, and preparing reports as would be necessary to realize the information potential.
(b)
Commercial value.
For purposes of this part, the commercial value of any archaeological resource involved in a violation of the prohibitions in § 1104.3 of this part or conditions of a permit issued pursuant to this part shall be its fair market value. Where the violation has resulted in damage to the archaeological resource, the fair market value should be determined using the condition of the archaeological resource prior to the violation, to the extent that its prior condition can be ascertained.
(c)
Cost of restoration and repair.
For purposes of this part, the cost of restoration and repair of archaeological resources damaged as a result of a violation of prohibitions or conditions pursuant to this part, shall be the sum of the costs already incurred for emergency restoration or repair work, plus those costs projected to be necessary to complete restoration and repair, which may include, but need not be limited to, the costs of the following:
(1) Reconstruction of the archaeological resource;
(2) Stabilization of the archaeological resource;
(3) Ground contour reconstruction and surface stabilization;
(4) Research necessary to carry out reconstruction or stabilization;
(5) Physical barriers or other protective devices, necessitated by the disturbance of the archaeological resource, to protect it from further disturbance;
(6) Examination and analysis of the archaeological resource including recording remaining archaeological information, where necessitated by disturbance, in order to salvage remaining values which cannot be otherwise conserved;
(7) Reinterment of human remains in accordance with religious custom and State, local, or tribal law, where appropriate, as determined by the Commissioner;
(8) Preparation of reports relating to any of the above activities.
§ 1104.14
Assessment of civil penalties.
(a) The Commissioner may assess a civil penalty against any person who has violated any prohibition contained in § 1104.3 or who has violated any term or condition included in a permit issued in accordance with the Act and this part.
(b)
Notice of violation.
The Commissioner shall serve a notice of violation upon any person believed to be subject to a civil penalty, either in person or by registered or certified mail (return
receipt requested). The Commissioner shall include in the notice:
(1) A concise statement of the facts believed to show a violation;
(2) A specific reference to the provision(s) of this part or to a permit issued pursuant to this part allegedly violated;
(3) The amount of penalty proposed to be assessed, including any initial proposal to mitigate or remit where appropriate, or a statement that notice of a proposed penalty amount will be served after the damages associated with the alleged violation have been ascertained;
(4) Notification of the right to file a petition for relief pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, or to await the Commissioner's notice of assessment, and to request a hearing in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. The notice shall also inform the person of the right to seek judicial review of any final administrative decision assessing a civil penalty.
(c) The person served with a notice of violation shall have 45 calendar days from the date of its service (or the date of service of a proposed penalty amount, if later) in which to respond. During this time the person may:
(1) Seek informal discussions with the Commissioner;
(2) File a petition for relief in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) Take no action and await the Commissioner's notice of assessment;
(4) Accept in writing or by payment the proposed penalty, or any mitigation or remission offered in the notice. Acceptance of the proposed penalty or mitigation or remission shall be deemed a waiver of the notice of assessment and of the right to request a hearing under paragraph (g) of this section.
(d)
Petition for relief.
The person served with a notice of violation may request that no penalty be assessed or that the amount be reduced, by filing a petition for relief with the Commissioner within 45 calendar days of the date of service of the notice of violation (or of a proposed penalty amount, if later). The petition shall be in writing and signed by the person served with the notice of violation. If the person is a corporation, the petition must be signed by an officer authorized to sign such documents. The petition shall set forth in full the legal or factual basis for the requested relief.
(e)
Assessment of penalty.
(1) The Commissioner shall assess a civil penalty upon expiration of the period for filing a petition for relief, upon completion of review of any petition filed, or upon completion of informal discussions, whichever is later.
(2) The Commissioner shall take into consideration all available information, including information provided pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section or furnished upon further request by the Commissioner.
(3) If the facts warrant a conclusion that no violation has occurred, the Commissioner shall so notify the person served with a notice of violation, and no penalty shall be assessed.
(4) Where the facts warrant a conclusion that a violation has occurred, the Commissioner shall determine a penalty amount in accordance with § 1104.15.
(f)
Notice of assessment.
The Commissioner shall notify the person served with a notice of violation of the penalty amount assessed by serving a written notice of assessment, either in person or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested). The Commissioner shall include in the notice of assessment:
(1) The facts and conclusions from which it was determined that a violation did occur;
(2) The basis in § 1104.15 for determining the penalty amount assessed and/or any offer to mitigate or remit the penalty; and
(3) Notification of the right to request a hearing, including the procedures to be followed, and to seek judicial review of any final administrative decision assessing a civil penalty.
(g)
Hearings.
(1) Except where the right to request a hearing is deemed to have been waived as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the person served with a notice of assessment may file a written request for a hearing with the adjudicatory body specified in the notice. The person shall enclose with the request for hearing a copy of
the notice of assessment, and shall deliver the request as specified in the notice of assessment, personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested).
(2) Failure to deliver a written request for a hearing within 45 days of the date of service of the notice of assessment shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing.
(3) Any hearing conducted pursuant to this section shall be held in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554. In any such hearing, the amount of civil penalty assessed shall be determined in accordance with this part, and shall not be limited by the amount assessed by the Commissioner under paragraph (f) of this section or any offer of mitigation or remission made by the Commissioner.
(h)
Final administrative decision.
(1) Where the person served with a notice of violation has accepted the penalty pursuant to paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the notice of violation shall constitute the final administrative decision;
(2) Where the person served with a notice of assessment has not filed a timely request for a hearing pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the notice of assessment shall constitute the final administrative decision;
(3) Where the person served with a notice of assessment has filed a timely request for a hearing pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the decision resulting from the hearing or any applicable administrative appeal therefrom shall constitute the final administrative decision.
(i)
Payment of penalty.
(1) The person assessed a civil penalty shall have 45 calendar days from the date of issuance of the final administrative decision in which to make full payment of the penalty assessed, unless a timely request for appeal has been filed with a United States District Court as provided in section 7(b)(1) of the Act.
(2) Upon failure to pay the penalty, the Commissioner may request the Attorney General to institute a civil action to collect the penalty in a United States District Court for any district in which the person assessed a civil penalty is found, resides, or transacts business. Where the Commissioner is not represented by the Attorney General, a civil action may be initiated directly by the Commissioner.
(j)
Other remedies not waived.
Assessment of a penalty under this section shall not be deemed a waiver of the right to pursue other available legal or administrative remedies.
§ 1104.15
Civil penalty amounts.
(a)
Maximum amount of penalty.
(1) Where the person being assessed a civil penalty has not committed any previous violation of any prohibition in § 1104.3 or of any term or condition included in a permit issued pursuant to this part, the maximum amount of the penalty shall be the full cost of restoration and repair of archaeological resources damaged plus the archaeological or commercial value of archaeological resources destroyed or not recovered.
(2) Where the person being assessed a civil penalty has committed any previous violation of any prohibition in § 1104.3 or of any term or condition included in a permit issued pursuant to this part, the maximum amount of the penalty shall be double the cost of restoration and repair plus double the archaeological or commercial value of archaeological resources destroyed or not recovered.
(3) Violations limited to the removal of arrowheads located on the surface of the ground shall not be subject to the penalties prescribed in this section.
(b)
Determination of penalty amount, mitigation, and remission.
The Commissioner may assess a penalty amount less than the maximum amount of penalty and may offer to mitigate or remit the penalty.
(1) Determination of the penalty amount and/or a proposal to mitigate or remit the penalty may be based upon any of the following factors:
(i) Agreement by the person being assessed a civil penalty to return to the Commissioner archaeological resources removed from public lands;
(ii) Agreement by the person being assessed a civil penalty to assist the Commissioner in activity to preserve, restore, or otherwise contribute to the protection and study of archaeological resources on public lands;
(iii) Agreement by the person being assessed a civil penalty to provide information which will assist in the detection, prevention, or prosecution of violations of the Act or this part;
(iv) Demonstration of hardship or inability to pay, provided that this factor shall only be considered when the person being assessed a civil penalty has not been found to have previously violated the regulations in this part;
(v) Determination that the person being assessed a civil penalty did not willfully commit the violation;
(vi) Determination that the proposed penalty would constitute excessive punishment under the circumstances;
(vii) Determination of other mitigating circumstances appropriate to consideration in reaching a fair and expeditious assessment.
(2) When the penalty is for a violation which may have had an effect on a known Indian tribal religious or cultural site on public lands, the Commissioner should consult with and consider the interests of the affected tribe(s) prior to proposing to mitigate or remit the penalty.
§ 1104.16
Other penalties and rewards.
(a) Section 6 of the Act contains criminal prohibitions and provisions for criminal penalties. Section 8(b) of the Act provides that archaeological resources, vehicles, or equipment involved in a violation may be subject to forfeiture.
(b) Section 8(a) of the Act provides for rewards to be made to persons who furnish information which leads to conviction for a criminal violation or to assessment of a civil penalty. The Commissioner may certify to the Secretary of the Treasury that a person is eligible to receive payment. Officers and employees of Federal, State, or local government who furnish information or render service in the performance of their official duties, and persons who have provided information under § 1104.15(b)(1)(iii) shall not be certified eligible to receive payment of rewards.
§ 1104.17
Confidentiality of archaeological resource information.
(a) The Commissioner shall not make available to the public, under subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5 of the United States Code or any other provision of law, information concerning the nature and location of any archaeological resource, with the following exceptions:
(1) The Commissioner may make information available, provided that the disclosure will further the purposes of the Act and this part, or the Act of June 27, 1960, as amended (16 U.S.C. 469-469c), without risking harm to the archaeological resource or to the site in which it is located.
(2) The Commissioner shall make information available, when the Governor of any State has submitted to the Commissioner a written request for information, concerning the archaeological resources within the requesting Governor's State, provided that the request includes:
(i) The specific archaeological resource or area about which information is sought;
(ii) The purpose for which the information is sought; and
(iii) The Governor's written commitment to adequately protect the confidentiality of the information.
§ 1104.18
Report to the Secretary of the Interior.
The Commissioner, when requested by the Secretary of the Interior, shall submit such information as is necessary to enable the Secretary to comply with section 13 of the Act.
PARTS 1105-1199 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. XII (4-1-25 Edition)
U.S. Intl. Development Coop. Agency

# CHAPTER XII—UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY
Part
Page
1200
[Reserved]
1201
Public information
349
1202
Regulations to implement the Privacy Act of 1974
349
1203
Employee responsibilities and conduct
349
1204-1299
[Reserved]
PART 1200 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1201

# PART 1201—PUBLIC INFORMATION

# Authority:
Sec. 621, 22 U.S.C. 2381, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 552.

# Cross Reference:
The regulations establishing procedures under the Freedom of Information Act for the United States International Development Cooperation Agency are codified in 22 CFR 212.1 through 212.51, prescribed jointly by the United States International Development Cooperation Agency and the Agency for International Development.
[45 FR 20790, Mar. 31, 1980]
Pt. 1202

# PART 1202—REGULATIONS TO IMPLEMENT THE PRIVACY ACT OF 1974

# Authority:
Sec. 621, 22 U.S.C. 2381, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 552a.

# Cross Reference—
The regulations establishing procedures by which an individual may obtain notification of the existence of agency records pertaining to that individual, gain access to those records, request an amendment to those records, and appeal adverse decisions to requests for amendment or correction of agency records are codified as 22 CFR 215.1 through 215.14, prescribed jointly by the United States International Development Cooperation Agency and the Agency for International Development.
[45 FR 20791, Mar. 31, 1980]
Pt. 1203

# PART 1203—EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1203.735-101
Purpose.
1203.735-102
Definitions.
1203.735-103
Interpretation and advisory service.
1203.735-104
Applicability to detailed employees.
1203.735-105
Disciplinary action.

# Subpart B—Ethical and Other Conduct and Responsibilities of Employees
1203.735-201
General.
1203.735-202
Gifts, entertainment, and favors.
1203.735-203
Gifts from foreign governments.
1203.735-204
Outside employment and other activity.
1203.735-205
Financial interests.
1203.735-206
Economic and financial activities of employees abroad.
1203.735-207
Use of Government property.
1203.735-208
Misuse of information.
1203.735-209
Indebtedness.
1203.735-210
Gambling, betting, and lotteries.
1203.735-211
Activities relating to private organizations and politics.
1203.735-212
Wearing of uniforms.
1203.735-213
Recommendations for employment.
1203.735-214
Transmitting communications and gifts.
1203.735-215
General conduct prejudicial to the Government.
1203.735-216
Miscellaneous statutory provisions.
1203.735-217
Requesting exceptions from certain statutory prohibitions.

# Subpart C—Ethical and Other Conduct and Responsibilities of Special Government Employees
1203.735-301
Conflicts of interest.
1203.735-302
Use of Government employment.
1203.735-303
Use of inside information.
1203.735-304
Coercion.
1203.735-305
Gifts, entertainment, and favors.
1203.735-306
Miscellaneous statutory provisions.

# Subpart D—Statements of Employment and Financial Interests
1203.735-401
Employees required to submit statements.
1203.735-402
Employees not required to submit statements.
1203.735-403
Employee's complaint on filing requirement.
1203.735-404
Time and place of submission, and forms.
1203.735-405
Information required.
1203.735-406
Submission of position description.
1203.735-407
Supplementary statements.
1203.735-408
Review of statements and determination as to conflicts of interest.
1203.735-409
Confidentiality of employees' statements.
1203.735-410
Effect of employees' statements on other requirements.
1203.735-411
Disqualification procedures.

# Authority:
E.O. 11222 of May 8, 1965, as amended; 5 CFR 735.104.

# Source:
43 FR 18976, May 2, 1978; 45 FR 18922, Mar. 24, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1203.735-101
Purpose.
The maintenance of the highest standards of honesty, integrity, impartiality, and conduct by Government employees and special Government employees is essential to assure the proper performance of the Government business and the maintenance of confidence by citizens in their Government. The avoidance of misconduct and conflicts of interest on the part of Government employees and special Government employees through informed judgment is indispensable to the maintenance of these standards. To accord with these concepts the regulations in this part prescribe standards of conduct and responsibilities for employees and special Government employees and require statements reporting employment and financial interests.

# Note:
These regulations are codified in State 3 FAM 620, AID Handbook 24, and ICA MOA V-A 550.
§ 1203.735-102
Definitions.
(a)
Agency
means the United States International Development Cooperation Agency (IDCA).
(b)
Employee
means an officer or employee at home or abroad, of an agency named in paragraph (a) of this section, but does not include a special Government employee or a member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or Public Health Service.
(c)
Executive order
means Executive Order 11222 of May 8, 1965, as amended.
(d)
Person
means an individual, a corporation, a company, an association, a firm, a partnership, a society, a joint stock company, or any other organization or institution.
(e)
Special Government employee
means an officer or employee of an agency who is retained, designated, appointed, or employed to perform, with or without compensation, for not to exceed 130 days during any period of 365 consecutive days, temporary duties either on a full-time or intermittent basis.
(f)
Member of an employee's family
means a spouse, minor child, or other member of an employee's immediate household. For the purpose of these regulations
member of an employee's immediate or in-law household
means those blood relations who are residents of the employee's household.
(g)
Counselor
means the agency's Counselor on Ethical Conduct and Conflicts of Interest.
§ 1203.735-103
Interpretation and advisory service.
(a) Counseling services on employee responsibilities and conduct are available in each agency. These services are to be coordinated by a Counselor appointed by the agency head. The Counselor for IDCA is the General Counsel. The Counselor serves as the agency's designee to the Civil Service Commission on matters covered by the regulations in this part and is responsible for coordination of the agency's counseling services under paragraph (b) of this section and for assuring that counseling and interpretations on questions of conflicts of interest and other matters covered by these sections are available to deputy counselors designated under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Each agency head may designate deputy counselors for the agency's employees and special Government employees. Deputy Counselors designated under this section must be qualified and in a position to give authoritative advice and guidance to each employee and special Government employee who seeks advice and guidance on questions of conflicts of interest and on other matters covered by the regulations in this part. A Washington employee or special Government employee should address any inquiries concerning the regulations in this part to the Counselor. At missions abroad the chief of each agency's establishment designates an officer, preferably the legal officer where one is available, to provide counseling services under the guidance of the Counselor; a single officer may serve all agencies. An employee or special Government employee serving abroad should submit inquiries to the officer designated.
(c) Each agency shall periodically notify its employees and special Government employees of the availability of counseling services and how and when
these services are available. A new employee or special Government employee shall be notified at the time of entrance on duty.
§ 1203.735-104
Applicability to detailed employees.
All the regulations of subparts A, B, and D of this part are applicable to an employee of another U.S. Government agency who may be serving on detail or assignment, formally or informally, on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis through a Participating Agency Service Agreement or otherwise, with an agency named in § 1203.735-102(a). However, disciplinary action shall be taken against such an employee only by the employing agency.
§ 1203.735-105
Disciplinary action.
A violation of the regulations in this part by an employee or special Government employee may be cause for appropriate disciplinary action, including separation for cause, which may be in addition to any penalty prescribed by law.

# Subpart B—Ethical and Other Conduct and Responsibilities of Employees
§ 1203.735-201
General.
(a)
Proscribed actions.
An employee shall avoid any action, whether or not specifically prohibited by the regulations in this part, which might result in, or create the appearance of:
(1) Using public office for private gain;
(2) Giving preferential treatment to any person;
(3) Impeding Government efficiency or economy;
(4) Losing independence or impartiality;
(5) Making a Government decision outside official channels; or
(6) Affecting adversely the confidence of the public in the integrity of the Government.
(b)
Applicability to members of families of employees.
A U.S. citizen employee shall take care that certain responsibilities placed on the employee are also observed by members of the employee's family. These are the restrictions in regard to: Acceptance of gifts (§§ 1203.735-202 and 1203.735-203); economic and financial activities abroad (§ 1203.735-206); teaching, lecturing, and writing (§ 1203.735-204(c)); participation in activities of private organizations (§ 1203.735-211(c)); and political activities abroad (§ 1203.735-211(g)).
§ 1203.735-202
Gifts, entertainment, and favors.
(a)
Acceptance prohibited.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, an employee shall not solicit or accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, gratuity, favor, entertainment, loan, or any other thing of monetary value, from a person who:
(1) Has, or is seeking to obtain, contractual or other business or financial relations with the employee's agency;
(2) Conducts operations or activities that are regulated by the employee's agency;
(3) Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or nonperformance of the employee's official duty; or
(4) Appears to be offering the gift with the hope or expectation of obtaining advantage or preferment in dealing with the U.S. Government for any purpose.
(b)
Acceptance permitted.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to:
(1) Gifts, gratuities, favors, entertainments, loans, or any other thing of monetary value received on account of close family or personal relationships when the circumstances make it clear that it is that relationship rather than the business of the persons concerned which is the motivating factor;
(2) Acceptance of loans from banks or other financial institutions on customary terms to finance proper and usual activities of employees, such as home mortgage loans;
(3) Acceptance of unsolicited advertising or promotional material, such as pens, pencils, note pads, calendars, and other items of nominal intrinsic value;
(4) Acceptance of rates and discounts offered to employees as a class.
(c)
Acceptance permitted for IDCA employees.
For IDCA employees the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to: Acceptance of food and
refreshments of nominal value on infrequent occasions in the ordinary course of a luncheon or dinner meeting or other meeting or on an inspection tour where an employee may properly be in attendance.
(d)
Acceptance permitted for AID employees.
For AID employees the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply in the following situations:
(1) Acceptance of food, refreshments, or entertainment of nominal value on infrequent occasions offered in the ordinary course of luncheons, dinners, or other meetings and gatherings hosted by foreign governments or agencies and officials thereof, embassies, and international organizations, where the primary purpose of the function is representational or social, rather than the transaction of business. Where the primary purpose of the function is the transaction of business, acceptance is not permitted, except if there is justification and reporting in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(2) Participation in widely attended lunches, dinners, and similar gatherings sponsored by industrial, technical, and professional associations for the discussion of matters of mutual interest to Government and industry.
(3) Acceptance of food, refreshments, or entertainment in the unusual situation where the employee, by virtue of the location of the person, firm, corporation, or other entity, or the regulations governing its dining facilities, finds it inconvenient or impracticable not to accept the offer. Each case of acceptance shall be reported in accordance with the requirement of paragraph (d)(4) of this section. In no other case shall employees accept food, refreshments, or entertainment from private corporations, entities, firms, or individual contractors at occasions which are other than widely attended functions whose purposes are unrelated to Agency business.
(4) In exceptional circumstances where acceptance of food, refreshments, or entertainment is not authorized by paragraphs (d) (1), (2), and (3) of this section, but where, in the judgment of the individual concerned, the Government's interest would be served by such acceptance directly or indirectly from any foreign government, agency, or official thereof or a private person, firm, corporation, or other entity which is engaged or is endeavoring to engage in business transactions of any sort with AID, an employee may accept the offer:
Provided,
That a report of the circumstances, together with the employee's statement as to how the Government's interests were served, will be made within 48 hours to the employee's supervisor, or, if the employee is serving abroad, or on temporary duty abroad, to the Mission Director.
(e)
Gifts to superiors.
An employee shall for a gift to an official superior, make a donation as a gift to an official superior, or accept a gift from an employee receiving less pay than the employee (5 U.S.C. 7351). However, this paragraph does not prohibit a voluntary gift of nominal value or donation in a nominal amount made on a special occasion such as marriage, illness, or retirement.
(f)
Neither this section nor § 1203.735-204
precludes an employee from receipt of bona fide reimbursement, unless prohibited by law, for expenses of travel and such other necessary subsistence as is compatible with this part for which no Government payment or reimbursement is made. However, this paragraph does not allow an employee to be reimbursed, or payment to be made on the employee's behalf, for excessive personal living expenses, gifts, entertainment, or other personal benefits, nor does it allow an employee to be reimbursed by a person for travel on official business under agency orders when reimbursement is proscribed by Decision B-128527 of the Comptroller General dated March 7, 1967.
§ 1203.735-203
Gifts from foreign governments.
An employee shall not accept a gift, present, decoration, or other thing from a foreign government unless authorized by Congress as provided by the Constitution and in 5 U.S.C. 7342, and the regulations promulgated thereunder pursuant to E.O. 11320, 31 FR 15789. These regulations are set forth in part 3 of this title (as added, 32 FR 6569, Apr. 28, 1967), and in 3 FAM 621.
§ 1203.735-204
Outside employment and other activity.
(a) An employee shall not engage in outside employment or other outside activity not compatible with the full and proper discharge of the duties and responsibilities of Government employment. Incompatible activities include but are not limited to:
(1) Acceptance of a fee, compensation, gift, payment of expense, or any other thing of monetary value in circumstances in which acceptance may result in, or create the appearance of, conflicts of interest; or
(2) Outside employment which tends to impair the employee's mental or physical capacity to perform Government duties and responsibilities in an acceptable manner.
(b) An employee shall not receive any salary or anything of monetary value from a private source as compensation for the employee's services to the Government (18 U.S.C. 209).
(c) Employees are encouraged to engage in teaching, lecturing, and writing that is not prohibited by law, the Executive order, this part, or the agency regulations. However, an employee shall not, either for or without compensation, engage in teaching, lecturing, or writing including teaching, lecturing, or writing for the purpose of the special preparation of a person or class of persons for an examination of the Civil Service Commission or Board of Examiners for the Foreign Service, that is dependent on information obtained as a result of Government employment, except when that information has been made available to the general public or will be made available on request or when the agency head gives written authorization for use of nonpublic information on the basis that the use is in the public interest. In addition, an employee who is a Presidential appointee covered by section 401(a) of the Executive order shall not receive compensation or anything of monetary value for any consultation, lecture, discussion, writing, or appearance the subject matter of which is devoted substantially to the responsibilities, programs, or operations of the employee's agency, or which draws substantially on official data or ideas which have not become part of the body of public information. Employees are referred to the detailed rules of their agency with respect to clearance and acceptance of compensation (See AID Handbook 18)
(d) [Reserved]
(e) An employee shall not render any services, whether or not compensated, to any foreign government, state, province, or semigovernmental agency, or municipality of any foreign government, or to any international organization of states. However, this shall not prevent the rendering of such services by employees acting on behalf of the United States. Nor shall this provision prevent the rendering of services to an international organization of states when otherwise consistent with law and when authorized by the appropriate officer. The appropriate officer for IDCA is the Assistant Director for Administration.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) This section does not preclude an employee from:
(1) Participation in the activities of national or State political parties not proscribed by law.
(2) Participation in the affairs of or acceptance of an award for a meritorious public contribution or achievement given by a charitable, religious, professional, social, fraternal, nonprofit educational and recreational, public service, or civic organization.
§ 1203.735-205
Financial interests.
(a) An employee shall not: (1) Have a direct or indirect financial interest that conflicts substantially, or appears to conflict substantially with the employee's Government duties and responsibilities; or
(2) Engage in, directly or indirectly, a financial transaction as a result of, or primarily relying on, information obtained through Government employment.
(b) This section does not preclude an employee from having a financial interest or engaging in financial transactions to the same extent as a private citizen not employed by the Government so long as it is not prohibited by law or the regulations in this part.
(c) Pursuant to the provision of 18 U.S.C. 208(b) the following described financial interests of an employee are
hereby exempted from the requirements of 18 U.S.C. 208(a) and 208(b)(1) as being too remote or too inconsequential to affect the integrity of the services of an employee. The exemption applies to the financial interests held directly by an employee, by the employee's spouse or minor child whether individually or jointly with the employee, or by an employee and any partner or partners as joint assets of the partnership:
(1) Investments in State and local government bonds; and stocks, bonds, or policies in a mutual fund, investment company, bank or insurance company, provided that in the case of a mutual fund, investment company, or bank, the fair value of such stock or bond holding does not exceed one percent of the value of the reported assets of the mutual fund, investment company, or bank. In the case of a mutual fund or investment company, this exemption applies only where the assets of the fund or company are diversified; it does not apply where the fund or company specializes in a particular industry or commodity.
(2) Interest in an investment club or other group organized for the purpose of investing in equity or debt securities:
Provided,
That the fair value of the interest involved does not exceed $10,000 and that the interest does not exceed one-fourth of the total assets of the investment club or group. Where an employee covered by this exemption is a member of a group organized for the purpose of investing in equity or debt securities, the interest of the employee in any enterprise in which the group holds securities shall be based upon the employee's equity share of the holdings of the group in that enterprise.
(3) If an employee, or the employee's spouse or minor child has a present beneficial interest or a vested remainder interest under a trust, the ownership of stocks, bonds, or other corporate securities under the trust will be exempt to the same extent as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section for the direct ownership of such securities. The ownership of bonds other than corporate bonds, or of shares in a mutual fund or regulated investment company, under the trust will be equally exempt and to the same extent as under paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section.
(4) If an employee is an officer, director, trustee, or employee of an educational institution, or if the employee is negotiating for, or has an arrangement concerning prospective employment with such an institution, a direct financial interest which the institution has in any matter will not itself be exempt, but any financial interest that the institution may have in the matter through its holdings of securities issued by business entities will be exempt:
Provided,
The employee is not serving as a member of the investment committee of the institution or is not otherwise advising it on its investment portfolio.
(5) An employee may continue to participate in a bona fide pension, retirement, group life, health or accident insurance plan, or other employee welfare or benefit plan that is maintained by a business or nonprofit organization by which the employee was formerly employed. Such financial interest in that organization will be exempt, except to the extent that the welfare or benefit plan is a profit-sharing or stock-bonus plan and the employee's financial interest thereunder exceeds $10,000. This exemption extends also to any financial interests that the organization may have in other business activities.
(d) Nothing in this part shall be deemed to prohibit an employee from acting, with or without compensation, as agent or attorney for the employee's parents, spouse, child, or any person for whom, or for any estate for which, the employee is serving as guardian, executor, administrator, trustee, or other personal fiduciary, except in those matters in which the employee has participated personally and substantially as a Government employee, through decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, the rendering of advice, investigation, or otherwise, or which are the subject of the employee's official responsibility, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 202(b):
Provided,
The head of the employee's division approves in writing.
§ 1203.735-206
Economic and financial activities of employees abroad.
(a)
Prohibitions in any foreign country.
A U.S. citizen employee abroad is specifically prohibited from engaging in the activities listed below in any foreign country.
(1) Speculation in currency exchange.
(2) Transactions at exchange rates differing from local legally available rates, unless such transactions are duly authorized in advance by the agency.
(3) Sales to unauthorized persons (whether at cost or for profit) of currency acquired at preferential rates through diplomatic or other restricted arrangements.
(4) Transactions which entail the use, without official sanction, of the diplomatic pouch.
(5) Transfers of funds on behalf of blocked nationals, or otherwise in violation of U.S. foreign funds and assets control.
(6) Independent and unsanctioned private transactions which involve an employee as an individual in violation of applicable control regulations of foreign governments.
(7) Acting as an intermediary in the transfer of private funds from persons in one country to persons in another country, including the United States.
(8) Permitting use of one's official title in any private business transactions or in advertisements for business purposes.
(b)-(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Business activities of non-U.S. citizen employees.
A non-U.S citizen employee abroad may engage in outside business activities with the prior approval of the head of the overseas establishment on the basis of the standards expressed in § 1203.735-204(a).
§ 1203.735-207
Use of Government property.
An employee shall not directly or indirectly use, or allow the use of Government property of any kind, including property leased to the Government, for other than officially approved activities. An employee has a positive duty to protect and conserve Government property, including equipment, supplies, and other property entrusted or issued to the employee.
§ 1203.735-208
Misuse of information.
For the purpose of furthering a private interest, an employee shall not, except as provided in § 1203.735-204(c) directly or indirectly use, or allow the use of, official information obtained through or in connection with Government employment which has not been made available to the general public.
§ 1203.735-209
Indebtedness.
An employee shall pay each just financial obligation in a proper and timely manner, especially one imposed by law such as Federal, State, or local taxes. For the purpose of this section, a
just financial obligation
means one acknowledged by the employee or reduced to judgement by a court or one imposed by law such as Federal, State, or local taxes, and “in a proper and timely manner” means in a manner which the agency determines does not, under the circumstances, reflect adversely on the Government as the employer. In the event of dispute between an employee and an alleged creditor, this section does not require an agency to determine the validity or amount of the disputed debt.
§ 1203.735-210
Gambling, betting, and lotteries.
An employee shall not participate, while on Government-owned or leased property or while on duty for the Government, in any gambling activity including the operation of a gambling device, in conducting a lottery or pool, in a game for money or property, or in selling or purchasing a numbers slip or ticket. However, this section does not preclude activities:
(a) Necessitated by an employee's law enforcement duties; or
(b) Under section 3 of Executive Order 10927 and similar agency-approved activities.
§ 1203.735-211
Activities relating to private organizations and politics.
(a)
Definition.
For the purpose of this section, the term
private organization
denotes any group of persons or associations organized for any purpose whatever, except an organization established by the Government of the United States, or officially participated in by IDCA.
(b)
Participation in activities of employee organizations.
An employee may join or refrain from joining employee organizations or associations without interference, coercion, restraint, or fear of discrimination or reprisal.
(c)
Participation in activities of private organizations.
In participating in the program and activities of any private organization, an employee shall make clear that the employee's agency has no official connection with such organization and does not necessarily sponsor or sanction the viewpoints which it may express.
(d)
Legal restrictions on membership in certain organizations.
An employee shall not have membership in any organization that advocates the overthrow of our constitutional form of Government in the United States, knowing that such organization so advocates (5 U.S.C. 7311, 18 U.S.C. 1918).
(e)
Private organizations concerned with foreign policy or other matters of concern to agencies.
(1) Limitation on participation. When a private organization is concerned primarily with foreign policy or international relations or other matters of concern to an employee's agency, an employee shall limit connection therewith as follows: Unless specifically permitted to do so, the employee may not serve as advisor, officer, director, teacher, sponsor, committee chairman, or in any other official capacity or permit the employee's name to be used on a letterhead, in a publication, in an announcement or news story, or at a public meeting, regardless of whether the employee's official title or connection is mentioned. The provisions of this section are not intended to prohibit the normal and active participation of an employee in professional organizations such as the American Political Science Association, the American Economic Association, the American Foreign Service Association, and similar organizations, since such participation is in the interest of both the employee and the Government. Employees are expected, however, to exercise discretion in such activities and are held personally accountable for any improper use of their relationship with IDCA.
(2) Request for special permission. Special permission to assume or continue a connection prohibited by paragraph (e)(1) of this section may be granted in cases where the public interest will not be adversely affected. To request such permission, or to determine whether the provisions are applicable to a particular case, the employee shall address a memorandum setting forth all of the circumstances to the appropriate officer. The appropriate officer for IDCA is the Assistant Director for Administration.
(3) Application to senior officers. Because of the prominence resulting from their official positions, chiefs of mission and other senior officers should recognize the particular bearing of the provisions of paragraph (e)(1) of this section upon their activities. They should restrict association with any organizations involving foreign nations and the United States to simple membership and should not accept even honorary office in such organizations except with the specific prior approval as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(f)
Private organizations not concerned with foreign policy.
When the purpose and program of the organization do not fall primarily within the field of foreign policy or international relations, the employee's activity is limited only to the following extent:
(1) The employee's official title or connection may be used to identify the employee, as in a civic association election, but may not be used on a letterhead, in a publication, or otherwise so as to employ the prestige of the U.S. Government to enhance that of the organization or to imply official sponsorship.
(2) When the employee is a representative of an association consisting of IDCA employees, or of a group of such employees, the employee's connection with the agency may be freely used so long as there is no implication of official sponsorship beyond that which may have been officially approved.
(g)
Political activities abroad.
A U.S. citizen employee shall not engage in any form of political activity in any foreign country.
(h)
Activities relating to U.S. politics.
The law (5 U.S.C. 7324, formerly the Hatch Act) provides in summary that it is unlawful for any Federal employee
of the executive branch to use the employee's official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with an election or affecting the result thereof, or to take any active part in political management or in political campaigns. These restrictions do not in any way affect the right of a Federal employee (1) to vote as the employee chooses; (2) to express personal political opinions, except as part of a campaign; (3) to make or refrain from making contributions to political organizations, provided contributions are not made in a Federal building or to another Federal officer or employee (see 18 U.S.C. 602, 603, 607, and 608); (4) to participate in local, nonpartisan activities.
§ 1203.735-212
Wearing of uniforms.
(a) An employee of the Foreign Service may not wear any uniform except as may be authorized by law or as a military commander may require civilians to wear in a theater of military operations (22 U.S.C. 803). When an employee is authorized by law or required by a military commander of the United States to wear a uniform, care shall be taken that the uniform is worn only at authorized times and for authorized purposes.
(b) Conventional attire worn by chauffeurs, elevator operators, and other miscellaneous employees are not considered uniforms within the meaning of this section except that, for ICA, MOA VII 917.2b prohibits the purchase from Agency funds of uniforms or any item of personal wearing apparel other than special protective clothing.
§ 1203.735-213
Recommendations for employment.
(a)
Making recommendations in official capacity.
In general, an employee shall not, in the employee's official capacity, make any recommendations in connection with the employment of persons unless the position concerned are with the Government of the United States and the recommendations are made in response to an inquiry from a Government official authorized to employ persons or to investigate applicants for employment. A principal officer in answer to a letter of inquiry from outside the U.S. Government concerning a former employee assigned to the post, may state the length of time the person was employed at the post and the fact that the former employee performed duties in a satisfactory manner, if such is the case. Also, an AID Mission Director may provide names of persons or firms from which a cooperating government may select an employee or firm to be used in some phase of the AID program.
(b)
Making personal recommendations.
An employee may make a personal recommendation in connection with the employment of any person, including present or former employees, their spouses and/or members of their families, except for employment in a position of trust or profit under the government of the country to which the employee is accredited or assigned (22 U.S.C. 806(b)):
Provided,
That the employee does not divulge any information concerning the person derived from official sources. When a letter of introduction or recommendation is written by an employee, precautionary measures should be taken to prevent its being construed as official correspondence and used by an unscrupulous individual to impress American or foreign officials. Accordingly, official stationery should not be used for this purpose. The letter may, however, show the recommending employee's status as an employee of the U. S. Government. Every personal letter of recommendation shall contain a statement clearly indicating that the letter constitutes a personal recommendation and is not to be construed as an official recommendation by the Government of the United States.
§ 1203.735-214
Transmitting communications and gifts.
(a)
Correspondence.
In corresponding with anyone other than the proper official of the United States with regard to the public affairs of a foreign government, an employee shall use discretion and judgment to ensure that neither the United States nor the employee will be embarrassed or placed in a compromising position (22 U.S.C. 806(a)).
(b)
Communications.
An employee shall not act as an agent for the transmission of communications from private persons or organizations in foreign countries to the President or to
Federal, State, or municipal officials in the United States. A chief of mission may, however, accept communications of this nature and forward them to the Department of State for such further action as may be appropriate, whenever the chief of mission determines it to be clearly in the public interest to do so.
(c)
Gifts.
An employee shall not act as an agent for the transmission of gifts from persons or organizations in foreign countries to the President or to Federal, State, or municipal officials of the United States. However, principal officers may, according to regulations prescribed by the President, accept, and forward to the Office of Protocol of the Department of State, gifts made to the United States or to any political subdivision thereof by the Government to which they are accredited or from which they hold exequaturs. Employees shall not, without the approval of the Secretary of State, transmit gifts from persons or organizations in the United States to heads or other officials of foreign states.
§ 1203.735-215
General conduct prejudicial to the Government.
(a) An employee shall not engage in criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously disgraceful conduct, or other conduct prejudicial to the Government.
(b) An employee abroad is also obligated to obey the laws of the country in which the employee is present.
(c) An employee shall observe the requirements of courtesy, consideration, and promptness in dealing with or serving the public.
§ 1203.735-216
Miscellaneous statutory provisions.
Each employee shall become acquainted with each statute that relates to the employee's ethical and other conduct as an agency employee of and of the Government.
(a) The attention of employees is directed to the following statutory provisions:
(1) House Concurrent Resolution 175, 85th Congress, 2d session, 72 Stat. B12, the “Code of Ethics for Government Service.”
(2) Chapter 11 of title 18, United States Code, relating to bribery, graft, and conflicts of interest, as appropriate to the employees concerned.
(3) The prohibition against lobbying with appropriated funds (18 U.S.C. 1913).
(4) The prohibitions against disloyalty and striking (5 U.S.C. 7311, 18 U.S.C. 1918).
1
1
The Courts have stricken from the Code any prohibition against assertion of the right to strike on the basis that such an assertion is a protected right under the First Amendment to the Constitution.
(5) The prohibitions against (i) the disclosure of classified information (18 U.S.C. 798, 50 U.S.C. 783); and (ii) the disclosure of confidential information (18 U.S.C. 1905).
(6) The provision relating to the habitual use of intoxicants to excess (5 U.S.C. 7352).
(7) The prohibition against the misuse of a Government vehicle (31 U.S.C. 638a(c)).
(8) The prohibition against the misuse of the franking privilege (18 U.S.C. 1719).
(9) The prohibition against the use of deceit in an examination or personnel action in connection with Government employment (18 U.S.C. 1917).
(10) The prohibition against fraud or false statements in a Government matter (18 U.S.C. 1001).
(11) The prohibition against mutilating or destroying a public record (18 U.S.C. 2071).
(12) The prohibition against counterfeiting and forging transportation requests (18 U.S.C. 508).
(13) The prohibition against (i) embezzlement of Government money or property (18 U.S.C. 641); (ii) failing to account for public money (18 U.S.C. 643); and (iii) embezzlement of the money or property of another person in the possession of an employee by reason of the employee's employment (18 U.S.C. 654).
(14) The prohibition against unauthorized use of documents relating to claims from or by the Government (18 U.S.C. 285).
(15) The prohibition against political activities in subchapter III of chapter 73 of title 5, United States Code and 18 U.S.C. 602, 603, 607, and 608.
(16) The prohibition against an employee acting as the agent of a foreign principal registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act (18 U.S.C. 219).
(17) The prohibition against discrimination because of politics, race, religion, or color (22 U.S.C. 807).
(18) The prohibition against officers or employees accepting any honorarium in excess of $2,000 or honoraria aggregating more than $25,000 in any calendar year (sec. 112, Pub. L. 94-283, 90 Stat. 494 (2 U.S.C. 441i)).
(b) The attention of consular officers is directed to the following statutory provisions:
(1) The provisions relating to the duty to account for fees received (22 U.S.C. 9, 812, 1194), liability for exaction of excessive fees (22 U.S.C. 1182, 1189), and liability for failure to collect proper fees (22 U.S.C. 1190).
(2) The provisions relating to liability for failure to give bond and for embezzlement (22 U.S.C. 1179), liability for embezzlement of fees or effects of American citizens (22 U.S.C. 1198), and liability for falsely certifying as to the ownership of property (22 U.S.C. 1200).
(3) The prohibition against profiting from dealings with discharged seamen (22 U.S.C. 1187).
(4) The provision relating to liability for failure to collect the wages of discharged seamen (46 U.S.C. 683).
§ 1203.735-217
Requesting exceptions from certain statutory prohibitions.
(a) Any employee desiring a written advance determination that the prohibitions of 18 U.S.C. 208(a) do not apply will prepare a written request addressed to an appropriate agency official. For purposes of this section, the appropriate agency official is: The Deputy Under Secretary for Management for State, the Administrator for AID, and the Director for ICA. The request will describe the particular matter giving rise to the conflict of interest, the nature and extent of the employee's anticipated participation in the particular matter, and the exact nature and amount of the financial interest related to the particular matter.
(b) The employee will forward the request to the appropriate agency official through the immediate supervisor and the assistant agency head in charge of the organizational agency component to which the employee is assigned, or will be assigned in the case of a new employee. The assistant agency head will forward the written request to the appropriate agency official through the agency's Counselor. The Counselor shall attach a written opinion to the request, prepare a recommended written determination in final form for signature by the appropriate agency official, and shall forward all documents to that official.
(c) The determination of the appropriate agency official will be sent to the employee by the Counselor. If the appropriate agency official grants the requested exception, the original written advance determination will be sent to the employee. A duplicate original shall be retained among the appropriate agency records under the control of the Counselor.

# Subpart C—Ethical and Other Conduct and Responsibilities of Special Government Employees
§ 1203.735-301
Conflicts of interest.
Special Government employees are subject to the conflicts of interest statutes (18 U.S.C. 202). An explanation of these conflicts of interest statutes their effects upon special Government employees and guidelines for obtaining and utilizing the services of special Government employees are in appendix C of chapter 735 of the Federal Personnel Manual. A special Government employee shall not have a direct or indirect financial interest that conflicts substantially, or appears to conflict substantially, with Government duties and responsibilities.
§ 1203.735-302
Use of Government employment.
A special Government employee shall not use Government employment for a purpose that is, or gives the appearance of being, motivated by the desire for private gain for the employee or another person, particularly one with whom the employee has family, business, or financial ties.
§ 1203.735-303
Use of inside information.
(a) A special Government employee shall not use inside information obtained as a result of Government employment for private gain for the employee or another person either by direct action on the employee's part or by counsel, recommendation, or suggestion to another person, particularly one with whom the employee has family, business, or financial ties. For the purpose of this section, “inside information” means information obtained under Government authority which has not become part of the body of public information.
(b) A special Government employee may engage in teaching, lecturing, or writing that is not prohibited by law, Executive Order 11222 or the restrictions in this part; however, a special Government employee shall not, either for or without compensation, engage in teaching, lecturing, or writing that is dependent on information obtained as a result of his Government employment, except when that information has been made available to the general public or will be made available, or when the head of the agency gives written authoritzation for the use of nonpublic information on the basis that the use is in the public interest. A special Government employee who wishes to request the agency head to authorize the use of nonpublic information should submit such request through the Counselor. The request should contain complete information concerning the nonpublic information which the employee wishes to disclose and should contain in addition an indication of the intended use of such information and how disclosure of it would be in the public interest.
§ 1203.735-304
Coercion.
A special Government employee shall not use Government employment to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, a person to provide financial benefit to the employee or another person, particularly one with whom the employee has family, business, or financial ties.
§ 1203.735-305
Gifts, entertainment, and favors.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a special Government employee, while so employed or in connection with Government employment, shall not receive or solicit from a person having business with the employee's agency anything of value as a gift, gratuity, loan, entertainment, or favor for the employee or another person, particularly one with whom the employee has family, business or financial ties.
(b) The exceptions to the prohibition against the acceptance of gifts which have been granted to employees in § 1203.735-202 (b), (c), and (d) are also applicable to special Government employees.
(c) A special Government employee shall not accept a gift, present, decoration, or other thing from a foreign government unless authorized by Congress as provided by the Constitution and in 5 U.S.C. 7342, and the regulations promulgated thereunder pursuant to E.O. 11320; 31 FR 15789. These regulations are set forth in part 3 of this title (as added, 32 FR 6569, April 28, 1967), and in 3 FAM 621.
(d) A special Government employee shall avoid any action, whether or not specifically prohibited by these sections on special Government employees, which might result in, or create the appearance of:
(1) Using public office for private gain;
(2) Giving preferential treatment to any person;
(3) Impeding Government efficiency or economy;
(4) Losing independence or impartiality;
(5) Making a Government decision outside official channels; or
(6) Affecting adversely the confidence of the public in the integrity of the Government.
§ 1203.735-306
Miscellaneous statutory provisions.
Each special Government employee shall become acquainted with each statute that relates to the employee's ethical and other conduct as a special Government employee of an agency and of the Government. The attention
of special Government employees is directed to the statutes listed in § 1203.735-216.

# Subpart D—Statements of Employment and Financial Interests
§ 1203.735-401
Employees required to submit statements.
The following employees of IDCA shall submit statements of employment and financial interests:
(a) All special Government employees including experts or consultants serving on a full-time or intermittent basis, except when waived under § 1203.735-402(c).
(b) Employees paid at a level of the Executive Schedule in subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, except as provided in § 1203.735-402(b).
(c) Except as provided in § 1203.735-402, employees classified at GS-13, FSO-4, FSR-5, FSS-2, AD-13, FC-5, or above, who are in positions hereby identified either as positions the basic duties of which impose upon the incumbent the responsibility for a Government decision or taking a Government action in regard to:
(1) Contracting or procurement;
(2) Administering or monitoring grants or subsidies;
(3) Regulating or auditing private or other non-Federal enterprise;
(4) Other activities where the decision or action has an economic impact on the interests of any non-Federal enterprise, or as positions which have duties and responsibilities which require the incumbent to report employment and financial interests in order to avoid involvement in a possible conflict of interest situation and carry out the purpose of law, Executive order, and the agency's regulations:

# State
Director General; of the Foreign Service and the Director of Personnel; Director of the Policy Planning Staff; Inspector General; Director, FSI; Special Assistant to Secretary; Deputy Secretary, Under Secretaries, or Deputy Under Secretary; Deputy Assistant Secretary and others at this level or above; Assistant Legal Adviser for Management; Director, Office of Operations; Office Director; Country Director; Division Chief in Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, in the Office of Operations, (O/OPR), or in the Office of Foreign Buildings; Executive Director; Deputy Chief of Mission; Principal Officer; Economic Counselor; Commercial Counselor; Administrative Counselor; Civil Air Attache; Petroleum Officer; Minerals Officer; Contracting Specialist; Procurement Specialist; Despatch Agent; Traffic Manager; and Traffic Management Specialist.

# ICA
Deputy Director, Associate Directors, Directors and Deputy Directors of Offices or Services, Executive or Special Assistants to the Director; Chief Inspector; Associate Chief Inspector; Commissioner General, Deputy Commissioner General, Staff Director (Advisory Commission), Director of Engineering and Technical Operations; Director of Audio-Visual Procurement and Production; Country Public Affairs Officer, Deputy Country Public Affairs Officer, Public Affairs Counselor, Deputy Public Affairs Counselor, Director or Manager of Regional Service Center, Radio Relay Station, Radio Program Center or Radio Relay Station Construction Site, Administrative Officer or Executive Officer at a post abroad, Administrative Officer, Executive Officer and Business Manager (occupational codes 301, 340, 341, and 1101, or FAS code 200); Contracting Specialist and Procurement Specialist (occupational code 1102, or FAS codes 210 and 211); Auditor and Accountant (occupational code 510, or FAS code 207); General Counsel, Deputy General Counsel, or Attorney (occupational code 905, or FAS code 512).

# AID
(1) AID/W: Deputy Assistant Administrators, Associate Assistant Administrators, Deputy Associate Assistant Administrators; Heads and Deputy Heads of Offices, Staffs, and Divisions; Desk Officers and Deputy Desk Officers.
(2) Overseas: Mission Directors, Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors, AID Representatives, Aid Affairs Officers, Chairman, Development Assistance Committee; U.S. Representative to Development Assistance Committee; Development Coordination Officer.
(3) Any person serving as chief of an operational branch responsible for housing, loans, guarantees, or other commercial type transactions with the public.
(4) In addition, employees in AID/W or overseas whose positions fall within the following series or position titles (occupational code given in parenthesis): Economist Series (0110); International Cooperation Series (0136); Auditor General (0301.21); Supervisory Housing Development Officer (0301.31); Chief, Housing and Urban Development (0301.35);
Contract Compliance Specialist (0301.48); Director for Regional Activities (0340.08); Development Officer (0340.09); Regional Development Officer (0340.10); Executive Officer (0341.01); Deputy Executive Officer (0341.02); Regional Executive Officer (0341.03); Administrative Officer (0341.05); Executive Officer—Administrative Support (0341.15); Executive Officer, Operations (0341.16); Executive Officer, Real Property (0341.18); Executive Officer, Personnel (0341.19); General Services Officer (0342.01); Assistant General Services Officer (0342.03); Assistant General Services Officer, Property and Supply (0342.20); Assistant General Services Officer, Procurement (0342.23); Assistant General Services Officer, Housing (0342.25); Program Officer (0345.01); Deputy Program Officer (0345.02); Food and Agriculture Officer (0401.01); Deputy Food and Agriculture Officer (0401.02); Budget and Accounting Series (0504); Financial Management Series (0505); Accounting Series (0510); Budget Administration Series (0560); General Attorney Series (0905); General Business and Industry Series (1101); Contract and Procurement Series (1102); Property Disposal Series (1104); Purchasing Series (1105); Trade Specialist Series (1140); Private Resources Development Series (1150); Financial Analysis Series (1160); General Investigating Series (1810); Criminal Investigating Series (1811); Import Specialist Series (1889); General Supply Series (2001); Supply Program Management Series (2003).
§ 1203.735-402
Employees not required to submit statements.
(a) Employees in positions that meet the criteria in paragraph (c) of § 1203.735-401 may be excluded from the reporting requirement when the agency head or designee determines that:
(1) The duties of the position are such that the likelihood of the incumbent's involvement in a conflict-of-interest situation is remote;
(2) The duties of the position are at such a level of responsibility that the submission of a statement of employment and financial interests is not necessary because of the degree of supervision and review over incumbent or the inconsequential effect on the integrity of the Government.
(b) A statement of employment and financial interests is not required by the regulations in this part from an agency head, or a full-time member of a committee, board, or commission appointed by the President. These employees are subject to separate reporting requirements under section 401 of Exective Order 11222.
(c) Special Government employees not required to submit statements. An agency head may waive the requirement of this section for the submission of a statement of employment and financial interest in the case of a special Government employee who is not a consultant or an expert when the agency finds that the duties of the position held by that special Government employee are of a nature and at such a level of responsibility that the submission of the statement by the incumbent is not necessary to protect the integrity of the Government. For the purpose of this paragraph, “consultant” and “expert” have the meanings given those terms by chapter 304 of the Federal Personnel Manual, but do not include a physician, dentist, or allied medical specialist whose services are procured to provide care and service to patients.
§ 1203.735-403
Employee's complaint on filing requirement.
Each employee shall have the opportunity for review through agency grievance procedure of the employee's complaint that the employee's position has been improperly included within § 1203.735-401 as one requiring the submission of a statement of employment and financial interests. Employees are reminded that they may obtain counseling pursuant to § 1203.735-103 prior to filing a complaint.
§ 1203.735-404
Time and place of submission, and forms.
(a) An employee or special Government employee shall submit a statement to the Counselor (in the case of a State employee, through the employee's Bureau) no later than:
(1) Ninety days after the effective date of this part if the employee has entered on duty on or before that effective date; or
(2) At least 10 days prior to entrance on duty, if the employee enters on duty after that effective date; except that an employee or special Government employee who enters on duty within 90 days of the effective date of this part may submit such statement within 90 days after entrance on duty.
(b) Only the original of the statement or supplement thereto required by this
part shall be submitted. The individual submitting a statement should retain a copy for the individual's own records.
§ 1203.735-405
Information required.
(a)
Employees.
Employees' statement of employment and financial interests required by the regulations in this part shall be submitted on the form, “Confidential Statement of Employment and Financial Interests (for use by Government Employees)”, Form OF-106, and shall contain all the information therein required.
(b)
Special Government employees.
All special Government employees shall submit statements of employment and financial interest on the form, “Confidential Statement of Employment and Financial Interests (for use by Special Government Employees)”, Form AID 4-450 for IDCA, and shall contain all the information therein required.
(c)
Interests of employee's relatives.
The interest of a member of an employee's family is considered to be an interest of the employee. The term “member of an employee's family” is defined in § 1203.735-102(f).
(d)
Information not known by employees.
If any information required to be included on a statement of employment and financial interests or supplementary statement, including holdings placed in trust, is not known to the employee but is known to another person, the employee shall request that other person to submit information in the employee's behalf.
(e)
Interests not required to be reported.
An employee need not disclose those financial interests described in § 1203.735-205(c) as being too remote or too inconsequential to affect the integrity of employees' services.
(f)
Information not required.
The regulations in this part do not require an employee to submit on a statement of employment and financial interests or supplementary statement any information relating to the employee's connection with, or interest in, a professional society or a charitable, religious, social, fraternal, recreational, public service, civic, or political organization or a similar organization not conducted as a business enterprise. For the purpose of this section, educational and other institutions doing research and development or related work involving grants or money from or contracts with the Government are deemed “business enterprises” and are required to be included in an employee's statement of employment and financial interests.
§ 1203.735-406
Submission of position description.
Each Statement of Employment and Financial Interests or annual supplement thereto must be accompanied by a full description of the employee's principal governmental duties. The description should be particularly detailed in regard to those duties which might possibly be an element in a conflict of interest. If the statement indicates that the employee has no outside employment or financial interests, the employee need not submit a description of duties. For a special Government employee, the employing office shall submit the description.
§ 1203.735-407
Supplementary statements.
(a) Employees, as defined in paragraphs (b) and (c) of § 1203.735-401, shall report changes in, or additions to, the information contained in their statements of employment and financial interests in supplementary statements as of June 30 each year. If no changes or additions occur, a negative report is required.
(b) All special Government employees, as defined in paragraph (a) of § 1203.735-401, shall submit a current statement at the time their appointments are extended. A supplementary report indicating any changes in, or additions to the information already submitted will be accepted in lieu of a full submission. If there are no changes or additions, a negative report is required.
(c) Notwithstanding the filing of reports required by this section, each employee shall at all times avoid acquiring a financial interest that could result, or taking an action that would result, in a violation of the conflicts-of-interest provisions of section 208 of title 18, United States Code, or subpart B of this part.
(d) An employee is also to keep current the employee's description of principal duties as to changes or additions
which might possibly be an element in a conflict of interest. The employing office shall submit descriptions of changes in the principal duties of a special Government employee as they occur.
§ 1203.735-408
Review of statements and determination as to conflicts of interest.
(a) On the basis of the Statement of Employment and Financial Interests submitted by each employee or special Government employee, or on the basis of information received from other sources, the Counselor shall determine, in the light of the duties which that employee or special Government employee is or will be performing, whether any conflicts of interest, real or apparent, are indicated. The Counselor shall make this determination based on the applicable statutes, the Executive order, and the applicable regulations of the Civil Service Commission, and of the agency.
(b) Where the Counselor's determination in a particular case is that a conflict of interest, real or apparent, is indicated, the Counselor shall initiate informal discussions with the employee or special Government employee concerned. These discussions shall have as their objectives:
(1) Providing the individual with a full opportunity to explain the conflict or appearance of conflict; and
(2) Arriving at an agreement (acceptable to the Counselor, the individual and the individual's immediate superior) whereby the conflict of interest may be removed or avoided. Such an agreement may include, but is not limited to: (i) Changes in assigned duties; (ii) divestiture of the financial or employment interest creating the conflict or apparent conflict; or (iii) disqualification for a particular assignment.
(c) Where an acceptable agreement cannot be obtained pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the Counselor shall present findings and recommendations to the officer designated by the agency head, who shall decide which remedy is most appropriate to remove or correct that conflict or apparent conflict. Remedial action under this paragraph may include disciplinary action, including separation for cause, or any of the actions enumerated in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and shall be effective in accordance with applicable laws, Executive orders, and regulations.
(d) Written summaries of all agreements and decisions arrived at pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall be placed in the Counselor's files. Copies shall also be made available to the employee or special Government employee concerned.
§ 1203.735-409
Confidentiality of employees' statements.
An agency shall hold each statement of employment and financial interests, and each supplementary statement, in confidence. To insure this confidentiality only the Counselor and Deputy Counselors are authorized to review and retain the statements. The Counselor and Deputy Counselors are responsible for maintaining the statements in confidence and shall not allow access to, or allow information to be disclosed from, a statement except to carry out the purpose of this part. An agency may not disclose information from a statement except as the Civil Service Commission or the agency head may determine for good cause shown.
§ 1203.735-410
Effect of employees' statements on other requirements.
The statements of employment and financial interests and supplementary statements required for employees are in addition to, and not in substitution for, or in derogation of, any similar requirement imposed by law, order, or regulation. The submission of a statement or supplementary statement by an employee does not permit the employee or any other person to participate in a matter in which the employee or the other person's participation is prohibited by law, order, or regulation. Save with respect to those financial interests excepted from the conflict of interest prohibitions of 18 U.S.C. 208(a) pursuant to a written advance determination under § 1203.735-217 or exempted by the provisions of § 1203.735-205(c), an employee must disqualify himself or herself from participating in any matter in which the employee has a financial interest.
§ 1203.735-411
Disqualification procedures.
(a) Where an employee is prohibited from participating in a matter because of a conflicting financial interest that is not exempt under § 1203.735-205(c) or has not been specifically excepted by the appropriate agency official pursuant to § 1203.735-217 in advance of the employee's participation in the particular matter, the employee shall conduct himself or herself in accordance with the following provisions:
(1) The employee shall promptly disclose the financial interest in such matter to the employee's immediate superior. The superior will thereupon relieve the employee of duty and responsibility in the matter.
(2) In foreign posts, it may be impossible or highly impracticable for an employee, who has a disqualifying financial interest, to assign the matter for official action to anyone other than a subordinate. In this event, the employee must instruct the subordinate to report fully and directly to the immediate superior to whom the employee himself or herself would normally report. The employee must concurrently direct such subordinate to take such action as may be appropriate in the matter, and without thereafter revealing to the disqualified employee in any way any aspect of the particular matter.
(b) Nothing herein precludes the employee from disposing of such disqualifying financial interest, thereby wholly eliminating the conflict of interest. In some circumstances, where the employee may not obtain an exception under § 1203.735-217, or may not disqualify himself or herself and refer or assign the matter to another employee, the performance of duty may even require divestiture.
(c) Where a supervisor has reason to believe that a subordinate employee may have a conflicting financial interest, the supervisor should discuss the matter with the employee. If the supervisor finds that a conflict of interest does exist, the supervisor must relieve the subordinate employee of duty and responsibility in the particular matter.
(d) The obligation to avoid conflicts of interest is upon each employee. It is a continuing obligation calling for alert vigilance.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part to the contrary, if an employee's holdings rise in value above the amount exempted by § 1203.735-205(c), then the statutory and regulation prohibitions apply in a conflict of interest situation.
PARTS 1204-1299 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. XIII (4-1-25 Edition)
Millennium Challenge Corporation

# CHAPTER XIII—MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
Part
Page
1300
Organization and functions of the Millennium Challenge Corporation
369
1304
Production or disclosure of information
369
1305
Release of official information and testimony by MCC personnel as witnesses
380
1306
Debt collection
383
1307-1399
[Reserved]
Pt. 1300

# PART 1300—ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
Sec.
1300.1
Purpose.
1300.2
Organization.
1300.3
Functions.
1300.4
Operations.
1300.5
Quorum and voting requirements.
1300.6
Office location.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.

# Source:
72 FR 49192, Aug. 28, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1300.1
Purpose.
This part describes the organization, functions and operation of the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC). MCC is a government corporation (as defined in 5 U.S.C. 103) established by the Millennium Challenge Act of 2003 (Pub. L. 108-199, 118 Stat. 211.) Information about MCC is available from its Web site,
http://www.mcc.gov.
§ 1300.2
Organization.
(a) MCC's Board consists of: (1) The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, the United States Trade Representative; and the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation; and (2) four other individuals with relevant international experience from the private sector; appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate.
(b) MCC's staff is comprised of the following administrative units:
(1) The Office of the Chief Executive Officer;
(2) The Department of Accountability;
(3) The Department of Administration and Finance;
(4) The Department of Congressional and Public Affairs;
(5) The Department of Operations;
(6) The Department of Policy and International Relations; and
(7) The Office of the General Counsel.
§ 1300.3
Functions.
(a) MCC provides United States assistance for global development; and
(b) Provides such assistance in a manner that promotes economic growth and the elimination of extreme poverty and strengthens good governance, economic freedom, and investments in people.
§ 1300.4
Operations.
In exercising its functions, duties, and responsibilities, MCC utilizes:
(a) MCC staff, consisting of specialized offices performing specialized, administrative, legal and financial work for the Board.
(b) Rules published in the
Federal Register
and codified in this title of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(c) Meetings of the Board of Directors conducted pursuant to the Government in the Sunshine Act or voting by notation as provided in section 1300.5(b).
§ 1300.5
Quorum and voting requirements.
(a)
Quorum requirements.
A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, which shall include at least one private sector member of the Board.
(b)
Voting.
The Board votes on items of business in meetings conducted pursuant to the Government in the Sunshine Act.
§ 1300.6
Office location.
The principal offices of the Millennium Challenge Corporation are located at 875 Fifteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005-2221.
Pt. 1304

# PART 1304—PRODUCTION OR DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Procedures for Requests for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
Sec.
1304.1
General provisions.
1304.2
Definitions.
1304.3
Proactive disclosure of MCC records.
1304.4
Requirements for making requests.
1304.5
Responsibility for acknowledgment and initial determinations.
1304.6
Timing of responses to requests.
1304.7
Responses to requests.
1304.8
Confidential commercial information.
1304.9
Administrative appeals.
1304.10
Preservation of records.
1304.11
Fees.
1304.12
Other rights and services.
Subpart B—[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.

# Source:
83 FR 35544, July 27, 2018, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Procedures for Requests for Disclosure of Records Under the Freedom of Information Act
§ 1304.1
General provisions.
This part contains the rules that the Millennium Challenge Corporation (“MCC”) follows in processing requests for records under the Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) (5 U.S.C. 552). The rules in this part should be read in conjunction with the text of the FOIA and the Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines published by the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB Fee Guidelines”). In addition, the MCC FOIA web page contains information about the specific procedures particular to MCC with respect to making FOIA requests. This resource is available at
www.mcc.gov/resources/foia
.
§ 1304.2
Definitions.
Administrative appeal.
An independent review of the initial determination made in response to a FOIA request.
Agency.
Any executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Federal Government or any independent regulatory agency.
Business day or work day.
A day of the week, excluding Saturday, Sunday, or legal public holidays.
Calendar days.
Every day within a month, including Saturday, Sunday, and legal public holidays. Unless identified as a “business day” or “work day,” all timeframes and days noted in this part shall be calculated in calendar days.
Chief FOIA Officer.
A designated MCC employee who is a senior official, at the Assistant Secretary or equivalent level who, subject to the authority of the head of the agency, shall have agency wide responsibility for efficient and appropriate compliance with the FOIA. In addition, the Chief FOIA Officer shall monitor implementation of the FOIA throughout MCC and keep the head of the agency, the chief legal officer of the agency, and the Attorney General appropriately informed of the agency's performance in implementing the FOIA; recommend to the head of the agency such adjustments to MCC's practices, policies, personnel, and funding as may be necessary to improve its implementation of the FOIA; facilitate public understanding of the purposes of the statutory exemptions of the FOIA; offer training to MCC staff regarding their responsibilities under the FOIA, serve as the primary agency liaison with the Office of Government Information Services and the Office of Information policy; and designate one (1) or more FOIA Public Liaisons. The Chief FOIA Officer shall review, not less frequently than annually, all aspects of the administration of the FOIA by MCC to ensure compliance with the requirements of the FOIA, including—agency regulations; disclosure of records; assessment of fees and determination of eligibility for fee waivers; timely processing of requests for information; the use of exemptions; and dispute resolution services with the assistance of the Office of Government Information Services or the FOIA Public Liaison.
Commercial requester.
Any person making a request for information for a use or purpose that furthers a commercial, trade, or profit interest, which can include furthering those interests through litigation.
Complex request.
A FOIA request that MCC anticipates will involve a voluminous amount of material to review or will be time-consuming to process.
Confidential commercial information.
Records provided to the government that contain material exempt from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA and disclosure of such records could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm.
Consultation.
When MCC locates a record that contains information of interest to another agency, MCC shall ask the interested agency for their views on disclosing the records before any final determination is made.
Direct costs.
Expenditures actually incurred by MCC for searching, duplicating, and in the case of commercial
use requests, reviewing records in order to respond to a FOIA request.
Discretionary disclosure.
The release of or portions of records to a FOIA requester that could be withheld by MCC under one or more of the FOIA exemptions.
Duplication.
The process of making a copy of a record in order to respond to a FOIA request, including but not limited to paper copies, microfilm, audio-video materials, and computer diskettes or other electronic copies.
Duplication fees.
The estimated direct costs of making a copy of a record in order to respond to a FOIA request.
Educational institution.
Any school or institution that operates a program of scholarly research. A requester in this category must show that the request is made in connection with his or her role at the educational institution.
Educational requester.
A student who makes a request in furtherance of their coursework or other school-sponsored activities and provides a copy of a course syllabus or other reasonable documentation to indicate the research purpose for the request, would qualify as part of this fee category.
Exemptions.
Certain categories of information that are not required to be released in response to a FOIA request because release would be harmful to governmental or private interests.
Fee waiver.
The waiver or reduction of processing fees if a requester can demonstrate that certain statutory standards are satisfied including that the information is in the public interest and is not requested for a commercial interest.
FOIA Appeals Officer.
The MCC employee who is responsible for conducting an independent review of the initial determination of the FOIA request after the requester has requested an administrative appeal.
FOIA Public Liaison.
The MCC employee who is responsible for assisting in the resolution of disputes in response to FOIA requests.
FOIA Program Officer.
The MCC employee who receives and processes requests within the MCC FOIA Office.
Non-commercial scientific institution.
An institution that does not operate on a commercial basis, but operates solely for the purpose of conducting scientific research and the results of the scientific research are not intended to promote any particular product or industry.
Record.
Any item, collection, or grouping of information maintained by MCC in any form or format, including an electronic copy. A “record” can potentially constitute an entire document, a single page of a multipage document, an individual paragraph of a document, or an email within an email chain.
Referral.
When an agency locates a record that originated with, or is of otherwise primary interest to another agency, it will forward that record to the other agency to process the record and to provide the final determination directly to the requester.
Representative of the news media.
Any person or entity that gathers information of potential interest to a segment of the public, uses its editorial skills to turn the raw materials into a distinct work, and distributes that work to an audience. The term “news” means information that is about current events or that would be of current interest to the public. Examples of news media entities include television or radio stations that broadcast “news” to the public at large and publishers of periodicals that disseminate “news” and make their products available through a variety of means to the general public, including news organizations that disseminate solely on the internet. A request for records supporting the news-dissemination function of the requester will not be considered to be for a commercial use. “Freelance” journalists who demonstrate a solid basis for expecting publication through a news media entity will be considered as a representative of the news media. A publishing contract would provide the clearest evidence that publication is expected; however, agencies can also consider a requester's past publication record in making this determination.
Review.
The process of examining a record to determine whether all or part of the record may be released or withheld, and includes redacting or otherwise processing the record for disclosure to a requester. The review process does not include time spent resolving
legal or policy issues regarding the application of exemptions to a record. The review process also does not include time spent reviewing records at the administrative appeal level unless, MCC determines that the exemption under which it withheld records does not apply and the records are reviewed again to determine whether a different exemption may apply.
Requester category.
One of the three categories that agencies place requesters in for the purpose of determining whether a requester will be charged fees for search, review and duplication, including commercial requesters; non-commercial scientific or educational institutions or news media requesters, and all other requesters.
Search.
The time spent locating records that may be responsive to a request, manually or by electronic means, including page-by-page or line-by-line identification of responsive material within a record.
Search fees.
Estimated direct costs of the time spent locating records by either manual or electronic means.
Submitter.
Any person or entity who provides information directly or indirectly to MCC. The term includes, but is not limited to, corporations, state governments, and foreign governments.
§ 1304.3
Proactive disclosure of MCC records.
Records that are required by the FOIA to be made available for public inspection in an electronic format may be accessed through the MCC website. MCC is responsible for determining which of its records are required to be made publicly available, identifying additional records in the interest of the public that are appropriate for public disclosure, and posting such records. MCC shall ensure that its website of posted records is reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis. The FOIA Program Officer may assist individuals in locating records on the MCC website and FOIA reading room.
§ 1304.4
Requirements for making requests.
(a) Requests for access to, or copies of, MCC records other than those identified in § 1304.3, shall be in writing and addressed to the MCC Chief FOIA Officer at 1099 14th St. NW, Washington, DC 20005 or
FOIA@mcc.gov
. All requests for records shall be deemed to have been made pursuant to the FOIA, regardless of whether the request specifically mentions the Freedom of Information Act. To facilitate processing, the requester should place the phrase “FOIA REQUEST” in capital letters on the front of the envelope or subject line of the email.
(b) Each request shall include the following:
(1) A description of the record(s) that provides sufficient detail to enable MCC to locate the record(s) with a reasonable amount of effort; such as the date, title or name, author, recipient, subject matter of the record, case number, file designation, or reference number. Before submitting their requests, requesters may contact the MCC FOIA Program Officer to discuss the records the are seeking and receive assistance in describing the records;
(2) The preferred format of the records;
(3) The requestor's full name, mailing address or email address, and telephone number where the requester can be reached during business hours; and
(4) If applicable, the maximum amount the requester is willing to pay or dollar limit on the fees MCC may incur to respond to the request for records. When this information is specified, MCC shall not exceed such limit.
(c) If a request does not meet all of the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the FOIA Program Officer may advise the requester that additional information is needed. Requesters who are attempting to reformulate or modify a request may engage with the MCC Program Officer to clarify their request.
§ 1304.5
Responsibility for acknowledgment and initial determinations.
(a) Upon receipt of a request for records, the FOIA Program Officer will acknowledge receipt of the request in writing within ten (10) business days. In responding to a request for records, MCC shall make reasonable efforts to search for the records in electronic format, except when such efforts would
significantly interfere with the operation of the agency's automated information system.
(b) The Chief FOIA Officer shall make an initial determination, within twenty (20) business days, to either grant or deny, in whole or in part, a request for records. If the Chief FOIA Officer shall notify the requester making such a request of the following information:
(1) The determination whether grant or deny the request and reasons for the determination;
(2) The right of the requester to seek assistance from the FOIA Public Liaison; and in the case of an adverse determination;
(3) The right of the requester to seek dispute resolution services via the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration (OGIS); and
(4) The right to file an administrative appeal to the FOIA Appeals Officer within 90 calendar days after the date of the adverse determination.
§ 1304.6
Timing of responses to requests.
(a)
General information.
The twenty (20) business day period identified in § 1304.5(b) shall commence on the date that the request is first received by the MCC FOIA office and an acknowledgment of the request shall be sent no later than ten (10) business days after receipt of the request. The twenty (20) business day period shall not be tolled except that MCC may make one request to the requester for information and toll the twenty (20) business day period while it is awaiting receipt of the information, or the twenty (20) business day period may be tolled if it is necessary to clarify issues regarding fees with the requester.
(b)
Unusual circumstances.
If MCC cannot meet the statutory time limit for processing a request because of “unusual circumstances” as defined in the FOIA and MCC extends the time limit on that basis, MCC will, before expiration of the twenty (20) business day period, notify the requester in writing of the unusual circumstances involved and of the date by which MCC estimates processing of the request will be completed. Where the extension exceeds ten (10) business days, MCC will provide the requester with an opportunity to modify the request or arrange an alternative time period for processing the original or modified request. MCC must make its designated FOIA Program Officer or FOIA Public Liaison available for this purpose. To aid the requester, the MCC FOIA Public Liaison shall assist in the resolution of any disputes between the requester and MCC, and notify the requester of the right to seek dispute resolution services from the Office of Government Information Services.
(c)
Aggregating requests.
MCC may aggregate requests where it reasonably appears that multiple requests, submitted either by a requester or by a group of requesters acting in concert, constitute a single request that would otherwise involve unusual circumstances. Requests that involve unrelated matters shall not be aggregated.
(d)
Multitrack processing.
MCC may use multitrack processing in responding to requests. This process entails separating simple requests that require rather limited review from more lengthy and complex requests. Requests in each track are then processed in their respective track. The FOIA Program Officer may provide requesters in the slower track an opportunity to limit the scope of their requests in order to decrease the processing time required. The FOIA Program Officer may provide the opportunity to limit the scope of the request by contacting the requester by letter, email, or telephone.
(e)
Expedited processing of requests.
The FOIA Program Officer must determine whether to grant a request for expedited processing within ten (10) calendar days of its receipt. Requests will receive expedited processing if one of the following criteria are met:
(1) The requester can establish that failure to receive the records quickly could reasonably be expected to pose an imminent threat to the life or physical safety of an individual;
(2) The requester is primarily engaged in disseminating information and can demonstrate that an urgency to inform the public concerning actual
or alleged Federal Government activity exists; or
(3) As determined by the Chief FOIA Officer.
(f)
Written expedited requests.
A requester who seeks expedited processing must submit a written statement explaining in detail the basis for making the request for expedited processing. This statement must be certified to be true and correct. The MCC Chief FOIA Officer may waive the formal certification requirement.
§ 1304.7
Responses to requests.
(a)
General information.
MCC, to the extent practicable, will communicate with requesters who have access to the internet via email or web portal.
(b)
Acknowledgment of requests.
MCC shall acknowledge the request in writing and assign a tracking number for processing purposes.
(c)
Estimated dates of completion and interim responses.
Upon request, MCC shall provide an estimated response date. If a request involves a voluminous amount of material or searches in multiple locations, MCC shall provide interim responses by releasing the records on a rolling basis.
(d)
Granting requests.
MCC will notify the requestor in writing if it determines that it will grant a request in full or in part. MCC shall inform the requester of any fees charged and shall disclose the requested records to the requester promptly upon payment of any applicable fees.
(e)
Partial grant of requests.
MCC shall consider whether partial disclosure of information is possible whenever the agency determines that a full disclosure of a requested record is not possible. MCC shall take reasonable steps necessary to segregate and release nonexempt information.
(f)
Denial or adverse determination of requests.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, MCC shall withhold information only if—
(1) It reasonably foresees that disclosure would harm an interest protected by an exemption under the FOIA or disclosure is prohibited by law;
(2) The request does not reasonably describe the records sought;
(3) The information sought is not a record subject to the FOIA;
(4) The information sought does not exist, cannot be located, or has been destroyed; or
(5) The records are not in the readily producible form or format sought by the requester.
(g)
Markings on released documents.
Records disclosed in part shall be marked clearly to show the amount of information deleted and the exemption under which the deletion was made unless doing so would harm an interest protected by an applicable exemption.
§ 1304.8
Confidential commercial information.
(a)
Designation of confidential commercial information.
A submitter of confidential commercial information must use good faith efforts to designate by appropriate markings, either at the time of the submission or within a reasonable time thereafter, any portion of its submission that it considers to be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA. These designations shall expire ten (10) years after the date of submission unless the submitter requests and provides justification for a longer designation period.
(b)
Required notice.
Written notice shall be provided to a submitter of confidential commercial information whenever records containing such information are requested under the FOIA if, after reviewing the request, the responsive records, and any appeal by the requester, it is determined that MCC may be required to disclose the records, provided:
(1) The requested information has been designated in good faith by the submitter as information considered protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA; or
(2) MCC has reason to believe that the requested information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA, but has not yet determined whether the information is protected from disclosure under that exemption or any other applicable exemption.
(c)
Information.
The notices shall either describe the commercial information requested or include a copy of the requested records or portions of records
containing information. In cases involving a voluminous number of submitters, notice may be made by posting or publishing the notice in a place or manner reasonably likely to accomplish it.
(d)
Exceptions to notice requirements.
The notices requirements of this section shall not apply if:
(1) The Chief FOIA Officer determines that the information is exempt under the FOIA;
(2) The information has been lawfully published or has officially been made available to the public;
(3) Disclosure of the information is required by a statute other than the FOIA or by a regulation issued in accordance with the requirements of Executive Order 12600 of June 23, 1987; or
(4) The designation made by the submitter under paragraph (b) of this section appears obviously frivolous, except that, in such a case, the component shall give the submitter written notice of any final decision to disclose the information and must provide that notice within a reasonable number of days prior to the disclosure date.
(e)
Opportunity to object to disclosure.
A submitter may provide the Chief FOIA Officer with a detailed written statement of any objection to disclosure within ten (10) days of notification. The statement shall specify all grounds for withholding any of the information under any exemption of the FOIA, and if Exemption 4 applies, shall demonstrate the reasons the submitter believes the information to be confidential commercial information that is exempt from disclosure. Whenever possible, the submitter's claim of confidentiality shall be supported by a statement or certification by an officer or authorized representative of the submitter. In the event a submitter fails to respond to the notice in the time specified, the submitter will be considered to have no objection to the disclosure of the information. Information provided by the submitter that is received after the disclosure decision has been made will not be considered. Information provided by a submitter pursuant to this paragraph may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA.
(f)
Notice of intent to disclose.
The Chief FOIA Officer shall consider a submitter's objections and specific grounds for nondisclosure prior to determining whether to disclose the information requested. Whenever the Chief FOIA Officer determines that disclosure is appropriate, the Chief FOIA Officer shall, within a reasonable number of days prior to disclosure, provide the submitter with written notice of the intent to disclose which shall include a statement of the reasons for which the submitter's objections were overruled, a description of the information to be disclosed, and a specific disclosure date. The Chief FOIA Officer shall also notify the requester that the requested records will be made available.
(g)
Notice of lawsuit.
If the requester files a lawsuit seeking to compel disclosure of confidential commercial information, MCC shall promptly notify the submitter of this action. If a submitter files a lawsuit seeking to prevent disclosure of confidential commercial information, MCC shall promptly notify the requester.
§ 1304.9
Administrative appeals.
(a)
Requirements for appealing an adverse determination.
A requester may appeal any adverse determination to MCC. The requester must submit a written notice of appeal and it must be postmarked or, in the case of electronic submissions, transmitted within ninety (90) calendar days after the date of the response. The appeal should clearly identify the determination that is being appealed and the assigned tracking number. To facilitate handling, the requester should mark both the appeal letter and envelope, or subject line of the electronic transmission, “Freedom of Information Act Appeal.”
(b)
Appeals address.
Requesters can submit appeals by mail by addressing it to Millennium Challenge Corporation, Attn.: FOIA Appeals Officer, 1099 14th St. NW, Washington, DC 20005 or online at
FOIA@mcc.gov
.
(c)
Adjudication of appeals.
The MCC FOIA Appeals Officer will adjudicate the appeal within twenty (20) business days after the receipt of such appeal. An appeal ordinarily will not be adjudicated if the request becomes a matter of the subject of litigation. On receipt of any appeal involving classified
information, the MCC FOIA Appeals Officer must take appropriate action to ensure compliance with applicable classification rules.
(d)
Final agency determinations.
The FOIA Appeals Officer shall issue a final written determination, stating the basis for the decision, within twenty (20) business days after receipt of a notice of appeal. Any decision that upholds MCC's determination in whole or in part must contain a statement that identifies the reason(s) for the decision, including any FOIA exemptions applied. The decision will provide the requester with notification of the statutory right to file a lawsuit and will inform the requester of the dispute resolution services offered by the OGIS of the National Archives and Records Administration as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation. If the Chief FOIA Officer's decision is remanded or modified on appeal, the FOIA Appeals Officer will notify the requester of the determination in writing. MCC will then further process the request in accordance with the appeal determination and will respond directly to the requester.
(e)
Engaging in dispute resolution services provided by OGIS.
Dispute resolution is a voluntary process. If MCC agrees to participate in the dispute resolution services provided by OGIS, MCC will actively engage as a partner to the process in an attempt to resolve the dispute.
(f)
When an appeal is required.
Before seeking review by a court of MCC's adverse determination, a requester generally must first submit a timely administrative appeal.
§ 1304.10
Preservation of records.
MCC shall preserve all correspondence pertaining to the requests that it receives under this part, as well as copies of all requested records, until disposition or destruction is authorized pursuant to Title 44 of the United States Code or the General Records Schedule 4.2 of the National Archives and Records Administration. MCC shall not dispose of or destroy records while they are the subject of a pending request, appeal, or lawsuit under the FOIA.
§ 1304.11
Fees.
(a)
General information.
(1) MCC's fee provisions are governed by the FOIA and by the Office of Management and Budget's Uniform FOIA Fee Schedule and Guidelines. For purposes of assessing fees, the FOIA establishes the following categories of requesters:
(i) Commercial use;
(ii) Non-commercial scientific or educational institutions;
(iii) Representative of the news media; and
(iv) All other requesters.
(2) Fees will be assessed pursuant to the category of requester and detailed in paragraph (b) of this section. Requesters may seek a fee waiver. To resolve any fee issues that arise under this section, MCC may contact a requester for additional information. MCC will ensure that searches, review, and duplication are conducted in the most efficient and the least expensive manner. MCC ordinarily will collect all applicable fees before sending copies of records to a requester. Requesters must pay fees to the Treasury of the United States. All fee information is available at
www.mcc.gov/resources/foia
.
(b)
Charging fees.
Because the fee amounts provided already account for the direct costs associated with the given fee type, MCC will not add any additional costs to charges calculated under this section. In responding to FOIA requests, MCC shall charge fees for the following unless a waiver or reduction of fees has been granted:
(1)
Search time fees.
Search time includes page-by-page or line-by-line identification of information within records and the reasonable efforts expended to locate and retrieve information from electronic records.
(i) Requests made by education institutions, non-commercial scientific institutions, or representatives of the news media are not subject to search time fees. Search time fees shall be charged for all other requesters, subject to the restrictions identified in this section. MCC may properly charge for time spent searching even if no responsive records are located if it is determined that the records are entirely exempt from disclosure.
(ii) Requesters shall be charged the direct costs associated with conducting
any searches that require the creation of a new computer program to locate the requested records. Requesters shall be notified of the costs associated with creating such a program and must agree to pay the associated costs before the costs may be incurred.
(iii) For requests that require the retrieval of records stored by an agency at the Federal Records Centers operated by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA), additional costs shall be charged in accordance with the Transactional Billing Range Schedule established by NARA.
(2)
Duplication fees.
Duplication fees shall be charged to all requesters, subject to the restrictions in this section. MCC shall honor a requester's preference for receiving a record in a particular form or format where it is readily reproducible by MCC in the form or format requested. Where photocopies are supplied, MCC shall provide one copy per request and charge fees calculated per page. For copies of records produced on tapes, disks, or other media, MCC shall charge the direct costs of producing the copy, including operator time. Where paper documents must be scanned in order to comply with a requester's preference to receive the records in an electronic format, the requester shall be charged direct costs associated with scanning those materials. For other forms of duplication, MCC shall charge the direct costs.
(3)
Review.
Review fees shall be charged to requesters who make commercial use requests. Review fees shall be assessed in connection with the initial review of the record. No charge will be made for review at the administrative appeal state of exemptions applied at the initial review stage. If a particular exemption is deemed to no longer apply, any costs associated with MCC's subsequent review following the administrative appeal of the records in order to consider the use of other exemptions may be assessed as review fees.
(c)
Restrictions on charging fees.
The following restrictions shall apply to MCC FOIA requests:
(1) If MCC fails to comply with the FOIA's time limits to respond to a request, MCC may not charge fees, except as described in paragraphs (c)(3) through (5) of this section;
(2) If MCC has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply and the agency provided timely written notice to the requester in accordance with the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limit shall be excused for an additional ten (10) calendar days;
(3) If MCC has determined that unusual circumstances as defined by the FOIA apply, and more than five-thousand (5,000) pages are necessary to respond to the request, MCC may charge search time fees or duplication fees where applicable, if MCC has provided timely written notice of the unusual circumstances to the requester in accordance with the FOIA and has discussed with the requester via written mail, email, or telephone (or made a minimum of three (3) good-faith attempts to do so) how the requester could effectively limit the scope of the request;
(4) If a court has determined that exceptional circumstances exist as defined by the FOIA, a failure to comply with the time limits shall be excused for the length of time provided by the court order; and
(5) No search time or review fees will be charged for a quarter-hour period unless more than half of that period is required for search or review.
(d)
Fee exceptions.
Except for requesters seeking records for commercial use, MCC shall provide without charge:
(1) The first one-hundred (100) pages of duplication (or the cost equivalent for other media); and
(2) The first two (2) hours of search time. When, after deducting the first one-hundred (100) free pages (or its cost equivalent) and the first two (2) hours of search time, a total fee calculated under this section is $25.00 or less for any request, no fee will be charged.
(e)
Notice of anticipated fees in excess of $25.00.
(1) When MCC determines that the fees to be assessed will exceed $25.00, the requester shall be notified of the actual or estimated amount of the fees, including the breakdown of the fees for search time, review or duplication, unless the requester has indicated a willingness to pay fees as high as those anticipated. If only a portion of
the fee can be estimated readily, MCC shall advise the requester accordingly. If the requester is not a commercial use requester, the notice shall specify that the requester is entitled to the statutory requirements of one-hundred (100) pages of duplication at no charge and, if the requester is charged search time fees, two (2) hours of search time at no charge, and shall advise the requester whether those entitlements have been provided.
(2) In cases in which a requester has been notified that the actual or estimated fees are in excess of $25.00, the request shall not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the requester commits, in writing, to pay the actual or estimated total fee, or designates some amount of fees the requester is willing to pay, or in the case of a requester who is not a commercial use requester who has not yet been provided with the requester's statutory entitlements, designates that the requester seeks only that which can be provided by the statutory entitlements. The requester must provide the commitment or designation in writing, and must, when applicable designate an exact dollar amount the requester is willing to pay. MCC is not required to accept payments in installments.
(3) If the requester has indicated a willingness to pay some designated amount of fees, and MCC estimates that the total fee will exceed that amount, MCC shall toll the processing of the request when it notifies the requester of the estimated fees in excess of the amount the requester has indicated a willingness to pay. MCC shall inquire whether the requester wishes to revise the amount of fees the requester is willing to pay or modify the request. Once the requester responds, the time to respond will resume from where it was at the date of the notification.
(4) The FOIA Program Officer will assist any requester in reformulating a request to meet the requester's needs at a lower cost.
(f)
Waiver or reduction of fees.
Documents shall be furnished without charge or at a charge below that listed in this section based upon information provided by a requester or otherwise made known to the Chief FOIA Officer that disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest. Disclosure is in the public interest if it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of government operations and is not primarily for commercial purposes. Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees shall be considered on a case by case basis. Where only some of the records to be released satisfy the requirements for waiver of fees, a waiver shall be granted to those records. In order to determine whether the fee waiver requirement is met, the Chief FOIA Officer shall consider the following factors:
(1) The subject of the request. Whether the subject of the requested records concerns the operations or activities of the government;
(2) The informative value of the information to be disclosed; and
(3) The significance of the contribution to public understanding.
(g)
Fees pending a waiver request.
Requests for a waiver or reduction of fees should be made when the request is first submitted to the agency and should address the criteria referenced in this section. A requester may submit a fee waiver request at a later time so long as the underlying record request is pending or on administrative appeal. When a requester who has committed to pay fees subsequently asks for a waiver of those fees and that waiver is denied, the requester must pay any costs incurred up to the date the fee waiver request was received.
(h)
Types of requesters.
There are four categories of FOIA requesters: Commercial use requesters, educational and non-commercial scientific institutional requesters; representatives of the news media; and all other requesters. The following specific levels of fees are prescribed for each of these categories:
(1) Commercial requesters shall be charged the full direct costs of searching for, reviewing, and duplicating requested records;
(2) Educational and non-commercial scientific institution requesters shall be charged for document duplication only and the first one-hundred (100) pages of paper copies shall be provided without charge;
(3) Representative of the news media requesters shall be charged for document duplication costs only, except that the first one-hundred (100) pages of paper copies shall be provided without charge; and
(4) All other requesters who do not fall into any of the categories in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section shall be charged fees which recover the full reasonable direct costs incurred for searching for and reproducing records if that total costs exceeds $25.00, except that the first one-hundred (100) pages of duplication and the first two hours of manual search time shall not be charged.
(i)
Charges for unsuccessful searches.
If the requester has been notified of the estimated cost of the search time and has been advised specifically that the requested records may not exist or may be withheld as exempt, fees may be charged.
(j)
Charges for other services.
Although MCC is not required to provide special services, if it chooses to do so as a matter of administrative discretion, the direct costs of providing the service shall be charged. Examples of such services include certifying that records are true copies, providing multiple copies of the same document, or sending records by means other than first class mail.
(k)
Charging interest.
MCC may charge interest on any unpaid bill starting on the 31st day following the date of billing the requester. Interest charges shall be assessed at the rate provided in 31 U.S.C. 3717 and will accrue from the billing date until payment is received. MCC shall follow the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982, as amended, and its administrative procedures, including the use consumer reporting agencies, collection agencies, and offset.
(l)
Aggregating requests.
The requester or a group of requesters may not submit multiple requests at the same time, each seeking portions of a document or documents solely in order to avoid payment of fees. When the FOIA Program Officer reasonably believes that a requester is attempting to divide a request into a series of requests to evade an assessment of fees, the FOIA Program Officer may aggregate such requests and charge accordingly. MCC may presume that multiple requests of this type made within a thirty (30) calendar day period have been made in order to avoid fees. For requests separated by a longer period, MCC will aggregate them only where there is a reasonable basis for determining that aggregation is warranted in view of all the circumstances involved. Multiple requests involving unrelated matters cannot be aggregated.
(m)
Advance payment of fees.
(1) MCC may require an advanced payment of fees if the requestor previously failed to pay fees or if the FOIA Program Officer determines the total fee will exceed $250.00. When payment is required in advance of the processing of a request, the time limits prescribed in § 1304.5 shall not be deemed to begin until the requester has paid the assessed fees.
(2) In cases in which MCC requires advance payment, the request will not be considered received and further work will not be completed until the required payment is received. If the requester does not pay the advance payment within thirty (30) calendar days after the date of the fee determination, the request will be closed. Where it is anticipated that the cost of providing the requested record will exceed $25.00 but falls below $250.00 after the free duplication and search time has been calculated, MCC may, in its discretion may require either an advance deposit of the entire estimated charges or written confirmation of the requester's willingness to pay such charges.
(3) Where the requester has previously failed to pay a properly charged FOIA fee within thirty (30) calendar days of the billing date, MCC may require the requester to pay the full amount due plus any applicable interest on that prior request, and/or require that the requester make an advance payment of the full amount of the anticipated fee before MCC begins a new request or continues to process a pending request or any pending appeal. If MCC has a reasonable basis to believe that a requester has misrepresented the requester's identity in order to avoid paying outstanding fees, MCC may require that the requester provide proof of identity.
§ 1304.12
Other rights and services.
Nothing in this part shall be construed to entitle any person a right to any service or to the disclosure of any record to which such person is not entitled under the FOIA.
Subpart B—[Reserved]
Pt. 1305

# PART 1305—RELEASE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION AND TESTIMONY BY MCC PERSONNEL AS WITNESSES
Sec.
1305.1
Purpose and scope.
1305.2
Definitions.
1305.3
Production prohibited unless approved.
1305.4
Factors to be considered by the General Counsel.
1305.5
Service of demands.
1305.6
Processing demands.
1305.7
Final determination.
1305.8
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
1305.9
Restrictions that apply to released documents.
1305.10
Procedure when a decision is not made prior to the time a response is required.
1305.11
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
1305.12
No private right of action.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
79 FR 44278, July 31, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1305.1
Purpose and scope.
Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 301, the head of an executive department or military department may prescribe regulations for the government of his/her department, the conduct of its employees, the distribution and performance of its business, and the custody, use, and preservation of its records, papers, and property. Section 301 does not authorize withholding information from the public or limiting the availability of records to the public. This part contains the regulations of the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) concerning procedures to be followed when a request, subpoena, order or other demand (hereinafter in this part referred to as a “demand”) of a court or other authorities in any state or federal proceeding is issued for the production or disclosure of:
(a) Any material contained in the files of MCC;
(b) Any information relating to materials contained in the files of MCC; or
(c) Any information or material acquired by an employee of MCC during the performance of the employee's official duties or because of the employee's official status.
§ 1305.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Demand
means a request, order, or subpoena for testimony or documents related to or for possible use in a legal proceeding.
(b)
Document
means any record or other property, no matter what media and including copies thereof, held by MCC, including without limitation, official letters, telegrams, memoranda, reports, studies, calendar and diary entries, maps, graphs, pamphlets, notes, charts, tabulations, analyses, statistical or informational accumulations, any kind of summaries of meetings and conversations, film impressions, magnetic tapes and sound or mechanical reproductions.
(c)
Employee
means all employees and officers of MCC, including contractors who have been appointed by, or are subject to the supervision, jurisdiction or control of MCC. The procedures established within this part also apply to former employees and contractors of MCC.
(d)
General Counsel
means the General Counsel or MCC employee to whom the General Counsel has delegated authority to act under this subpart.
§ 1305.3
Production prohibited unless approved.
No employee or former employee shall, in response to a demand of a court or other authority, disclose any information relating to materials contained in the files of MCC, or disclose any information or produce any material acquired as part of the performance of the person's official duties, or because of the person's official status, without the prior, written approval of the General Counsel.
§ 1305.4
Factors to be considered by the General Counsel.
(a) In deciding whether to authorize the release of official information or the testimony of employees concerning official information, the General Counsel shall consider the following factors:
(1) Whether the demand is unduly burdensome;
(2) MCC's ability to maintain impartiality in conducting its business;
(3) Whether the time and money of the United States would be used for private purposes;
(4) The extent to which the time of employees for conducting official business would be compromised;
(5) Whether the public might misconstrue variances between personal opinions of employees and MCC policy;
(6) Whether the demand demonstrates that the information requested is relevant and material to the action pending, genuinely necessary to the proceeding, unavailable from other sources, and reasonable in its scope;
(7) Whether the number of similar demands would have a cumulative effect on the expenditure of agency resources;
(8) Whether disclosure otherwise would be inappropriate under the circumstances; and
(9) Any other factor that is appropriate.
(b) Among those demands in response to which compliance will not ordinarily be authorized are those with respect to which any of the following factors exists:
(1) The disclosure would violate a statute, Executive order, or regulation;
(2) The integrity of the administrative and deliberative processes of MCC would be compromised;
(3) The disclosure would not be appropriate under the rules of procedure governing the case or matter in which the demand arose;
(4) The disclosure, including release in camera, is not appropriate or necessary under the relevant substantive law concerning privilege;
(5) The disclosure, except when in camera and necessary to assert a claim of privilege, would reveal information properly classified or other matters exempt from unrestricted disclosure; or
(6) The disclosure would interfere with ongoing enforcement proceedings, compromise constitutional rights, reveal the identity of an intelligence source or confidential informant, or disclose trade secrets or similarly confidential commercial or financial information.
§ 1305.5
Service of demands.
Demands for official documents, information or testimony must be in writing, and served on the General Counsel, Millennium Challenge Corporation, 875 Fifteenth Street NW., Washington, DC 20005-2221.
§ 1305.6
Processing demands.
(a) After service of a demand to produce or disclose official documents and information, the General Counsel will review the demand and, in accordance with the provisions of this subpart, determine whether, or under what conditions, to authorize the employee to testify on matters relating to official information and/or produce official documents.
(b) If information or material is sought by a demand in any case or matter in which MCC is not a party, an affidavit or, if that is not feasible, a statement by the party seeking the information or material, or by his/her attorney setting forth a summary of the information or material sought and its relevance to the proceeding, must be submitted before a decision is made as to whether materials will be produced or permission to testify or otherwise provide information will be granted. Any authorization for testimony by a present or former employee of MCC shall be limited to the scope of the demand.
(c) When necessary, the General Counsel will coordinate with the Department of Justice to file appropriate motions, including motions to remove the matter to Federal court, to quash, or to obtain a protective order.
(d) If a demand fails to follow the requirements of these regulations, MCC will not allow the testimony or produce the documents.
(e) MCC will process demands in the order in which they are received. Absent unusual circumstances, MCC will respond within 45 days of the date that the demand was received. The time for
response will depend upon the scope of the demand.
(f) The General Counsel may grant a waiver of any procedure described by this subpart where a waiver is considered necessary to promote a significant interest of MCC or the United States or for other good cause.
§ 1305.7
Final determination.
The General Counsel makes the final determination on demands to employees for production of official documents and information or testimony. All final determinations are within the sole discretion of the General Counsel. The General Counsel will notify the requester and the Court or other authority of the final determination, the reasons for the grant or denial of the demand, and any conditions that the General Counsel may impose on the release of documents, or on the testimony of an employee. When in doubt about the propriety of granting or denying a demand for testimony or documents, the General Counsel should consult with the Department of Justice.
§ 1305.8
Restrictions that apply to testimony.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the testimony of MCC employees including, for example, limiting the areas of testimony or requiring the requester and other parties to the legal proceeding to agree that the transcript of the testimony will be kept under seal or will only be used or made available in the particular legal proceeding for which testimony was requested. The General Counsel may also require a copy of the transcript of testimony at the requester's expense.
(b) MCC may offer the employee's declaration in lieu of testimony, in whatever form the court finds acceptable.
(c) If authorized to testify pursuant to this part, an employee may testify to relevant unclassified materials or information within his or her personal knowledge, but, unless specifically authorized to do so by the General Counsel, the employee shall not:
(1) Disclose confidential or privileged information; or
(2) For a current MCC employee, testify as an expert or opinion witness with regard to any matter arising out of the employee's official duties or the functions of MCC, unless testimony is being given on behalf of the United States.
§ 1305.9
Restrictions that apply to released documents.
(a) The General Counsel may impose conditions or restrictions on the release of official documents and information, including the requirement that parties to the proceeding obtain a protective order or execute a confidentiality agreement to limit access and any further disclosure. The terms of the protective order or of the confidentiality agreement must be acceptable to the General Counsel. In cases where protective orders or confidentiality agreements have already been executed, MCC may condition the release of official documents and information on an amendment to the existing protective order or confidentiality agreement.
(b) If the General Counsel so determines, original MCC documents may be presented in response to a demand, but they are not to be presented as evidence or otherwise used in a manner by which they could lose their identity as official MCC documents nor are they to be marked or altered. In lieu of original records, certified copies will be presented for evidentiary purposes. (See 28 U.S.C. 1733).
§ 1305.10
Procedure when a decision is not made prior to the time a response is required.
If a response to a demand is required before the General Counsel can make the determination referred to above, the General Counsel, when necessary, will provide the court or other competent authority with a copy of this part, inform the court or other competent authority that the demand is being reviewed, and respectfully seek a stay of the demand pending a final determination.
§ 1305.11
Procedure in the event of an adverse ruling.
If the court or other competent authority declines to stay the demand in
response to a request made in accordance with § 1305.10, or if the court or other competent authority rules that the demand must be complied with irrespective of the instructions from the General Counsel not to produce the material or disclose the information sought, the employee or former employee upon whom the demand has been made shall respectfully decline to comply with the demand (
United States ex rel. Touhy
v.
Ragen,
340 U.S. 462 (1951)).
§ 1305.12
No private right of action.
This part is intended only to provide guidance for the internal operations of MCC, and is not intended to, and does not, and may not be relied upon, to create a right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law by a party against the United States.
Pt. 1306

# PART 1306—DEBT COLLECTION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1306.1
Purpose.
1306.2
Scope.
1306.3
Definitions.
1306.4
Other procedures or actions.
1306.5
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
1306.6
Collection in installments.
1306.7
Designation.
1306.8
Application.

# Subpart B—Administrative Wage Garnishment
1306.9
Administrative wage garnishment.

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
1306.10
Scope.
1306.11
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
1306.12
Notice requirements before offset.
1306.13
Employee response.
1306.14
Request for a hearing for certain debts.
1306.15
Hearings.
1306.16
Procedures for salary offset.
1306.17
Non-waiver of rights by payment.
1306.18
Waiver of indebtedness.
1306.19
Compromise.
1306.20
Suspension.
1306.21
Termination.
1306.22
Discharge.
1306.23
Bankruptcy.
1306.24
Refunds.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3701-3719; 5 U.S.C. 5514; 31 CFR part 285; 31 CFR parts 900-904; 5 CFR part 550 subpart K.

# Source:
81 FR 59441, Aug. 30, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1306.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part prescribe the procedures to be used by the Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) in the collection and/or disposal of non-tax debts owed to MCC and to the United States.
§ 1306.2
Scope.
(a)
Applicability of Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS).
MCC hereby adopts the provisions of the Federal Claims Collections Standards (31 CFR parts 900-904) and, except as set forth in this part or otherwise provided by law, MCC will conduct administrative actions to collect claims (including offset, compromise, suspension, termination, disclosure and referral) in accordance with the FCCS.
(b) This part is not applicable to any debt or claim for which collection is explicitly provided for or prohibited under other statutory authorities. This includes, but is not limited to:
(1) MCC claims against another Federal agency, any foreign country or any political subdivision thereof, or any public international organization.
(2) Debts arising out of acquisitions subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) which shall be determined, collected, compromised, terminated, or settled in accordance with the regulations published at 48 CFR part 32.
(3) Debts arising from the audit of transportation accounts pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3726 which shall be determined, collected, compromised, terminated, or settled in accordance with the regulations published at 41 CFR parts 102-118.
(4) Debts based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws, or in regard to which there is an indication of fraud, presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any other party having an interest in the claim,
which shall be referred to the Department of Justice for compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action.
(5) Tax debts.
§ 1306.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Administrative offset
means withholding funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt owed by the person to the United States.
(b)
Administrative wage garnishment
means the process by which a Federal agency orders a non-Federal employer to withhold amounts from a debtor's wages to satisfy a debt owed to the United States.
(c)
Compromise
means that the creditor agency accepts less than the full amount of an outstanding debt in full satisfaction of the entire amount of the debt.
(d)
Creditor agency
means the Federal agency to which a debt is owed including a debt collection center when acting in behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt (as provided in 5 CFR 550.1110).
(e)
Debt
or
claim
means an amount of money which has been determined to be owed to the United States from any person. A debtor's liability arising from a particular contract or transaction shall be considered a single claim for purposes of the monetary ceilings of the FCCS.
(f)
Debtor
means a person who owes the Federal government money.
(g)
Delinquent debt
means a debt that has not been paid by the date specified in MCC's written notification or applicable contractual agreement, unless other satisfactory arrangements have been made by that date, or that has not been paid in accordance with a payment agreement with MCC.
(h)
Discharge
means the release of a debtor from personal liability for a debt. Further collection action is prohibited.
(i)
Disposable pay
means the amount that remains from an employee's current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after required deductions for Federal, State and local income taxes; Social Security taxes, including Medicare taxes; Federal retirement programs; normal premiums for life and health insurance benefits and such other deductions that are required by law to be withheld, excluding garnishments.
(j)
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards published jointly by the Departments of the Treasury and Justice and codified at 31 CFR parts 900-904.
(k)
Person
means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency, Foreign Government, or public international organization.
(l)
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of a Federal employee without his or her consent to satisfy a debt owed by that employee to the United States.
(m)
Suspension
means the temporary cessation of active debt collection pending the occurrence of an anticipated event.
(n)
Termination
means the cessation of all active debt collection action for the foreseeable future.
(o)
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5522, 5 U.S.C. 5584, 5 U.S.C. 5922, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), or any other law.
§ 1306.4
Other procedures or actions.
(a) Nothing contained in this part is intended to require MCC to duplicate administrative proceedings required by contract or other laws or regulations.
(b) Nothing in this part is intended to preclude utilization of informal administrative actions or remedies which may be available.
(c) Nothing contained in this part is intended to deter MCC from demanding the return of specific property or from demanding the return of the property or the payment of its value.
(d) The failure of MCC to comply with any provision in this part shall not serve as defense to the debt.
§ 1306.5
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
Except as otherwise provided by statute, contract or excluded in accordance with the FCCS, MCC will assess:
(a) Interest on delinquent debts in accordance with 31 CFR 901.9.
(b) Penalties at the rate of 6 percent a year or such other rate as authorized by law on any portion of a debt that is delinquent for more than 90 days.
(c) Administrative costs to cover the costs of processing and calculating delinquent debts.
(d) Late payment charges under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be computed from the date of delinquency.
(e) When a debt is paid in partial or installment payments, amounts received shall be applied first to outstanding penalty and administrative cost charges, second to accrued interest, and then to outstanding principal.
(f) MCC shall consider waiver of interest, penalties and/or administrative costs in accordance with the FCCS, 31 CFR 901.9(g).
§ 1306.6
Collection in installments.
(a) Whenever feasible, and except as required otherwise by law, debts owed to the United States, together with interest, penalties, and administrative costs as required by this part, should be collected in one lump sum. This is true whether the debt is being collected under administrative offset, including salary offset, or by another method, including voluntary payment. However, if the debtor is financially unable to pay the indebtedness in one lump sum or the amount of debt exceeds 15 percent of disposable pay for an officially established pay interval collection must be made in regular installments. If possible, the installment payments should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the Government's claim within three years, and in the case of a current MCC employee, installment repayment plans must be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of employment, except as provided in paragraph (b) in this section. However, the amount deducted for any period under this section and § 1306.16 may not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount or a higher deduction has been ordered by a court.
(b) If the employee retires or resigns or if his or her employment ends before collection of the debt is completed, MCC may collect the debt from subsequent payments of any nature (e.g., final salary payment, lump-sum leave, etc.) due the employee from the paying agency as of the date of separation to the extent necessary to liquidate the debt. Following the employee's separation, MCC may collect any later payments of any kind that are due to the former employee from the United States to the extent necessary to liquidate the debt.
§ 1306.7
Designation.
The Chief Financial Officer is delegated authority and designated to perform all the duties for which head of the agency is responsible under the forgoing statutes and joint regulations. The authority delegated hereunder may be further delegated by the Chief Financial Officer subject to applicable laws, regulations and MCC policies.
§ 1306.8
Application.
(a) MCC shall aggressively collect claims and debts in accordance with this part and applicable law.
(b) In accordance with the FCCS:
(1) MCC will transfer to the Department of the Treasury, Financial Management Service (FMS) any past due, legally enforceable non-tax debt that has been delinquent for 180 days or more so that FMS may take appropriate action to collect the debt or take other appropriate action in accordance with applicable law and regulation; and
(2) MCC may transfer any past due, legally enforceable debt that has been delinquent for fewer than 180 days to FMS for collection in accordance with applicable law and regulation. (See 31 CFR part 285).
§ 1306.9
Administrative wage garnishment.
MCC hereby adopts the administrative wage garnishment rules issued by
the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR 285.11.
§ 1306.10
Scope.
(a) This subpart sets forth MCC's procedures for the collection of a Federal employee's current pay by salary offset to satisfy certain debts owed to the United States.
(b) This subpart applies to:
(1) Current employees of MCC and other agencies who owe debts to MCC;
(2) Current employees of MCC who owe debts to other agencies.
(c) This subpart does not apply to:
(1) Debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.
); the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
); the tariff laws of the United States.
(2) Any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (e.g., travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108); or
(3) Any other debts excluded by the Federal Claims Collections Standards (31 CFR parts 900-904) or 31 CFR part 285.
(d) This part does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of the debt, if waiver is available under subpart C of this part or by other regulation or statute.
(e) Nothing in this part precludes the compromise, suspension or termination of collection actions where appropriate under § 1306.18 or other regulations or statutes.
§ 1306.11
Coordinating offset with another Federal agency.
(a) When MCC is owed a debt by an employee of another agency, MCC shall provide the agency with a written certification that the debtor owes MCC a debt (including the amount and basis of the debt and the due date of payment) and that MCC has complied with this part.
(b) When another agency is owed the debt, MCC may use salary offset against one of its employees who is indebted to another agency, if requested to do so by that agency. Such request must be accompanied by a certification that the person owes the debt (including the amount and basis of the debt and the due date of payment) and that the agency has complied with its regulations as required by 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K.
§ 1306.12
Notice requirements before offset.
(a) Deductions under the authority of 5 U.S.C. 5514 shall not be made unless the creditor agency first provides the employee with written notice that he/she owes a debt to the Federal Government at least 30 calendar days before salary offset is to be initiated. When MCC is the creditor agency this notice of intent to offset an employee's salary shall be hand-delivered or sent by certified mail to the most current address that is available. The written notice will state:
(1) That MCC has reviewed the records relating to the claim and has determined that a debt is owed, its origin and nature, and the amount of the debt;
(2) The intention of MCC to collect the debt by means of deduction from the employee's current disposable pay account until the debt, all accumulated interest, penalties and administrative costs are paid in full;
(3) The amount, frequency, approximate beginning date, and duration of the intended deductions;
(4) An explanation of MCC's policy concerning interest, penalties and administrative costs, including a statement that such assessments must be made unless excused in accordance with the FCCS;
(5) The employee's right to inspect and copy all records of MCC pertaining to the debt claimed or to receive copies of such records if personal inspection is impractical;
(6) If not previously provided, the opportunity (under terms agreeable to MCC) to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or to enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for repayment of the debt in lieu of offset. The agreement must be in writing, signed by both the employee and MCC, and documented in MCC's files;
(7) The employee's right to a hearing conducted by a hearing official (an administrative law judge, or alternatively, an individual not under the
supervision or control of MCC, but in each case arranged by MCC) with respect to the existence and amount of the debt claimed, or the repayment schedule, so long as a petition is filed by the employee in accordance with this part;
(8) The name, address and telephone number of an official to whom questions and correspondence regarding this notice may be directed;
(9) The method and time period for requesting a hearing;
(10) That the timely filing of a petition for a hearing as prescribed by this part will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(11) The name and address of the office to which the petition for hearing should be sent;
(12) That MCC will initiate certification procedures to implement a salary offset, as appropriate, (which may not exceed 15 percent of the employee's disposable pay) not less than 30 calendar days from the date of delivery of the notice of debt, unless the employee files a timely petition for a hearing;
(13) That a final decision on the hearing (if one is requested) will be issued at the earliest practical date, but not later than 60 calendar days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing, unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(14) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representation, or evidence may subject the employee to disciplinary procedures (5 U.S.C. Chapter 75, 5 CFR part 752 or other applicable statutes or regulations); penalties (31 U.S.C. 3729-3731 or other applicable statutes or regulations); or criminal penalties (18 U.S.C. 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 or other applicable statutes or regulations);
(15) Any other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made;
(16) That unless there are applicable contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee; and
(17) That proceedings with respect to such debt are governed by 5 U.S.C. 5514.
(b) MCC is not required to provide prior notice to an employee when the following adjustments are made by MCC to an MCC employee's pay:
(1) Any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(2) A routine adjustment of pay that is made to correct an overpayment of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayment occurred within the four pay periods preceding the adjustment, and, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature and the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting the adjustment; or
(3) Any adjustment to collect a debt of $50 or less, if, at the time of such adjustment, or as soon thereafter as practical, the individual is provided written notice of the nature of the amount of the adjustment and a point of contact for contesting the adjustment.
§ 1306.13
Employee response.
(a)
Voluntary repayment agreement.
An employee may submit a request to enter into a written repayment agreement of the debt in lieu of offset. The request must be made within 7 days of receipt of notice under § 1306.12 to the official identified in § 1306.12(a)(8). The agreement must be in writing signed by both the employee and the appropriate official within MCC. Acceptance of such an agreement is discretionary with the Agency. An employee who enters into such an agreement may, nevertheless, seek a waiver under § 1306.18.
(b)
Reconsideration.
(1) An employee may seek a reconsideration of MCC's determination regarding the existence and/or amount of the debt. The request must be made within 7 days of receipt of notice under § 1306.12 to the official identified in 1306.12(a)(8). Within 20 days of receipt of this notice, the employee must submit a detailed statement of reasons for reconsideration
that must be accompanied by supporting documentation.
(2) An employee may seek a reconsideration of MCC's proposed offset schedule. The request must be made within 7 days of receipt of notice under § 1306.12 to the official identified in § 1306.12(a)(8). Within 20 days of receipt of this notice, the employee must submit an alternative repayment schedule accompanied by a detailed statement, supported by documentation, evidencing financial hardship resulting from MCC's proposed schedule. Acceptance of the request is at MCC's discretion. MCC will notify the employee in writing of its decision concerning the request to reduce the rate of an involuntary deduction.
§ 1306.14
Request for a hearing for certain debts.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, an employee must file a request that is received by the official identified in the notice provided pursuant to § 1306.12(a)(11) not later than 15 calendar days from the date of MCC's notice if an employee wants a hearing concerning:
(1) The existence or amount of the debt; or
(2) MCC's proposed offset schedule.
(b) The request must be signed by the employee and should identify and explain with reasonable specificity and brevity the facts, evidence and witnesses, if any, which the employee believes support his or her position. If the employee objects to the percentage of disposable pay to be deducted from each check, the request should state the objection and the reasons for it.
(c) The employee must also specify whether an oral or paper hearing is requested. If an oral hearing is desired, the request should explain why the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence alone.
(d) If the employee files a request for a hearing later than the required 15 calendar days as described in paragraph (a) of this section, MCC may accept the request if the employee can show that the delay was because of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice of the filing deadline (unless the employee otherwise has actual notice of the filing deadline).
(e) If the employee files a timely request for reconsideration pursuant to § 1306.13(b), the employee must file a request for a hearing by the official identified in the notice provided pursuant to § 1306.12(a)(11) not later than 15 calendar days from the date of MCC's written decision concerning the reconsideration request.
(f) An employee waives the right to a hearing and will have his or her pay offset if the employee fails to file a petition for a hearing in accordance with this section.
§ 1306.15
Hearings.
(a) If an employee timely files a request for a hearing under § 1306.14, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 5514(a)(2), the hearing official shall select the time, date, and location of the hearing.
(b) Hearings shall be conducted by a hearing official not under the supervision or control of MCC or an administrative law judge.
(c)
Procedure.
(1) After the employee requests a hearing, the hearing official shall notify the employee of the form of the hearing to be provided. If the hearing will be oral, notice shall set forth the date, time and location of the hearing. If the hearing will be paper, the employee shall be notified that he or she should submit arguments in writing to the hearing official by a specified date after which the record shall be closed. This date shall give the employee reasonable time to submit documentation.
(2)
Oral hearing.
An employee who requests an oral hearing shall be provided an oral hearing if the hearing official determines that the matter cannot be resolved by review of documentary evidence alone (e.g., when an issue of credibility or veracity is involved). The hearing is not an adversarial adjudication, and need not take the form of an evidentiary hearing.
(3)
Paper hearing.
If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, he or she will make a decision based upon a review of the available written record.
(4)
Record.
The hearing official must maintain a summary record of any
hearing provided by this subpart. Witnesses who provide testimony will do so under oath or affirmation.
(5)
Content of decision.
The written decision shall include:
(i) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt;
(ii) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions; and
(iii) The terms of any repayment schedules, or the date salary offset will commence, if applicable.
(6) Failure to appear. In the absence of good cause shown (e.g., excused illness), an employee who fails to appear at an oral hearing shall be deemed, for the purpose of this part, to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the notice of intent. The hearing official shall schedule a new hearing date upon the request of MCC's representative when good cause is shown.
(d) A hearing official's decision is considered to be an official certification regarding the existence and amount of the debt for purposes of executing salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514 only.
§ 1306.16
Procedures for salary offset.
Unless otherwise provided by statute, regulation, or contract, the following procedures apply to salary offset:
(a)
Method.
Salary offset will be made by deduction at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of the employee without his or her consent.
(b)
Source.
The source of salary offset is current disposable pay.
(c)
Types of collection.
(1)
Lump sum payment.
Ordinarily debts will be collected by salary offset in one lump sum if possible. However, if the amount of the debt exceeds 15 percent of disposable pay for an officially established pay interval, the collection by salary offset must be made in installment deductions, except as provided by other laws or regulations or unless the employee has agreed in writing to a greater amount.
(2)
Installment deductions.
(i) The size of installment deductions must bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. If possible, the size of the deduction will be that necessary to liquidate the debt in no more than 1 year. However, the amount deducted for any period must not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, except as provided by other laws or regulations or unless the employee has agreed in writing to a greater amount.
(ii) Installment payments of less than $50 per pay period will be accepted only in unusual circumstances such as when that amount exceeds 15% of disposable pay.
(iii) Installment deductions should be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the Government's claim within three years and must be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of employment.
§ 1306.17
Non-waiver of rights by payments.
So long as there are no statutory or contractual provisions to the contrary, no employee payment (of all or a portion of a debt) collected under this part will be interpreted as a waiver of any rights that the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514.
§ 1306.18
Waiver of indebtedness.
(a) An employee may request a waiver of indebtedness. When an employee makes a request under a statutory right, further collection may be stayed pending an administrative determination on the request. During the period of any suspension, interest, penalties and administrative charges may be held in abeyance. MCC will not duplicate, for purposes of salary offset, any of the notices/procedures already provided the debtor prior to a request for waiver.
(b) Waiver of indebtedness is an equitable remedy and as such must be based on an assessment of the facts involved in the individual case under consideration. The burden is on the employee to demonstrate that the applicable waiver standard has been met in accordance with MCC's Policy on Waivers of Indebtedness.
(c) A debtor requesting a waiver shall do so in writing to the official identified in § 1306.12(a)(8) and within the timeframe stated within the initial notice sent under § 1306.12. The debtor's
written response shall state the basis for the dispute and include any relevant documentation in support.
(d) While a waiver request is pending, MCC may suspend collection, including the accrual of interest and penalties, on the debt if MCC determines that suspension is in the agency's best interest or would serve equity and good conscience.
§ 1306.19
Compromise.
MCC may attempt to effect a compromise with respect to the debt in accordance with the process and standards set forth in the FCCS, 31 CFR part 902.
§ 1306.20
Suspension.
Any suspension of collection action shall be made in accordance with the standards set forth in the FCCS, 31 CFR 903.1-903.2.
§ 1306.21
Termination.
Any termination of a collection action shall be made in accordance with the standards set forth in the FCCS, 31 CFR 903.1 and 903.3-903.4.
§ 1306.22
Discharge.
Once a debt has been closed out for accounting purposes and collection has been terminated, the debt is discharged. MCC must report discharged debt as income to the debtor to the Internal Revenue Service per 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1.
§ 1306.23
Bankruptcy.
A debtor should notify MCC at the contact office provided in the original notice of the debt, if the debtor has filed for bankruptcy. MCC will require documentation from the applicable court indicating the date of filing and type of bankruptcy. Pursuant to the laws of bankruptcy, MCC will suspend debt collection upon such filing unless the automatic stay is no longer in effect or has been lifted. In general, collection of a debt discharged in bankruptcy shall be terminated unless otherwise provided for by bankruptcy law.
§ 1306.24
Refunds.
(a) MCC will refund promptly to the appropriate individual amounts offset under this part when:
(1) A debt is waived or otherwise found not owing the United States (unless expressly prohibited by statute or regulation); or
(2) MCC is directed by an administrative or judicial order to make a refund.
(b) Refunds do not bear interest unless required or permitted by law or contract.
PARTS 1307-1399 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. XIV (4-1-25 Edition)
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board, etc.

# CHAPTER XIV—FOREIGN SERVICE LABOR RELATIONS BOARD; FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY; GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY; AND THE FOREIGN SERVICE IMPASSE DISPUTES PANEL
SUBCHAPTER A [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER B—GENERAL PROVISIONS
Part
Page
1400-1410
[Reserved]
1411
Availability of official information
393
1413
Open meetings
399
1414
Ex parte communications
401

# SUBCHAPTER C—FOREIGN SERVICE LABOR RELATIONS BOARD AND GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
1420
Purpose and scope
405
1421
Meaning of terms as used in this subchapter
405
1422
Representation proceedings
407
1423
Unfair labor practice proceedings
418
1424
Expedited review of negotiability issues
428
1425
Review of implementation dispute actions
430
1427
General statements of policy or guidance
430
1428
Enforcement of Assistant Secretary standards of conduct decisions and orders
431
1429
Miscellaneous and general requirements
432

# SUBCHAPTER D—FOREIGN SERVICE IMPASSE DISPUTES PANEL
1470
General
438
1471
Procedures of the panel
438
1472-1499
[Reserved]
Appendix A to Chapter XIV—Current addresses and geographic jurisdictions
441
Appendix B to Chapter XIV—Memorandum describing the authority and assigned responsibilities of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority under the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute
442
SUBCHAPTER A [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER B—GENERAL PROVISIONS
PARTS 1400-1410 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1411

# PART 1411—AVAILABILITY OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION
Sec.
1411.1
Purpose and scope.
1411.2
Delegation of authority.
1411.3
Information policy.
1411.4
Procedure for obtaining information.
1411.5
Identification of information requested.
1411.6
Time limits for processing requests.
1411.7
Appeal from denial of request.
1411.8
Extension of time limits.
1411.9
Effect of failure to meet time limits.
1411.10
Fees.
1411.11
Compliance with subpoenas.
1411.12
Annual report.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
46 FR 45854, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1411.1
Purpose and scope.
This part contains the regulations of the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board (the Board), the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority (the General Counsel) and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (the Panel) providing for public access to information from the Board, the General Counsel or the Panel. These regulations implement the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552, and the policy of the Board, the General Counsel and the Panel to disseminate information on matters of interest to the public and to disclose to members of the public on request such information contained in records insofar as is compatible with the discharge of their responsibilities, consistent with applicable law.
§ 1411.2
Delegation of authority.
(a)
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board/General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
Regional Directors of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, the Freedom of Information Officer of the Office of the General Counsel, Washington, DC, and the Solicitor of the Federal Labor Relations Authority are delegated the exclusive authority to act upon all requests for information, documents and records which are received from any person or organization under § 1411.4(a).
(b)
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel.
The Executive Director of the Federal Service Impasses Panel is delegated the exclusive authority to act upon all requests for information, documents and records which are received from any person or organization under § 1411.4(b).
§ 1411.3
Information policy.
(a)
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board/General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
(1) It is the policy of the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board and the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority to make available for public inspection and copying: (i) Final decisions and orders of the Board and administrative rulings of the General Counsel; (ii) statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the Board or by the General Counsel and are not published in the
Federal Register
; and (iii) administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public (except those establishing internal operating rules, guidelines, and procedures for the investigation, trial, and settlement of cases). Any person may examine and copy items in paragraphs (a)(1) (i) through (iii) of this section at each regional office of the Authority and at the offices of the Authority and the General Counsel, respectively, in Washington, DC, under conditions prescribed by the Board and the General Counsel, respectively, and at reasonable times during normal working hours so long as it does not interfere with the efficient operations of the Authority, the Board and the General Counsel. To the extent required to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, identifying details may be deleted and, in each case, the justification for the deletion shall be fully explained in writing.
(2) It is the policy of the Board and the General Counsel to make promptly available for public inspection and copying, upon request by any person, other records where the request reasonably describes such records and otherwise conforms with the rules provided herein.
(b)
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel.
(1) It is the policy of the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel to make available for public inspection and copying: (i) Procedural determinations of the Panel; (ii) factfinding and arbitration reports; (iii) final decisions and orders of the Panel; (iv) statements of policy and interpretations which have been adopted by the Panel and are not published in the
Federal Register
; and (v) administrative staff manuals and instructions to staff that affect a member of the public. Any person may examine and copy items in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section at the offices of the Federal Service Impasses Panel in Washington, DC, under conditions prescribed by the Panel, and at reasonable times during normal working hours so long as it does not interfere with the efficient operations of the Federal Service Impasses Panel and the Panel. To the extent required to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, identifying details may be deleted and, in each case, the justification for the deletion shall be fully explained in writing.
(2) It is the policy of the Panel to make promptly available for public inspection and copying, upon request by any person, other records where the request reasonably describes such records and otherwise conforms with the rules provided herein.
(c) The Board, the General Counsel and the Panel shall maintain and make available for public inspection and copying the current indexes and supplements thereto which are required by 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) and, as appropriate, a record of the final votes of each member of the Board and of the Panel in every agency proceeding. Any person may examine and copy such document or record of the Board, the General Counsel or the Panel at the offices of the Authority, the General Counsel, or the Federal Service Impasses Panel, as appropriate, in Washington, DC, under conditions prescribed by the Board, the General Counsel or the Panel at reasonable times during normal working hours so long as it does not interfere with the efficient operations of the Authority, the Board, the General Counsel, the Federal Service Impasses Panel, or the Panel.
(d) The Board, the General Counsel or the Panel may decline to disclose any matters exempted from the disclosure requirements in 5 U.S.C. 552(b), particularly those that are:
(1)(i) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy and (ii) are in fact properly classified pursuant to such executive order;
(2) Related solely to internal personnel rules and practices of the Authority, the General Counsel or the Federal Service Impasses Panel;
(3) Specifically exempted from disclosure by statute (other than 5 U.S.C. 552(b)):
Provided,
That such statute:
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue; or
(ii) Establishes particular criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(4) Trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential;
(5) Interagency or intra-agency memoranda or letters which would not be available by law to a party other than an agency in litigation with the agency;
(6) Personnel and medical files and similar files the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; or
(7) Investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that the production of such records would:
(i) Interfere with an enforcement proceeding;
(ii) Deprive a person of a right to a fair trial or an impartial adjudication;
(iii) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy;
(iv) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a
record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation, or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the confidential source;
(v) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures; or
(vi) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel.
(e)(1) The formal documents constituting the record in a case or proceeding are matters of official record and, until destroyed pursuant to applicable statutory authority, are available to the public for inspection and copying at the appropriate regional office of the Authority, or the offices of the Authority, the General Counsel or the Federal Service Impasses Panel in Washington, DC, as appropriate, under conditions prescribed by the Authority, the General Counsel or the Federal Service Impasses Panel at reasonable times during normal working hours so long as it does not interfere with the efficient operations of the Authority, the General Counsel or the Federal Service Impasses Panel.
(2) The Board, the General Counsel or the Panel, as appropriate, shall certify copies of the formal documents upon request made a reasonable time in advance of need and payment of lawfully prescribed costs.
(f)(1) Copies of forms prescribed by the Board for the filing of charges and petitions may be obtained without charge from any regional office of the Authority.
(2) Copies of forms prescribed by the Panel for the filing of requests may be obtained without charge from the offices of the Federal Service Impasses Panel in Washington, DC.
§ 1411.4
Procedure for obtaining information.
(a)
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board/General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
Any person who desires to inspect or copy any records, documents or other information of the Board or the General Counsel, covered by this part, other than those specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (c) of § 1411.3, shall submit a written request to that effect as follows:
(1) If the request is for records, documents or other information in a regional office of the Authority, it should be made to the appropriate Regional Director;
(2) If the request is for records, documents or other information in the Office of the General Counsel and located in Washington, DC, it should be made to the Freedom of Information Officer, Office of the General Counsel, Washington, DC; and
(3) If the request is for records, documents or other information in the offices of the Authority in Washington, DC, it should be made to the Solicitor of the Authority, Washington, DC.
(b)
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel.
Any person who desires to inspect or copy any records, documents or other information of the Panel covered by this part, other than those specified in paragraphs (b) (1) and (c) of § 1411.3, shall submit a written request to that effect to the Executive Director, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Washington, DC.
(c) All requests under this part should be clearly and prominently identified as a request for information under the Freedom of Information Act and, if submitted by mail or otherwise submitted in an envelope or other cover, should be clearly identified as such on the envelope or other cover. If a request does not comply with the provisions of this paragraph, it shall not be deemed received by the appropriate Regional Director, the Freedom of Information Officer of the Office of the General Counsel, the Solicitor of the Authority, or the Executive Director of the Federal Service Impasses Panel, as appropriate, until the time it is actually received by such person.
§ 1411.5
Identification of information requested.
(a) Each request under this part should reasonbaly describe the records being sought in a way that they can be identified and located. A request should include all pertinent details that will help identify the records sought.
(b) If the description is insufficient, the officer processing the request will
so notify the person making the request and indicate the additional information needed. Every reasonable effort shall be made to assist in the identification and location of the record sought.
(c) Upon receipt of a request for records, the appropriate Regional Director, the Freedom of Information Officer of the Office of the General Counsel, the Solicitor of the Authority, or the Executive Director of the Federal Service Impasses Panel, as appropriate, shall enter it in a public log. The log shall state the date and time received, the name and address of the person making the request, the nature of the records requested, the action taken on the request, the date of the determination letter sent pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of § 1411.6, the date(s) any records are subsequently furnished, the number of staff-hours and grade levels of persons who spent time responding to the request, and the payment requested and received.
§ 1411.6
Time limits for processing requests.
(a) All time limits established pursuant to this section shall begin as of the time at which a request for records is logged in by the appropriate Regional Director, the Freedom of Information Officer of the Office of the General Counsel, the Solicitor of the Authority, or the Executive Director of the Federal Service Impasses Panel, as appropriate, processing the request pursuant to paragraph (c) of § 1411.5. An oral request for records shall not begin any time requirement. A written request for records sent to other than the appropriate officer will be forwarded to that officer by the receiving officer, but in that event the applicable time limit for response set forth in paragraph (b) of this section shall begin upon the request being logged in as required by paragraph (c) of § 1411.5.
(b) Except as provided in § 1411.8, the appropriate Regional Director, the Freedom of Information Officer of the Office of the General Council, the Solicitor of the Authority, or the Executive Director of the Federal Service Impasses Panel, as appropriate, shall, within ten (10) working days following receipt of the request, respond in writing to the requester, determining whether, or the extent to which, the request shall be complied with.
(1) If all the records requested have been located and a final determination has been made with respect to disclosure of all of the records requested, the response shall so state.
(2) If all of the records have not been located or a final determination has not been made with respect to disclosure of all the records requested, the response shall state the extent to which the records involved shall be disclosed pursuant to the rules established in this part.
(3) If the request is expected to involve an assessed fee in excess of $25.00, the response shall specify or estimate the fee involved and shall require prepayment of any charges in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of § 1411.10 before the records are made available.
(4) Whenever possible, the response relating to a request for records that involves a fee of less than $25.00 shall be accompanied by the requested records. Where this is not possible, the records shall be forwarded as soon as possible thereafter, consistent with other obligations of the Board, the General Counsel or the Panel.
(c) If any request for records is denied in whole or in part, the response required by paragraph (b) of this section shall notify the requester of the denial. Such denial shall specify the reason therefor, set forth the name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial, and notify the person making the request of the right to appeal the denial under the provisions of § 1411.7.
§ 1411.7
Appeal from denial of request.
(a)
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board/General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
(1) Whenever any request for records is denied, a written appeal may be filed within thirty (30) days after the requester receives notification that the request has been denied or after the requester receives any records being made available, in the event of partial denial. If the denial was made by a Regional Director or by the Freedom of Information Officer of the Office of the General
Counsel, the appeal shall be filed with the General Counsel in Washington, DC. If the denial was made by the Solicitor of the Authority, the appeal shall be filed with the Chairperson of the Board in Washington, DC.
(2) The Chairperson of the Board or the General Counsel, as appropriate, shall, within twenty (20) working days from the time of receipt of the appeal, except as provided in § 1411.8, make a determination on the appeal and respond in writing to the requester, determining whether, or the extent to which, the request shall be complied with.
(i) If the determination is to comply with the request and the request is expected to involve an assessed fee in excess of $25.00, the determination shall specify or estimate the fee involved and shall require prepayment of any charges due in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of § 1411.10 before the records are made available.
(ii) Whenever possible, the determination relating to a request for records that involves a fee of less than $25.00 shall be accompanied by the requested records. Where this is not possible, the records shall be forwarded as soon as possible thereafter, consistent with other obligations of the Board or the General Counsel.
(b)
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel.
(1) Whenever any request for records is denied by the Executive Director of the Federal Service Impasses Panel, a written appeal may be filed with the Chairperson of the Panel within thirty (30) days after the requester receives notification that the request has been denied or after the requester receives any records being made available, in the event of partial denial.
(2) The Chairperson of the Panel, within twenty (20) working days from the time of receipt of the appeal, except as provided in § 1411.8, shall make a determination on the appeal and respond in writing to the requester, determining whether, or the extent to which, the request shall be complied with.
(i) If the determination is to comply with the request and the request is expected to involve an assessed fee in excess of $25.00, the determination shall specify or estimate the fee involved and shall require prepayment of any charges due in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of § 1411.10 before the records are made available.
(ii) Whenever possible, the determination relating to a request for records that involves a fee of less than $25.00 shall be accompanied by the requested records. Where this is not possible, the records shall be forwarded as soon as possible thereafter, consistent with other obligations of the Panel.
(c) If on appeal the denial of the request for records is upheld in whole or in part by the Chairperson of the Board, the General Counsel, or the Chairperson of the Panel, as appropriate, the person making the request shall be notified of the reasons for the determination, the name and title or position of the person responsible for the denial, and the provisions for judicial review of that determination under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4). Even though no appeal is filed from a denial in whole or in part of a request for records by the person making the request, the Chairperson of the Board, the General Counsel or the Chairperson of the Panel, as appropriate, may, without regard to the time limit for filing of an appeal, sua sponte initiate consideration of a denial under this appeal procedure by written notification to the person making the request. In such event, the time limit for making the determination shall commence with the issuance of such notification.
§ 1411.8
Extension of time limits.
In unusual circumstances as specified in this section, the time limits prescribed with respect to initial determinations or determinations on appeal may be extended by written notice from the officer handling the request (either initial or on appeal) to the person making such request setting forth the reasons for such extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be dispatched. No such notice shall specify a date that would result in a total extension of more than ten (10) working days. As used in this section, “unusual circumstances” means, but only to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of the particular request:
(a) The need to search for and collect the requested records from field facilities or other establishments that are separate from the office processing the request;
(b) The need to search for, collect and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or
(c) The need for consultation, which shall be conducted with all practicable speed, with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request or among two or more components of the agency having substantial subject matter interest therein.
§ 1411.9
Effect of failure to meet time limits.
Failure by the Board, the General Counsel or the Federal Service Impasses Panel either to deny or grant any request under this part within the time limits prescribed by the Freedom of Information Act, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552, and these regulations shall be deemed to be an exhaustion of the administrative remedies available to the person making this request.
§ 1411.10
Fees.
Persons requesting records from the Board, the General Counsel or the Panel shall be subject to a charge of fees for the direct cost of document search and duplication in accordance with the following schedules, procedures and conditions:
(a) The following fees shall be charged for disclosure of any record pursuant to this part:
(1)
Copying of records.
Ten cents per copy of each page.
(2)
Clerical searches.
$1.25 for each one-quarter hour spent by clerical personnel searching for and producing a requested record, including time spent copying any record.
(3)
Nonclerical searches.
$2.50 for each one-quarter hour spent by professional or managerial personnel searching for and producing a requested record, including time spent copying any record.
(4)
Forwarding material to destination.
Postage, insurance and special fees will be charged on an actual cost basis.
(b) All charges may be waived or reduced whenever it is in the public interest to do so.
(c) Requests for copies of transcripts of hearings should be made to the official hearing reporter. However, a person may request a copy of a transcript of a hearing from the Board, the Panel or the General Counsel, as appropriate. In such instance, the Board, the Panel or the General Counsel, as appropriate, may, by agreement with the person making the request, make arrangements with commercial firms for required services to be charged directly to the requester.
(d) No charge shall be made for the time spent in resolving legal or policy issues or in examining records for the purpose of deleting nondisclosable portions thereof.
(e) Payment of fees shall be made by check or money order payable to the U.S. Treasury.
§ 1411.11
Compliance with subpoenas.
No member of the Board or the Panel, or the General Counsel, or employee of the Authority, the Federal Service Impasses Panel, or the General Counsel shall produce or present any files, documents, reports, memoranda, or records of the Board, the Panel or the General Counsel, or testify in behalf of any party to any cause pending in any arbitration or in any court or before the Board or the Panel, or any other board, commission, or administrative agency of the United States, territory, or the District of Columbia with respect to any information, facts, or other matter to their knowledge in their official capacity or with respect to the contents of any files, documents, reports, memoranda, or records of the Board, the Panel or the General Counsel, whether in answer to a subpoena, subpoena duces tecum, or otherwise, without the written consent of the Board, the Panel or the General Counsel, as appropriate. Whenever any subpoena, the purpose for which is to adduce testimony or require the production of records as described in this section, shall have been served on any member of the Board or of the Panel or employee of the Authority, the Federal Service Impasses Panel or the General
Counsel, such person will, unless otherwise expressly directed by the Board, the Panel or the General Counsel, as appropriate, and as provided by law, move pursuant to the applicable procedure to have such subpoena invalidated on the ground that the evidence sought is privileged against disclosure by this rule.
§ 1411.12
Annual report.
On or before March 1 of each calendar year, the Executive Director of the Authority shall submit a report of the activities of the Board, the General Counsel and the Panel with regard to public information requests during the preceding calendar year to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate for referral to the appropriate committees of the Congress. The report shall include for such calendar year all information required by 5 U.S.C. 552(d) and such other information as indicates the efforts of the Board, the General Counsel and the Panel to administer fully the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, as amended.
Pt. 1413

# PART 1413—OPEN MEETINGS
Sec.
1413.1
Purpose and scope.
1413.2
Public observation of meetings.
1413.3
Definition of meeting.
1413.4
Closing of meetings; reasons therefor.
1413.5
Action necessary to close meeting; record of votes.
1413.6
Notice of meetings; public announcement and publication.
1413.7
Transcripts, recordings or minutes of closed meeting; public availability; retention.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552b.

# Source:
46 FR 45858, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1413.1
Purpose and scope.
This part contains the regulations of the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board implementing the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b.
§ 1413.2
Public observation of meetings.
Every portion of every meeting of the Board shall be open to public observation, except as provided in § 1413.4, and Board members shall not jointly conduct or dispose of agency business other than in accordance with the provisions of this part.
§ 1413.3
Definition of meeting.
For purposes of this part,
meeting
shall mean the deliberations of at least two (2) members of the Board where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official agency business, but does not include deliberations to determine whether a meeting should be closed to public observation in accordance with the provisions of this part.
§ 1413.4
Closing of meetings; reasons therefor.
(a) Except where the Board determines that the public interest requires otherwise, meetings, or portions thereof, shall not be open to public observation where the deliberations concern the issuance of a subpoena, the Board participation in a civil action or proceeding or an arbitration, or the initiation, conduct or disposition by the Board of particular cases of formal agency adjudication pursuant to the procedures in 5 U.S.C. 554 or otherwise involving a determination on the record after opportunity for a hearing, or any court proceedings collateral or ancillary thereto.
(b) Meetings, or portions thereof, may also be closed by the Board, except where it determines that the public interest requires otherwise, when the deliberations concern matters or information falling within the reasons for closing meetings specified in 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(1) (secret matters concerning national defense or foreign policy); (c)(2) (internal personnel rules and practices); (c)(3) (matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute); (c)(4) (privileged or confidential trade secrets and commercial or financial information); (c)(5) (matters of alleged criminal conduct or formal censure); (c)(6) (personal information where disclosure would cause a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy); (c)(7) (certain materials or information from investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes); or (c)(9)(B) (disclosure would significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action).
§ 1413.5
Action necessary to close meeting; record of votes.
A meeting shall be closed to public observation under § 1413.4, only when a majority of the members of the Board who will participate in the meeting vote to take such action.
(a) When the meeting deliberations concern matters specified in § 1413.4(a), the Board members shall vote at the beginning of the meeting, or portion thereof, on whether to close such meeting, or portion thereof, to public observation and on whether the public interest requires that a meeting which may properly be closed should nevertheless be open to public observation. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member of the Board, shall be kept and made available to the public at the earliest practicable time.
(b) When the meeting deliberations concern matters specified in § 1413.4(b), the Board shall vote on whether to close such meeting, or portion thereof, to public observation, and on whether there is a public interest which requires that a meeting which may properly be closed should nevertheless be open to public observation. The vote shall be taken at a time sufficient to permit inclusion of information concerning the open or closed status of the meeting in the public announcement thereof. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings at which the deliberations will concern the same particular matters where such subsequent meetings are scheduled to be held within thirty (30) days after the initial meeting. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member of the Board, shall be kept and made available for the public within one (1) day after the vote is taken.
(c) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by deliberations during a meeting, or a portion thereof, requests that the Board close that meeting, or portion thereof, to public observation for any of the reasons specified in 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(5) (matters of alleged criminal conduct or formal censure), (c)(6) (personal information where disclosure would cause a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy), or (c)(7) (certain materials or information from investigatory files compiled for law enforcement purposes), the Board members participating in the meeting, upon request of any one of its members, shall vote on whether to close such meeting, or a portion thereof, for that reason. A record of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member of the Board participating in the meeting, shall be kept and made available to the public within one (1) day after the vote is taken.
(d) After public announcement of a meeting as provided in § 1413.6, a meeting, or portion thereof, announced as closed may be opened, or a meeting, or portion thereof, announced as open may be closed only if a majority of the members of the Board who will participate in the meeting determine by a recorded vote that Board business so requires and that an earlier announcement of the change was not possible. The change made and the vote of each member on the change shall be announced publicly at the earliest practicable time.
(e) Before a meeting may be closed pursuant to § 1413.4, the Solicitor of the Authority shall certify that in the Solicitor's opinion the meeting may properly be closed to public observation. The certification shall set forth each applicable exemptive provision for such closing. Such certification shall be retained by the agency and made publicly available as soon as practicable.
§ 1413.6
Notice of meetings; public announcement and publication.
(a) A public announcement setting forth the time, place and subject matter of meetings, or portions thereof, closed to public observation pursuant to the provisions of § 1413.4(a), shall be made at the earliest practicable time.
(b) Except for meetings closed to public observation pursuant to the provisions of § 1413.4(a), the agency shall make public announcement of each meeting to be held at least seven (7) days before the scheduled date of the meeting. The announcement shall specify the time, place and subject matter of the meeting, whether it is to be open to public observation or closed, and the name, address, and phone number of an agency official designated to respond to requests for information about the meeting. The seven (7) day
period for advance notice may be shortened only upon a determination by a majority of the members of the Board who will participate in the meeting that agency business requires that such meeting be called at an earlier date, in which event the public announcements shall be made at the earliest practicable time. A record of the vote to schedule a meeting at an earlier date shall be kept and made available to the public.
(c) Within one (1) day after a vote to close a meeting, or any portion thereof, pursuant to the provisions of § 1413.4(b), the agency shall make publicly available a full written explanation of its action closing the meeting, or portion thereof, together with a list of all persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliation.
(d) If after public announcement required by paragraph (b) of this section has been made, the time and place of the meeting are changed, a public announcement shall be made at the earliest practicable time. The subject matter of the meeting may be changed after the public announcement only if a majority of the members of the Board who will participate in the meeting determine that agency business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible. When such a change in subject matter is approved, a public announcement of the change shall be made at the earliest practicable time. A record of the vote to change the subject matter of the meeting shall be kept and made available to the public.
(e) All announcements or changes thereto issued pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section or pursuant to the provisions of § 1413.5(d) shall be submitted for publication in the
Federal Register
immediately following their release to the public.
(f) Announcements of meetings made pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be made publicly available by the Executive Director of the Authority.
§ 1413.7
Transcripts, recordings or minutes of closed meeting; public availability; retention.
(a) For every meeting, or portion thereof, closed under the provisions of § 1413.4, the presiding officer shall prepare a statement setting forth the time and place of the meeting and the persons present, which statement shall be retained by the agency. For each such meeting, or portion thereof, there shall also be maintained a complete transcript or electronic recording of the proceedings, except that for meetings closed pursuant to § 1413.4(a), the Board may, in lieu of a transcript or electronic recording, maintain a set of minutes fully and accurately summarizing any action taken, the reasons therefor and views thereon, documents considered and the members' vote on each roll-call vote.
(b) The agency shall make promptly available to the public copies of transcripts, recordings or minutes maintained as provided in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, except to the extent the items therein contain information which the agency determines may be withheld pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552b(c). Copies of transcripts or minutes, or transcriptions of electronic recordings including the indentification of speakers, shall to the extent determined to be publicly available, be furnished to any person, subject to the payment of duplication costs in accordance with the schedule of fees set forth in § 1411.10 of this subchapter and the actual cost of transcription.
(c) The agency shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript, a complete copy of the minutes, or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two (2) years after such meeting or until one (1) year after the conclusion of any agency proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held whichever occurs later.
Pt. 1414

# PART 1414—EX PARTE COMMUNICATIONS
Sec.
1414.1
Purpose and scope.
1414.2
Unauthorized communications.
1414.3
Definitions.
1414.4
Duration of prohibition.
1414.5
Communications prohibited.
1414.6
Communications not prohibited.
1414.7
Solicitation of prohibited communications.
1414.8
Reporting of prohibited communications; penalties.
1414.9
Penalties and enforcement.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107(c).

# Source:
46 FR 45859, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1414.1
Purpose and scope.
This part contains the regulations of the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board relating to ex parte communications.
§ 1414.2
Unauthorized communications.
(a) No interested person outside this agency shall, in any Board proceeding subject to 5 U.S.C. 557(a), make or knowingly cause to be made any prohibited ex parte communication to any Board member or Authority employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding.
(b) No Board member or Authority employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding relevant to the merits of the proceeding shall: (1) Request any prohibited ex parte communications; or (2) make or knowingly cause to be made any prohibited ex parte communications about the proceeding to any interested person outside this agency relevant to the merits of the proceeding.
§ 1414.3
Definitions.
When used in this part:
(a) The term
person outside this agency,
to whom the prohibitions apply, shall include any individual outside the Board or the Authority, labor organization, agency, or other entity, or an agent thereof, and the General Counsel or his representative when prosecuting an unfair labor practice proceeding before the Board pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 4116.
(b) The term
ex parte communication
means an oral or written communication not on the public record with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all parties is not given, subject however, to the provisions of §§ 1414.5 and 1414.6.
§ 1414.4
Duration of prohibition.
Unless otherwise provided by specific order of the Board entered in the proceeding, the prohibition of § 1414.2 shall be applicable in any Board proceeding subject to 5 U.S.C. 557(a) beginning at the time of which the proceeding is noticed for hearing, unless the person responsible for the communication has knowledge that it will be noticed, in which case the prohibitions shall apply beginning at the time of such person's acquisition of such knowledge.
§ 1414.5
Communications prohibited.
Except as provided in § 1414.6, ex parte communications prohibited by § 1414.2 shall include:
(a) Such communications, when written, if copies thereof are not contemporaneously served by the communicator on all parties to the proceeding in accordance with the provisions of part 1429 of this chapter; and
(b) Such communications, when oral, unless advance notice thereof is given by the communicator to all parties in the proceeding and adequate opportunity afforded to them to be present.
§ 1414.6
Communications not prohibited.
Ex parte communications prohibited by § 1414.2 shall not include:
(a) Oral or written communications which relate solely to matters which the Hearing Officer, Regional Director, Administrative Law Judge, General Counsel or member of the Board is authorized by law or Board rules to entertain or dispose of on an ex parte basis;
(b) Oral or written requests for information solely with respect to the status of a proceeding;
(c) Oral or written communications which all the parties to the proceeding agree, or which the responsible official formally rules, may be made on an ex parte basis;
(d) Oral or written communications proposing settlement or an agreement for disposition of any or all issues in the proceeding;
(e) Oral or written communications which concern matters of general significance to the field of labor-management relations or administrative practice and which are not specifically related to any agency proceeding subject to 5 U.S.C. 557(a); or
(f) Oral or written communications from the General Counsel to the Board when the General Counsel is acting on behalf of the Board under 22 U.S.C. 4109(d).
§ 1414.7
Solicitation of prohibited communications.
No person shall knowingly and willfully solicit the making of an unauthorized ex parte communication by any other person.
§ 1414.8
Reporting of prohibited communications; penalties.
Any Board member or Authority employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding relevant to the merits of the proceeding to whom a prohibited oral ex parte communication is attempted to be made, shall refuse to listen to the communication, inform the communicator of this rule, and advise such person that if the person has anything to say it should be said in writing with copies to all parties. Any such Board member or Authority employee who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding relevant to the merits of the proceeding who receives, or who makes or knowingly causes to be made, an unauthorized ex parte communication, shall place or cause to be placed on the public record of the proceeding: (a) The communication, if it was written; (b) a memorandum stating the substance of the communication, if it was oral; (c) all written responses to the prohibited communication; and (d) memoranda stating the substance of all oral responses to the prohibited communication. The Executive Director of the Authority, if the proceeding is then pending before the Board, the Administrative Law Judge, if the proceeding is then pending before any such judge, or the Regional Director, if the proceeding is then pending before a Hearing Officer or the Regional Director, shall serve copies of all such materials placed on the public record of the proceeding on all other parties to the proceeding and on the attorneys of record for the parties. Within ten (10) days after the mailing of such copies, any party may file with the Executive Director of the Authority, Administrative Law Judge, or Regional Director serving the communication, as appropriate, and serve on all other parties, a statement setting forth facts or contentions to rebut those contained in the prohibited communication. All such responses shall be placed in the public record of the proceeding, and provision may be made for any further action, including reopening of the record, which may be required under the circumstances. No action taken pursuant to this provision shall constitute a waiver of the power of the Board to impose an appropriate penalty under § 1414.9
§ 1414.9
Penalties and enforcement.
(a) Where the nature and circumstances of a prohibited communication made by or caused to be made by a party to the proceeding are such that the interests of justice and statutory policy may require remedial action, the Board, Administrative Law Judge, or Regional Director, as appropriate, may issue to the party making the communication a notice to show cause, returnable before the Board, Administrative Law Judge, or Regional Director, within a stated period not less than seven (7) days from the date thereof, why the Board, Administrative Law Judge, or Regional Director should not determine that the interests of justice and statutory policy require that the claim or interest in the proceeding of a party who knowingly makes a prohibited communication or knowingly causes a prohibited communication to be made, should be dismissed, denied, disregarded or otherwise adversely affected on account of such violation.
(b) Upon notice and hearing, the Board may censure, suspend or revoke the privilege of practice before the agency of any person who knowingly and willfully makes or solicits the making of a prohibited ex parte communication. However, before the Board
institutes formal proceedings under this section, it shall first advise the person or persons concerned in writing that it proposes to take such action and that they may show cause, within a period to be stated in such written advice, but not less than seven (7) days from the date thereof, why it should not take such action.
(c) The Board may censure, or, to the extent permitted by law, suspend, dismiss, or institute proceedings for the dismissal of, any Board agent who knowingly and willfully violates the prohibitions and requirements of this rule.

# SUBCHAPTER C—FOREIGN SERVICE LABOR RELATIONS BOARD AND GENERAL COUNSEL OF THE FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
Pt. 1420

# PART 1420—PURPOSE AND SCOPE
§ 1420.1
Purpose and scope.
The regulations contained in this subchapter are designed to implement the provisions of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute. They prescribe the procedures and basic principles or criteria under which the Foreign Service Labor Relations Board or the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority, as applicable, will:
(a) Supervise or conduct elections and determine whether a labor organization has been selected as an exclusive representative by a majority of the employees who cast valid ballots and otherwise administer the provisions of the Statute relating to the according of exclusive recognition to a labor organization;
(b) Resolve complaints of alleged unfair labor practices;
(c) Resolve issues relating to the obligation to bargain in good faith;
(d) Resolve disputes concerning the effects, the interpretation, or a claim of breach of collective bargaining agreement, in accord with 22 U.S.C. 4114; and
(e) Take any action considered necessary to administer effectively the provisions of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
(Authority: 22 U.S.C. 4107(c))
[46 FR 45861, Sept. 15, 1981]
Pt. 1421

# PART 1421—MEANING OF TERMS AS USED IN THIS SUBCHAPTER
Sec.
1421.1
Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
1421.2
Terms defined in section 1002 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4102).
1421.3
Exclusive recognition; Unfair labor practices.
1421.4
Department.
1421.5
Regional Director.
1421.6
Executive Director.
1421.7
Hearing Officer.
1421.8
Administrative law judge.
1421.9
Chief Administrative Law Judge.
1421.10
Secretary.
1421.11
Party.
1421.12
Intervenor.
1421.13
Certification.
1421.14
Bargaining unit.
1421.15
Secret ballot.
1421.16
Showing of interest.
1421.17
Grievance Board.
1421.18
Regular and substantially equivalent employment.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107(c).

# Source:
46 FR 45861, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1421.1
Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
The term
Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute
means chapter 10 of title 1 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, codified as chapter 41 of title 22 of United States Code.
§ 1421.2
Terms defined in section 1002 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4102).
(a) The terms
Authority, Board, collective bargaining, collective bargaining agreement conditions of employment, confidential employee, dues, exclusive representative, General Counsel, labor organization, management official, Panel,
and
person,
as used herein shall have the meaning set forth in 22 U.S.C. 4102.
(b) The term
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor-Management Relations.
§ 1421.3
Exclusive recognition; Unfair labor practices.
(a)
Exclusive Recognition
has the meaning as set forth in 22 U.S.C. 4111; and
(b)
Unfair labor practices
has the meaning as set forth in 22 U.S.C. 4115.
§ 1421.4
Department.
Department
means the Department of State, except that with reference to the exercise of functions under this Act
with respect to another agency authorized by law to utilize the Foreign Service personnel system, such term means that other agency.
§ 1421.5
Regional Director.
Regional Director
means the Director of a region of the Authority with geographical boundaries as fixed by the Authority.
§ 1421.6
Executive Director.
Executive Director
means the Executive Director of the Authority.
§ 1421.7
Hearing Officer.
Hearing Officer
means the individual designated to conduct a hearing involving a question concerning the appropriateness of a unit or such other matters as may be assigned.
§ 1421.8
Administrative law judge.
Administrative law judge
means the Chief Administrative Law Judge or any administrative law judge designated by the Chief Administrative Law Judge to conduct a hearing in cases under 22 U.S.C. 4115, and such other matters as may be assigned.
§ 1421.9
Chief Administrative Law Judge.
Chief Administrative Law Judge
means the Chief Administrative Law Judge of the Authority.
§ 1421.10
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of State, except that (subject to 22 U.S.C. 3921) with reference to the exercise of functions under the Foreign Service Act of 1980 with respect to any agency authorized by law to utilize the Foreign Service personnel system, such term means the head of that agency.
§ 1421.11
Party.
Party
means (a) any person: (1) Filing a charge, petition, or request; (2) named in a charge, complaint, petition, or request; (3) whose intervention in a proceeding has been permitted or directed by the Board; (4) who participated as a party (i) in a matter that was decided by an agency head under 22 U.S.C. 4105 or (ii) in a matter where action by the Grievance Board was taken; and (b) the General Counsel, or the General Counsel's designated representative, in appropriate proceedings.
§ 1421.12
Intervenor.
Intervenor
means a party in a proceeding whose intervention has been permitted or directed by the Authority, its agents or representatives.
§ 1421.13
Certification.
Certification
means the determination by the Board, its agents or representatives, of the results of an election.
§ 1421.14
Bargaining unit.
Bargaining unit
has the meaning as set forth in 22 U.S.C. 4112 for the purpose of exclusive recognition under 22 U.S.C. 4111, and for purposes of allotments to representatives under 22 U.S.C. 4118.
§ 1421.15
Secret ballot.
Secret ballot
means the expression by ballot, voting machine or otherwise, but in no event by proxy, of a choice with respect to any election or vote taken upon any matter, which is cast in such a manner that the person expressing such choice cannot be identified with the choice expressed, except in that instance in which any determinative challenged ballot is opened.
§ 1421.16
Showing of interest.
Showing of interest
means evidence of membership in a labor organization; employees' signed and dated authorization cards or petitions authorizing a labor organization to represent them for purposes of exclusive recognition; allotment of dues forms executed by an employee and the labor organization's authorized official; current dues records; and existing or recently expired agreement; current exclusive recognition or certification; employees' signed and dated petitions or cards indicating that they no longer desire to be represented for the purposes of exclusive recognition by the currently recognized or certified labor organization; or other evidence approved by the Authority.
§ 1421.17
Grievance Board.
Grievance Board
means the Foreign Service Grievance Board established under 22 U.S.C. 4135.
§ 1421.18
Regular and substantially equivalent employment.
Regular and substantially equivalent employment
means employment that entails substantially the same amount of work, rate of pay, hours, working conditions, location of work, and seniority rights if any, of an employee prior to the cessation of employment in a Department because of any unfair labor practice under 22 U.S.C. 4115.
Pt. 1422

# PART 1422—REPRESENTATION PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
1422.1
Who may file petitions.
1422.2
Contents of petition; filing and service of petition; challenges to petition.
1422.3
Timeliness of petition.
1422.4
Investigation of petition and posting of notice of petition; action by Regional Director.
1422.5
Intervention.
1422.6
Withdrawal, dismissal or deferral of petitions; consolidation of cases; denial of intervention; review of action by Regional Director.
1422.7
Agreement for consent election.
1422.8
Notice of hearing; contents; attachments; procedures.
1422.9
Conduct of hearing.
1422.10
Motions.
1422.11
Rights of the parties.
1422.12
Duties and powers of the Hearing Officer.
1422.13
Objections to conduct of hearing.
1422.14
Filing of briefs.
1422.15
Transfer of case to the Board; contents of record.
1422.16
Decision.
1422.17
Election procedure; request for authorized representation election observers.
1422.18
Challenged ballots.
1422.19
Tally of ballots.
1422.20
Certification; objections to election; determination on objections and challenged ballots.
1422.21
Preferential voting.
1422.22
Inconclusive elections.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107.

# Source:
46 FR 45862, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1422.1
Who may file petitions.
(a) A petition for exclusive recognition may be filed by a labor organization requesting an election to determine whether it should be recognized as the exclusive representative of employees of the Department in the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112 or should replace another labor organization as the exclusive representative of employees in such unit.
(b) A petition for any election to determine if a labor organization should cease to be the exclusive representative because it does not represent a majority of employees in the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112 may be filed by an employee or employees or an individual acting on behalf of any employee(s).
(c) A petition seeking to clarify a matter relating to representation may be filed by the Department where the Department has a good faith doubt, based on objective considerations, that the currently recognized or certified labor organization represents a majority of the employees in the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112.
(d) A petition for clarification of the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112 or for amendment of recognition or certification may be filed by the Department or by a labor organization which is currently recognized by the Department as the exclusive representative.
(e) A petition for determination of eligibility for dues allotment may be filed by a labor organization in accordance with 22 U.S.C. 4118(c).
§ 1422.2
Contents of petition; filing and service of petition; challenges to petition.
(a)
Petition for exclusive recognition.
A petition by a labor organization for exclusive recognition shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the Board and shall contain the following:
(1) The name of the Department, its address, telephone number, and the persons to contact and their titles, if known;
(2) A description of the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112. Such description shall indicate the classifications of employees sought to be included and those sought to be excluded and the approximate number of employees in the unit;
(3) Name, address, and telephone number of the recognized or certified representative, if any, and the date of such recognition or certification and the expiration date of any applicable agreement, if known to the peititioner;
(4) Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of any other interested labor organizations, if known to the petitioner;
(5) Name and affiliation, if any, of the petitioner and its address and telephone number;
(6) A statement that the petitioner has submitted to the Department and to the Assistant Secretary a roster of its officers and representatives, a copy of its constitution and bylaws, and a statement of its objectives;
(7) A declaration by such person signing the petition, under the penalties of the Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 1001), that its contents are true and correct to the best of such person's knowledge and belief;
(8) The signature of the petitioner's representative, including such person's title and telephone number; and
(9) The petition shall be accompanied by a showing of interest of not less than thirty percent (30%) of the employees in the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112 and an alphabetical list of names constituting such showing.
(b)
Department petition seeking clarification of a matter relating to representation; employee petition for an election to determine whether a labor organization should cease to be an exclusive representative.
(1) A petition by the Department shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the Board and shall contain the information set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, except paragraphs (a) (6), and (9), and a statement that the Department has a good faith doubt, based on objective considerations, that the currently recognized or certified labor organization represents a majority of the employees in the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112. Attached to the petition shall be a detailed explanation of the reasons supporting the good faith doubt.
(2) A petition by any employee or employees or an individual acting on behalf of any employee(s) shall contain the information set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, except paragraphs (a) (6) and (9), and it shall be accompanied by a showing of interest of not less than thirty percent (30%) of the employees in the unit indicating that the employees no longer desire to be represented for the purposes of exclusive recognition by the currently recognized or certified labor organization and an alphabetical list of names constituting such showing.
(c)
Petition for clarification of unit or for amendment of recognition or certification.
A petition for clarification of unit or for amendment of recognition or certification shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the Board and shall contain the information required by paragraph (a) of this section, except paragraphs (a) (2), (6) and (9), and shall set forth:
(1) A description of the unit and the date of recognition or certification;
(2) The proposed clarification or amendment of the recognition or certification; and
(3) A statement of reasons why the proposed clarification or amendment is requested.
(d)
Petition for determination of eligibility for dues allotment.
A petition for determination of eligibility for dues allotment in the unit may be filed if there is no exclusive representative. The petition shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the Board and shall contain the information required in paragraphs (a) (1), (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) of this section, and shall set forth:
(1) A description of the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112. Such description shall indicate the classifications of employees sought to be included and those sought to be excluded and the approximate number of employees in the unit; and
(2) The petition shall be accompanied by a showing of membership in the petitioner of not less than ten percent (10%) of the employees in the unit and an alphabetical list of names constituting such showing.
(e)
Filing and service of petition and copies.
(1) A petition for exclusive recognition, for an election to determine if a labor organization should cease to be the exclusive representative, for clarification of unit, for amendment of
recognition or certification, or for determination of eligibility for dues allotment, filed pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), or (d) of this section respectively, shall be filed with the Regional Director for the region in which the unit exists, or, if the claimed unit exists in two or more regions, the petition shall be filed with the Regional Director for the region in which the affected employees are located.
(2) An original and four (4) copies of a petition shall be filed, together with a statement of any other relevant facts and of all correspondence relating to the question concerning representation.
(3) Copies of the petition together with any attachments shall be served by the petitioner on all known interested parties, and a written statement of such service shall be filed with the Regional Director:
Provided, however,
That the showing of interest or the showing of membership submitted with a petition filed pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b)(2), (d), or (h) of this section shall not furnished to any other person.
(f)
Adequacy and validity of showing of interest or showing of membership.
(1) The Regional Director shall determine the adequacy of the showing of interest or the showing of membership administratively, and such determination shall not be subject to collateral attack at a unit or representation hearing. If the petition is dismissed or the intervention sought pursuant to § 1422.5 is denied, a request for review of such dismissal or denial may be filed with the Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1422.6(d).
(2) Any party challenging the validity of any showing of interest or showing of membership of a petitioner, or a cross-petitioner filing pursuant to § 1422.5(b), or of a labor organization seeking to intervene pursuant to § 1422.5, must file its challenge with the Regional Director, with respect to the petitioner or a cross-petitioner, within twenty (20) days after the initial date of posting of the notice of petition as provided in § 1422.4(a), and with respect to any labor organization seeking to intervene, within twenty (20) days of service of a copy of the request for intervention on the challenging party. The challenge shall be supported with evidence including signed statements of employees and any other written evidence. The Regional Director shall investigate the challenge and thereafter shall take such action as the Regional Director deems appropriate which shall be final and not subject to review by the Board, unless the petition is dismissed or the intervention is denied on the basis of the challenge. Such request for review shall be filed with the Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1422.6(d).
(g)
Challenge to status of a labor organization.
Any party challenging the status of a labor organization under chapter 41 of title 22 of the United States Code must file its challenge with the Regional Director and support the challenge with evidence. With respect to the petitioner or a cross-petitioner filing pursuant to § 1422.5(b), such a challenge must be filed within twenty (20) days after the initial date of posting of the notice of petition as provided in § 1422.4(a), and with respect to a labor organization seeking to intervene pursuant to § 1422.5, within twenty (20) days after service of a copy of the request for intervention on the challenging party. The Regional Director shall investigate the challenge and thereafter shall take such action as the Regional Director deems appropriate, which shall be subject to review by the Board. Such request for review shall be filed with the Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1422.6(d).
§ 1422.3
Timeliness of petition.
(a) When there is no certified exclusive representative of the employees, a petition will be considered timely filed provided a valid election has not been held within the preceding twelve (12) month period in the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112.
(b) When there is a certified exclusive representative of the employees, a petition will not be considered timely if filed within twenty-four (24) months after the certification as the exclusive representative of employees in unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112, unless a signed and dated collective bargaining agreement covering the unit has been entered into in which case paragraphs
(c) and (d) of this section shall be applicable.
(c) When a collective bargaining agreement covering the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112 has been signed and dated by the Department and the incumbent exclusive representative, a petition for exclusive recognition or other election petition will not be considered timely if filed during the period of review by the Secretary as set forth in 22 U.S.C. 4113(f), absent unusual circumstances.
(d) A petition for exclusive recognition or other election petition will be considered timely when filed as follows:
(1) Not more than one hundred and five (105) days and not less than (60) days prior to the expiration date of a collective bargaining agreement having a term of three (3) years or less from the date it became effective.
(2) Not more than one hundred and five (105) days and not less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the initial three (3) year period of a collective bargaining agreement having a term of more than three (3) years from the date it became effective, and any time after the expiration of the initial three (3) year period of such a collective bargaining agreement; and
(3) Any time when unusual circumstances exist which substantially affect the unit or the majority representation.
(e) When a collective bargaining agreement having a term of three (3) years or less is in effect between the Department and the incumbent exclusive representative, and a petition has been filed challenging the representation status of the incumbent exclusive representative and the petition is subsequently withdrawn or dismissed less than sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date of that collective bargaining agreement, or any time thereafter, the Department and incumbent exclusive representative shall be afforded a ninety (90) day period from the date the withdrawal is approved or the petition is dismissed free from rival claim within which to consummate a collective bargaining agreement:
Provided, however,
That the provisions of this paragraph shall not be applicable when any other petition is pending which has been filed pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(f) When an extension of a collective bargaining agreement having a term of three (3) years or less has been signed more than sixty (60) days before its expiration date, such extension shall not serve as a basis for the denial of a petition submitted in accordance with the time limitations provided herein.
(g) Collective bargaining agreements which go into effect automatically pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 4113(f) and which do not contain the date on which the agreement became effective shall not constitute a bar to an election petition.
(h) A petitioner who withdraws a petition after the issuance of a notice of hearing or after the approval of an agreement for an election, shall be barred from filing another petition for the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112 for six (6) months, unless a withdrawal request has been received by the Regional Director not later than three (3) days before the date of the hearing.
(i) The time limits set forth in this section shall not apply to a petition for clarification of unit or for amendment of recognition or certification, or to a petition for dues allotment.
§ 1422.4
Investigation of petition and posting of notice of petition; action by Regional Director.
(a) Upon the request of the Regional Director, after the filing of a petition, the Department shall post copies of a notice to all employees in places where notices are normally posted affecting the employees in the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112.
(b) Such notice shall set forth:
(1) The name of the petitioner;
(2) The description of the unit;
(3) If appropriate, the proposed clarification of unit or the proposed amendment of recognition or certification; and
(4) A statement that all interested parties are to advise the Regional Director in writing of their interest and position within twenty (20) days after the date of posting of such notice:
Provided, however,
That the notice in a petition for determination of eligibility
for dues allotment shall contain the information required in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (4) of this section.
(c) The notice shall remain posted for a period of twenty (20) days. The notice shall be posted conspicuously and shall not be covered by other material, altered or defaced.
(d) The Department shall furnish the Regional Director and all known interested parties with the following:
(1) Names, addresses and telephone numbers of all labor organizations known to represent any of the employees in the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112;
(2) A copy of all relevant correspondence;
(3) A copy of existing or recently expired agreement(s) covering any of the employees described in the petition;
(4) A current alphabetized list of employees included in the unit, together with their job classifications; and
(5) A current alphabetized list of employees described in the petition as excluded from the unit, together with their job classifications.
(e) The parties are expected to meet as soon as possible after the expiration of the twenty (20) day posting period of the notice of petition as provided in paragraph (a) of this section and use their best efforts to secure agreement on the unit.
(f) The Regional Director shall make such investigation as the Regional Director deems necessary and thereafter shall take action which may consist of the following, as appropriate:
(1) Approve an agreement for consent election in the unit as provided under § 1422.7;
(2) Approve a withdrawal request;
(3) Dismiss the petition; or
(4) Issue a notice of hearing.
(g) In processing a petition for clarification of unit or for amendment of recognition or certification, or dues allotment, where appropriate, the Regional Director shall prepare and serve a report and findings upon all parties to the proceedings and shall state therein, among other pertinent matters, the Regional Director's conclusions and the action contemplated. A party may file with the Board a request for review of such action of the Regional Director in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1422.6(d). If no request for review is filed, or if one is filed and denied, the Regional Director shall take such action as may be appropriate, which may include issuing a clarification of unit or an amendment of recognition or certification, or determination of eligibility for dues allotment.
(h) A determination by the Regional Director to issue a notice of hearing shall not be subject to review by the Board.
§ 1422.5
Intervention.
(a) No labor organization will be permitted to intervene in any proceeding involving a petition filed pursuant to § 1422.2 (a) or (b) unless it has submitted to the Regional Director a showing of interest of ten percent (10%) or more of the employees in the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112 together with an alphabetical list of names constituting such showing, or has submitted a current or recently expired agreement with the Department covering any of the employees involved, or has submitted evidence that it is currently recognized or certified exclusive representative of any of the employees involved:
Provided, however,
That an incumbent exclusive representative shall be deemed to be an intervenor in the proceeding unless it serves on the Regional Director a written disclaimer of any representation interest for the employees involved:
Provided, further,
That any such incumbent exclusive representative that declines to sign an agreement for consent election because of a disagreement on the matters contained in § 1422.7(c) as decided by the Regional Director, or fails to appear at a hearing held pursuant to § 1422.9, shall be denied its status as an intervenor.
(b) No labor organization may participate to any extent in any representation proceeding unless it has notified the Regional Director in writing, accompanied by its showing of interest as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, of its desire to intervene within twenty (20) days after the initial date of posting of the notice of petition as provided in § 1422.4(a), unless good
cause is shown for extending the period. A copy of the request for intervention filed with the Regional Director, excluding the showing of interest, shall be served on all known interested parties, and a written statement of such service should be filed with the Regional Director:
Provided, however,
That an incumbent exclusive representative shall be deemed to be an intervenor in the proceeding in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Any labor organization seeking to intervene in a proceeding involving a petition for determination of eligibility for dues allotment filed pursuant to § 1422.2(d) may intervene solely on the basis it claims to be the exclusive representative of some or all the employees specified in the petition and shall submit to the Regional Director a current or recently expired agreement with the Department covering any of the employees involved, or evidence that it is the currently recognized or certified exclusive representative of any of the employees involved.
(d) Any labor organization seeking to intervene must submit to the Regional Director a statement that it has submitted to the Department and to the Assistant Secretary a roster of its officers and representatives, a copy of its constitution and bylaws, and a statement of its objectives.
(e) The Regional Director may grant intervention to a labor organization in a proceeding involving a petition for clarification of unit or a petition for amendment of recognition or certification filed pursuant to § 1422.2(c), or a petition for determination of eligibility for dues allotment filed pursuant to § 1422.2(d), based on a showing that the proposed clarification, amendment or dues allotment affects that labor organizations's existing exclusively recognized unit(s) in that it would cover one or more employees who are included in such unit(s).
§ 1422.6
Withdrawal, dismissal or deferral of petitions; consolidation of cases; denial of intervention; review of action by Regional Director.
(a) If the Regional Director determines, after such investigation as the Regional Director deems necessary, that the petition has not been timely filed, the unit is not as described in 22 U.S.C. 4114, the petitioner has not made a sufficient showing of interest, the petition is not otherwise actionable, or an intervention is not appropriate, the Regional Director may request the petitioner or intervenor to withdraw the petition or the request for intervention. In the absence of such withdrawal within a reasonable period of time, the Regional Director may dismiss the petition or deny the request for intervention.
(b) If the Regional Director determines, after investigation, that a valid issue has been raised by a challenge under § 1422.2 (f) or (g), the Regional Director may take action which may consist of the following, as appropriate:
(1) Request the petitioner or intervenor to withdraw the petition or the request for intervention;
(2) Dismiss the petition and/or deny the request for intervention if a withdrawal request is not submitted within a reasonable period of time;
(3) Defer action on the petition or request for intervention until such time as issues raised by the challenges have been resolved pursuant to this part; or
(4) Consolidate such issues with the representation matter for resolution of all issues.
(c) If the Regional Director dismisses the petition and/or denies the request for intervention, the Regional Director shall serve on the petitioner or the party requesting intervention a written statement of the grounds for the dismissal or the denial, and serve a copy of such statement on the Department, and on the petitioner and any intervenors, as appropriate.
(d) The petitioner or party requesting intervention may obtain a review of such dismissal and/or denial by filing a request for review with the Board within twenty-five (25) days after service of the notice of such action. Copies of the request for review shall be served on the Regional Director and the other parties, and a statement of service shall be filed with the request for review. Requests for extensions of time shall be in writing and received by the Board not later than five (5) days before the date the request for review is due. The request for review shall contain a complete statement setting
forth facts and reasons upon which the request is based. Any party may file an opposition to a request for review with the Board within ten (10) days after service of the request for review. Copies of the opposition to the request for review shall be served on the Regional Director and the other parties, and a statement of service shall be filed with the opposition to the request for review. The Board may issue a decision or ruling affirming or reversing the Regional Director in whole or in part or making any other disposition of the matter as it deems appropriate.
§ 1422.7
Agreement for consent election.
(a) All parties desiring to participate in an election being conducted pursuant to this section or § 1422.16, including intervenors who have met the requirements of § 1422.5, must sign an agreement providing for such an election on a form prescribed by the Board. An original and one (1) copy of the agreement shall be filed with the Regional Director.
(b) The Department, a petitioner, and any intervenors who have complied with the requirements set forth in § 1422.5 may agree that a secret ballot election shall be conducted among the employees in the unit to determine whether the employees desire to be represented for purposes of exclusive recognition by any or none of the labor organizations involved.
(c) The parties shall agree on the eligibility period for participation in the election, the date(s), hour(s), and place(s) of the election, the designations on the ballot and other related election procedures.
(d) In the event that the parties cannot agree on the matters contained in paragraph (c) of this section, the Regional Director, acting on behalf of the Board, shall decide these matters without prejudice to the right of a party to file objections to the procedural conduct of the election under § 1422.20(b).
(e) If the Regional Director approves the agreement, the election shall be conducted by the Department, as appropriate, under the supervision of the Regional Director, in accordance with § 1422.17.
(f) Any qualified intervenor who refuses to sign an agreement for an election may express its objections to the agreement in writing to the Regional Director. The Regional Director, after careful consideration of such objections, may approve the agreement or take such other action as the Regional Director deems appropriate.
§ 1422.8
Notice of hearing; contents; attachments; procedures.
(a) The Regional Director may cause a notice of hearing to be issued involving any matters related to the petition.
(b) The notice of hearing shall be served on all interested parties and shall include:
(1) The name of the Department, petitioner, and intervenors, if any;
(2) A statement of the time and place of the hearing, which shall be not less than twenty (20) days after service of the notice of hearing, except in extraordinary circumstances;
(3) A statement of the nature of the hearing; and
(4) A statement of the authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held.
(c) A copy of the petition shall be attached to the notice of hearing.
(d) Hearings on matters related to the petition pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer in accordance with §§ 1422.9 through 1422.15.
§ 1422.9
Conduct of hearing.
(a) Hearings shall be conducted by a Hearing Officer and shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the Hearing Officer. At any time another Hearing Officer may be substituted for the Hearing Officer previously presiding. It shall be the duty of the Hearing Officer to inquire fully into all matters in issue and the Hearing Officer shall obtain a full and complete record upon which the Board can make an appropriate decision. An official reporter shall make the only official transcript of such proceedings. Copies of the official transcript may be examined in the appropriate regional office during normal working hours. Requests by parties for copies of transcripts should be made to the official hearing reporter.
(b) Hearings under this section are considered investigatory and not adversary. Their purpose is to develop a full and complete factual record. The rules of relevancy and materiality are paramount; there are no burdens of proof and the technical rules of evidence do not apply.
§ 1422.10
Motions.
(a)
General.
(1) A motion shall state briefly the order or relief sought and the grounds for the motion:
Provided, however,
That a motion to intervene will not be entertained by the Hearing Officer. Intervention will be permitted only to those who have met the requirements of § 1422.5.
(2) A motion prior to, and after a hearing and any response thereto, shall be made in writing. A response shall be filed within five (5) days after service of the motion. An original and two (2) copies of such motion and any response thereto shall be filed and copies shall be served on the parties and the Regional Director. A statement of such service shall be filed with the original.
(3) During a hearing a motion may be made and responded to orally on the record.
(4) The right to make motions, or to make objections to rulings on motions, shall not be deemed waived by participation in the proceeding.
(5) All motions, rulings, and orders shall become part of the record.
(b)
Filing of motions.
(1) Motions and responses thereto prior to a hearing shall be filed with the Regional Director. During the hearing motions shall be made to the Hearing Officer.
(2) After the transfer of the case to the Board, except as otherwise provided, motions and responses thereto shall be filed with the Board:
Provided,
That following the close of a hearing, motions to correct the transcript should be filed with the Hearing Officer within ten (10) days after the transcript is received in the regional office.
(c)
Rulings on motions.
(1) Regional Directors may rule on all motions filed with them, or they may refer them to the Hearing Officer. A ruling by a Regional Director granting a motion to dismiss a petition may be reviewed by the Board upon the filing by the petitioner of a request for review pursuant to § 1422.6(d).
(2) Hearing Officers shall rule, either orally on the record or in writing, on all motions made at the hearing or referred to them, except that a motion to dismiss a petition shall be referred for appropriate action at such time as the record is considered by the Regional Director or the Board. Rulings by a Hearing Officer reduced to writing shall be served on the parties.
(3) The Board shall consider the rulings by the Regional Director and the Hearing Officer when the case is transferred to it for decision.
§ 1422.11
Rights of the parties.
(a) A party shall have the right to appear at any hearing in person, by counsel, or by other representative, and to examine and cross-examine witnesses, and to introduce into the record documentary or other relevant evidence. Two (2) copies of documentary evidence shall be submitted and a copy furnished to each of the other parties. Stipulations of fact may be introduced in evidence with respect to any issue.
(b) A party shall be entitled, upon request, to a reasonable period at the close of the hearing for oral argument, which shall be included in the stenographic report of the hearing. Such oral argument shall not preclude a party from filing a brief under § 1422.14.
§ 1422.12
Duties and powers of the Hearing Officer.
It shall be the duty of Hearing Officers to inquire fully into the facts as they relate to the matters before them. With respect to cases assigned to them between the time they are designated and the transfer of the case to the Board, Hearing Officers shall have the authority to:
(a) Grant requests for subpenas pursuant to § 1429.7 of this subchapter;
(b) Rule upon offers of proof and receive relevant evidence and stipulations of fact;
(c) Take or cause depositions or interrogatories to be taken whenever the ends of justice would be served thereby;
(d) Limit lines of questioning or testimony which are immaterial, irrelevant or unduly repetitious;
(e) Regulate the course of the hearing and, if appropriate, exclude from the hearing persons who engage in misconduct;
(f) Strike all related testimony of witnesses refusing to answer any questions ruled to be proper;
(g) Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by consent of the parties or upon the Hearing Officer's own motion;
(h) Dispose of procedural requests, motions, or similar matters, which shall be made part of the record of the proceedings, including motions referred to the Hearing Officer by the Regional Director and motions to amend petitions;
(i) Call and examine and cross-examine witnesses and introduce into the record documentary or other evidence;
(j) Request the parties at any time during the hearing to state their respective positions concerning any issue in the case or theory in support thereof;
(k) Continue the hearing from day-to-day, or adjourn it to a later date or to a different place, by announcement thereof at the hearing or by other appropriate notice;
(l) Rule on motions to correct the transcript which are received within ten (10) days after the transcript is received in the regional office; and
(m) Take any other action necessary under this section and not prohibited by the regulations in this subchapter.
§ 1422.13
Objections to conduct of hearing.
Any objection to the introduction of evidence may be stated orally or in writing and shall be accompanied by a short statement of the grounds of such objection, and be included in the record. No such objection shall be deemed waived by further participation in the hearing. Automatic exceptions will be allowed to all adverse rulings.
§ 1422.14
Filing of briefs.
A party desiring to file a brief with the Board shall file the original and three (3) copies within thirty (30) days from the close of the hearing. Copies thereof shall be served on all other parties to the proceeding. Requests for additional time in which to file a brief under authority of this section shall be made to the Regional Director, in writing, and copies thereof shall be served on the other parties and a statement of such service shall be filed with the Regional Director. Requests for extension of time shall be in writing and received not later than five (5) days before the date such briefs are due. No reply brief may be filed in any proceeding except by special permission of the Board.
§ 1422.15
Transfer of case to the Board; contents of record.
Upon the close of the hearing the case is transferred automatically to the Board. The record of the proceeding shall include the petition, notice of hearing, service sheet, motions, rulings, orders, official transcript of the hearing with any corrections thereto, stipulations, objections, depositions, interrogatories, exhibits, documentary evidence, and any briefs or other documents submitted by the parties.
§ 1422.16
Decision.
The Board will issue a decision directing an election or dismissing the petition, or making other disposition of the matters before it.
§ 1422.17
Election procedure; request for authorized representation election observers.
This section governs all elections conducted under the supervision of the Regional Director pursuant to § 1422.7 or § 1422.16. The Regional Director may conduct elections in unusual circumstances in accordance with terms and conditions set forth in the notice of election.
(a) Appropriate notices of election shall be posted by the Department. Such notices shall set forth the details and procedures for the election, the unit described in 22 U.S.C. 4112, the eligibility period, the date(s), hour(s) and place(s) of the election and shall contain a sample ballot.
(b) The reproduction of any document purporting to be a copy of the official ballot, other than one completely unaltered in form and content and clearly marked “sample” on its face,
which suggests either directly or indirectly to employees that the Board endorses a particular choice, may constitute grounds for setting aside an election upon objections properly filed.
(c) All elections shall be by secret ballot. An exclusive representative shall be chosen by a majority of the valid ballots cast.
(d) Whenever two or more labor organizations are included as choices in an election, any intervening labor organization may request the Regional Director to remove its name from the ballot. The request must be in writing and received not later than seven (7) days before the date of the election. Such request shall be subject to the approval of the Regional Director whose decision shall be final.
(e) In a proceeding involving an election to determine if a labor organization should cease to be the exclusive representative filed by the Department or any employee or employees or an individual acting on behalf of any employee(s) under § 1422.2(b), an organization currently recognized or certified may not have its name removed from the ballot without having served the written request submitted pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section on all parties. Such request shall contain an express disclaimer of any representation interest among the employees in the unit.
(f) Any party may be represented at the polling place(s) by observers of its own selection, subject to such limitations as the Regional Director may prescribe.
(g) A party's request to the Regional Director for named observers shall be in writing and filed with the Regional Director not less than fifteen (15) days prior to an election to be supervised or conducted pursuant to this part. The request shall name and identify the authorized representation election observers sought, and state the reasons therefor. Copies thereof shall be served on the other parties and a written statement of such service shall be filed with the Regional Director. Within five (5) days after service of a copy of the request, a party may file objections to the request with the Regional Director and state the reasons therefor. Copies thereof shall be served on the other parties and a written statement of such service shall be filed with the Regional Director. The Regional Director shall rule upon the request not later than five (5) days prior to the date of the election. However, for good cause shown by a party, or on the Regional Director's own motion, the Regional Director may vary the time limits prescribed in this paragraph.
§ 1422.18
Challenged ballots.
Any party or the representative of the Board may challenge, for good cause, the eligibility of any person to participate in the election. The ballots of such challenged persons shall be impounded.
§ 1422.19
Tally of ballots.
Upon the conclusion of the election, the Regional Director shall cause to be furnished to the parties a tally of ballots.
§ 1422.20
Certification; objections to election; determination on objections and challenged ballots.
(a) The Regional Director shall issue to the parties a certification of results of the election or a certification of representative, where appropriate:
Provided, however,
That no objections are filed within the time limit set forth below; the challenged ballots are insufficient in number to affect the results of the election; and no rerun election is to be held.
(b) Within twenty (20) days after the tally of ballots has been furnished, a party may file objections to the procedural conduct of the election, or to conduct which may have improperly affected the results of the election, setting forth a clear and concise statement of the reasons therefor. The objecting party shall bear the burden of proof at all stages of the proceeding regarding all matters raised in its objections. An original and two (2) copies of the objections shall be filed with the Regional Director and copies shall be served on the parties. A statement of such service shall be filed with the Regional Director. Such filing must be timely whether or not the challenged ballots are sufficient in number to affect the results of the election. Within
ten (10) days after the filing of the objections, unless an extension of time has been granted by the Regional Director, the objecting party shall file with the Regional Director evidence, including signed statements, documents and other material supporting the objections.
(c) If objections are filed or challenged ballots are sufficient in number to affect the results of the election, the Regional Director shall investigate the objections or challenged ballots, or both.
(d) When the Regional Director determines that no relevant question of fact exists, the Regional Director (1) shall find whether improper conduct occurred of such a nature as to warrant the setting aside of the election and, if so, indicate an intention to set aside the election, or (2) shall rule on determinative challenged ballots, if any, or both. The Regional Director shall issue a report and findings on objections and/or challenged ballots which shall be served upon all parties to the proceeding. Such report and findings shall state therein any additional pertinent matters such as an intent to rerun the election or count ballots at a specified date, time, and place, and if appropriate, that the Regional Director will cause to be issued a revised tally of ballots.
(e) When the Regional Director determines that no relevant question of fact exists, but that a substantial question of interpretation or policy exists, the Regional Director shall notify the parties in the report and findings and transfer the case to the Board in accordance with of this subchapter.
(f) Any party aggrieved by the findings of a Regional Director with respect to objections to an election or challenged ballots may obtain a review of such action by the Board by following the procedure set forth in § 1422.6(d) of this subchapter:
Provided, however,
That a determination by the Regional Director to issue a notice of hearing shall not be subject to review by the Board.
(g) Where it appears to the Regional Director that the objections or challenged ballots raise any relevant question of fact which may have affected the results of the election, the Regional Director shall cause to be issued a notice of hearing. Hearings shall be conducted and decisions issued by Administrative Law Judges and exceptions and related submissions filed with the Board in accordance with §§ 1423.14 through 1423.28 of this subchapter excluding § 1423.18 and § 1423.19(j), with the following exceptions:
(1) The Administrative Law Judge may not recommend remedial action to be taken or notices to be posted, as provided under § 1423.26(a); and
(2) Reference to “charge, complaint” in § 1423.26(b) shall be read as “report and findings of the Regional Director.”
(h) At a hearing conducted pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section the party filing the objections shall have the burden of proving all matters alleged in its objections by a preponderance of the evidence. With respect to challenged ballots, no burden of proof is imposed on any party.
(i) The Board shall take action which may consist of the following, as appropriate:
(1) Issue a decision adopting, modifying, or rejecting the Administrative Law Judge's decision;
(2) Issue a decision in any case involving a substantial question of interpretation or policy transferred pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section; or
(3) Issue a ruling with respect to a request for review filed pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section affirming or reversing, in whole or in part, the Regional Director's findings, or make such other disposition as may be appropriate.
§ 1422.21
Preferential voting.
In any election in which more than two choices are on the ballot and no choice receives a majority of first preferences the Board shall distribute to the two choices having the most first preferences the preferences as between those two of the other valid ballots cast. The choice receiving a majority of preferences shall be declared the winner. A labor organization which is declared the winner of the election shall be certified by the Board as the exclusive representative.
§ 1422.22
Inconclusive elections.
(a) An inconclusive election is one in which none of the choices on the ballot is declared the winner. If there are no challenged ballots that would affect the results of the election, the Regional Director may declare the election a nullity and may order another election providing for a selection from among the choices afforded in the previous ballot.
(b) Only one further election pursuant to this section may be held.
Pt. 1423

# PART 1423—UNFAIR LABOR PRACTICE PROCEEDINGS
Sec.
1423.1
Applicability of this part.
1423.2
Informal proceedings.
1423.3
Who may file charges.
1423.4
Contents of the charge; supporting evidence and documents.
1423.5
Selection of the unfair labor practice procedure or the negotiability procedure.
1423.6
Filing and service of copies.
1423.7
Investigation of charges.
1423.8
Amendment of charges.
1423.9
Action by the Regional Director.
1423.10
Determination not to issue complaint; review of action by the Regional Director.
1423.11
Settlement or adjustment of issues.
1423.12
Issuance and contents of the complaint.
1423.13
Answer to the complaint; extension of time for filing; amendment.
1423.14
Conduct of hearing.
1423.15
Intervention.
1423.16
Rights of parties.
1423.17
Rules of evidence.
1423.18
Burden of proof before the Administrative Law Judge.
1423.19
Duties and powers of the Administrative Law Judge.
1423.20
Unavailability of Administrative Law Judges.
1423.21
Objection to conduct of hearing.
1423.22
Motions.
1423.23
Waiver of objections.
1423.24
Oral argument at the hearing.
1423.25
Filing of brief.
1423.26
Transmittal of the Administrative Law Judge's decision to the Board; exceptions.
1423.27
Contents of exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge's decision.
1423.28
Briefs in support of exceptions; oppositions to exceptions; cross-exceptions.
1423.29
Action by the Board.
1423.30
Compliance with decisions and orders of the Board.
1423.31
Backpay proceedings.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107.

# Source:
46 FR 45868, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1423.1
Applicability of this part.
This part is applicable to any charge of alleged unfair labor practices filed with the Board on or after February 15, 1981.
§ 1423.2
Informal proceedings.
(a) The purposes and policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute can best be achieved by the cooperative efforts of all persons covered by the program. To this end, it shall be the policy of the Board and the General Counsel to encourage all persons alleging unfair labor practices and persons against whom such allegations are made to meet and, in good faith, attempt to resolve such matters prior to the filing of unfair labor practice charges with the Board.
(b) In furtherance of the policy referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, and noting the six (6) month period of limitation set forth in 22 U.S.C. 4116(d), it shall be the policy of the Board and the General Counsel to encourage the informal resolution of unfair labor practice allegations subsequent to the filing of a charge and prior to the issuance of a complaint by the Regional Director.
§ 1423.3
Who may file charges.
The Department or labor organization may be charged by any person with having engaged in or engaging in any unfair labor practice prohibited under 22 U.S.C. 4115.
§ 1423.4
Contents of the charge; supporting evidence and documents.
(a) A charge alleging a violation of 22 U.S.C. 4115 shall be submitted on forms prescribed by the Board and shall contain the following:
(1) The name, address and telephone number of the person(s) making the charge;
(2) The name, address and telephone number of the Department or labor organization against whom the charge is made;
(3) A clear and concise statement of the facts constituting the alleged unfair labor practice, a statement of the
section(s) and subsection(s) of chapter 41 of title 22 of the United States Code alleged to have been violated, and the date and place of occurrence of the particular acts; and
(4) A statement of any other procedure invoked involving the subject matter of the charge and the results, if any, including whether the subject matter raised in the charge (i) has been raised previously in a grievance procedure; (ii) has been referred to the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel or the Foreign Service Grievance Board for consideration or action; or (iii) involves a negotiability issue raised by the charging party in a petition pending before the Board pursuant to part 1424 of this subchapter.
(b) Such charge shall be in writing and signed and shall contain a declaration by the person signing the charge, under the penalties of the Criminal Code (18 U.S.C. 1001), that its contents are true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief.
(c) When filing a charge, the charging party shall submit to the Regional Director any supporting evidence and documents.
§ 1423.5
Selection of the unfair labor practice procedure or the negotiability procedure.
(a) Where a labor organization files an unfair labor practice charge pursuant to this part which involves a negotiability issue, and the labor organization also files pursuant to part 1424 of this subchapter a petition for review of the same negotiability issue, the Board and the General Counsel ordinarily will not process the unfair labor practice charge and the petition for review simultaneously.
(b) Under such circumstances, the labor organization must select under which procedure to proceed. Upon selection of one procedure, further action under the other procedure will ordinarily be suspended. Such selection must be made regardless of whether the unfair labor practice charge or the petition for review of a negotiability issue is filed first. Notification of this selection must be made in writing at the time that both procedures have been invoked, and must be served on the Board, the appropriate Regional Director and all parties to both the unfair labor practice case and the negotiability case.
(c) Cases which solely involve an agency's allegation that the duty to bargain in good faith does not extend to the matter proposed to be bargained and which do not involve actual or contemplated changes in conditions of employment may only be filed under part 1424 of this subchapter.
§ 1423.6
Filing and service of copies.
(a) An original and four (4) copies of the charge together with one copy for each additional charged party named shall be filed with the Regional Director for the region in which the alleged unfair labor practice has occurred or is occurring. A charge alleging that an unfair labor practice has occurred or is occurring in two or more regions may be filed with the Regional Director for any such region.
(b) Upon the filing of a charge, the charging party shall be responsible for the service of a copy of the charge (without the supporting evidence and documents) upon the person(s) against whom the charge is made, and for filing a written statement of such service with the Regional Director. The Regional Director will, as a matter of course, cause a copy of such charge to be served on the person(s) against whom the charge is made, but shall not be deemed to assume responsibility for such service.
§ 1423.7
Investigation of charges.
(a) The Regional Director, on behalf of the General Counsel, shall conduct such investigation of the charge as the Regional Director deems necessary.
(b) During the course of the investigation all parties involved will have an opportunity to present their evidence and views to the Regional Director.
(c) In connection with the investigation of charges, all persons are expected to cooperate fully with the Regional Director.
(d) The purposes and policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute can best be achieved by the full cooperation of all parties involved and the voluntary submission of all potentially relevant information
from all potential sources during the course of the investigation. To this end, it shall be the policy of the Board and the General Counsel to protect the identity of individuals and the substance of the statements and information they submit or which is obtained during the investigation as a means of assuring the Board's and the General Counsel's continuing ability to obtain all relevant information.
§ 1423.8
Amendment of charges.
Prior to the issuance of a complaint, the charging party may amend the charge in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 1423.6.
§ 1423.9
Action by the Regional Director.
(a) The Regional Director shall take action which may consist of the following, as appropriate:
(1) Approve a request to withdraw a charge;
(2) Refuse to issue a complaint;
(3) Approve a written settlement agreement in accordance with the provisions of § 1423.11;
(4) Issue a complaint;
(5) Upon agreement of all parties, transfer to the Board for decision, after issuance of a complaint, a stipulation of facts in accordance with the provisions of § 1429.1(a) this subchapter; or
(6) Withdraw a complaint.
(b) Parties may request the General Counsel to seek appropriate temporary relief (including a restraining order) under 22 U.S.C. 4109(d). The General Counsel will initiate and prosecute injunctive proceedings under 22 U.S.C. 4109(d) only upon approval of the Board. A determination by the General Counsel not to seek approval of the Board for such temporary relief is final and may not be applied to the Board.
(c) Upon a determination to issue a complaint, whenever it is deemed advisable by the Board to seek appropriate temporary relief (including a restraining order) under 22 U.S.C. 4109(d), the Regional Attorney or other designated agent of the Board to whom the matter has been referred will make application for appropriate temporary relief (including a restraining order) in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Such temporary relief will not be sought unless the record establishes probable cause that an unfair labor practice is being committed, or if such temporary relief will interfere with the ability of the Department to carry out its essential functions.
(d) Whenever temporary relief has been obtained pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 4109(d) and thereafter the Administrative Law Judge hearing the complaint, upon which the determination to seek such temporary relief was predicated, recommends dismissal of such complaint, in whole or in part, the Regional Attorney or other designated agent of the Board handling the case for the Board shall inform the United States District Court for the District of Columbia of the possible change in circumstances arising out of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
§ 1423.10
Determination not to issue complaint; review of action by the Regional Director.
(a) If the Regional Director determines that the charge has not been timely filed, that the charge fails to state an unfair labor practice, or for other appropriate reasons, the Regional Director may request the charging party to withdraw the charge, and in the absence of such withdrawal within a reasonable time, decline to issue a complaint.
(b) If the Regional Director determines not to issue a complaint on a charge which is not withdrawn, the Regional Director shall provide the parties with a written statement of the reasons for not issuing a complaint.
(c) The charging party may obtain a review of the Regional Director's decision not to issue a complaint by filing an appeal with the General Counsel within twenty-five (25) days after service of the Regional Director's decision. The appeal shall contain a complete statement setting forth the facts and reasons upon which it is based. A copy of the appeal shall also be filed with the Regional Director. In addition, the charging party should notify all other parties of the fact that an appeal has been taken, but any failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of the appeal.
(d) A request for extension of time to file an appeal shall be in writing and received by the General Counsel not later than five (5) days before the date the appeal is due. The charging party should notify the Regional Director and all other parties that it has requested an extension of time in which to file an appeal, but any failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of its request for an extension of time to file an appeal.
(e) The General Counsel may sustain the Regional Director's refusal to issue or re-issue a complaint, stating the grounds of affirmance, or may direct the Regional Director to take further action. The General Counsel's decision shall be served on all the parties. The decision of the General Counsel shall be final.
§ 1423.11
Settlement or adjustment of issues.

# general settlement policy
(a) At any stage of a proceeding prior to hearing, where time, the nature of the proceeding, and the public interest permit, all interested parties shall have the opportunity to submit to the Regional Director with whom the charge was filed, for consideration, all facts and arguments concerning offers of settlement, or proposals of adjustment.

# precomplaint informal settlements
(b)(1) Prior to the issuance of any complaint or the taking of other formal action, the Regional Director will afford the charging party and the respondent a reasonable period of time in which to enter into an informal settlement agreement to be approved by the Regional Director. Upon approval by the Regional Director and compliance with the terms of the informal settlement agreement, no further action shall be taken in the case. If the respondent fails to perform its obligations under the informal settlement agreement, the Regional Director may determine to institute further proceedings.
(2) In the event that the charging party fails or refuses to become a party to an informal settlement agreement offered by the respondent, if the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the agreement shall be between the respondent and the Regional Director and the latter shall decline to issue a complaint. The charging party may obtain a review of the Regional Director's action by filing an appeal with the General Counsel in accordance with § 1423.10(c). The General Counsel shall take action on such appeal as set forth in § 1423.10(e).

# post complaint settlement policy
(c) Consistent with the policy reflected in paragraph (a) of this section, even after the issuance of a complaint, the Board favors the settlement of issues. Such settlements may be either informal or formal. Informal settlement agreements shall be accomplished as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. Formal settlement agreements are subject to the approval of the Board. In such formal settlement agreements, the parties shall agree to waive their right to a hearing and agree further that the Board may issue an order requiring the respondent to take action appropriate to the terms of the settlement. Ordinarily the formal settlement agreement also contains the respondent's consent to the Board application for the entry of a decree by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia enforcing the Board's order.

# post complaint—prehearing formal settlements
(d)(1) If, after issuance of a complaint but before opening of the hearing, the charging party and the respondent enter into a formal settlement agreement, and such agreement is accepted by the Regional Director, the formal settlement agreement shall be submitted to the Board for approval.
(2) If, after issuance of a complaint but before opening of the hearing, the charging party fails or refuses to become a party to a formal settlement agreement offered by the respondent, and the Regional Director concludes
that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the agreement shall be between the respondent and the Regional Director. The charging party will be so informed and provided a brief written statement by the Regional Director of the reasons therefor. The formal settlement agreement together with the charging party's objections, if any, and the Regional Director's written statements, shall be submitted to the Board for approval. The Board may approve or disapprove any formal settlement agreement or return the case to the Regional Director for other appropriate action.

# post complaint—prehearing informal settlements
(3) After the issuance of a complaint but before opening of the hearing, if the Regional Director concludes that it will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the Regional Director may withdraw the complaint and approve an informal settlement agreement pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

# informal settlements after the opening of the hearing
(e)(1) After issuance of a complaint and after opening of the hearing, if the Regional Director concludes that it will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the Regional Director may request the Administrative Law Judge for permission to withdraw the complaint and, having been granted such permission to withdraw the complaint, may approve an informal settlement pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

# formal settlements after the opening of the hearing
(2) If, after issuance of a complaint and after opening of the hearing, the parties enter into a formal settlement agreement, the Regional Director may request the Administrative Law Judge to approve such formal settlement agreement, and upon such approval, to transmit the agreement to the Board for approval.
(3) If the charging party fails or refuses to become a party to a formal settlement agreement offered by the respondent, and the Regional Director concludes that the offered settlement will effectuate the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute, the agreement shall be between the respondent and the Regional Director. After the charging party is given an opportunity to state on the record or in writing the reasons for opposing the formal settlement, the Regional Director may request the Administrative Law Judge to approve such formal settlement agreement, and upon such approval, to transmit the agreement to the Board for approval. The Board may approve or disapprove any formal settlement agreement or return the case to the Administrative Law Judge for another appropriate action.
§ 1423.12
Issuance and contents of the complaint.
(a) After a charge is filed, if it appears to the Regional Director that formal proceedings in respect thereto should be instituted, the Regional Director shall issue and cause to be served on all other parties a formal complaint:
Provided, however,
That a determination by a Regional Director to issue a complaint shall not be subject to review.
(b) The complaint shall include:
(1) Notice of the charge;
(2) Notice that a hearing will be held before an Adminsitrative Law Judge;
(3) Notice of the time and place fixed for the hearing which shall not be earlier than five (5) days after service of the complaint;
(4) A statement of the nature of the hearing;
(5) A clear and concise statement of the facts upon which assertion of jurisdiction by the Board is predicated;
(6) A reference to the particular sections of chapter 41 of title 22 of the United States Code and the rules and regulations involved; and
(7) A clear and concise description of the acts which are claimed to constitute unfair labor practices, including, where known, the approximate
dates and places of such acts and the names of respondent's agents or other representatives by whom committed.
(c) The Chief Administrative Law Judge may, upon such judge's own motion or upon proper cause shown by any other party, extend the date of the hearing or may change the place at which it is to be held.
(d) A complaint may be amended, upon such terms as may be deemed just, prior to the hearing, by the Regional Director issuing the complaint; at the hearing and until the case has been transmitted to the Board pursuant to § 1423.26, upon motion by the Administrative Law Judge designated to conduct the hearing; and after the case has been transmitted to the Board pursuant to § 1423.26, upon motion by the Board at any time prior to the issuance of an order based thereon by the Board.
(e) Any such complaint may be withdrawn before the hearing by the Regional Director.
§ 1423.13
Answer to the complaint; extension of time for filing; amendment.
(a) Except in extraordinary circumstances as determined by the Regional Director, within twenty (20) days after the complaint is served upon the respondent, the respondent shall file the original and four (4) copies of the answer thereto, signed by the respondent or its representative, with the Regional Director who issued the complaint. The respondent shall serve a copy of the answer on the Chief Administrative Law Judge and on all other parties.
(b) The answer: (1) Shall specifically admit, deny, or explain each of the allegations of the complaint unless the respondent is without knowledge, in which case the answer shall so state; or (2) Shall state that the respondent admits all of the allegations in the complaint. Failure to file an answer or to plead specifically to or explain any allegation shall constitute an admission of such allegation and shall be so found by the Board, unless good cause to the contrary is shown.
(c) Upon the Regional Director's own motion or upon proper cause shown by any other party, the Regional Director issuing the complaint may by written order extend the time within which the answer shall be filed.
(d) The answer may be amended by the respondent at any time prior to the hearing. During the hearing or subsequent thereto, the answer may be amended in any case where the complaint has been amended, within such period as may be fixed by the Administrative Law Judge or the Board. Whether or not the complaint has been amended, the answer may, in the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge or the Board, upon motion, be amended upon such terms and within such periods as may be fixed by the Administrative Law Judge or the Board.
§ 1423.14
Conduct of hearing.
(a) Hearings shall be conducted not earlier than five (5) days after the date on which the complaint is served. The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the Administrative Law Judge. A substitute Administrative Law Judge may be designated at any time to take the place of the Administrative Law Judge previously designated to conduct the hearing. Such hearing shall, to the extent practicable, be conducted in accordance with the provisions of subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5 of the United States Code, except that the parties shall not be bound by the rules of evidence, whether statutory, common law, or adopted by a court.
(b) An official reporter shall make the only official transcript of such proceedings. Copies of the official transcript may be examined in the appropriate regional office during normal working hours. Requests by parties for copies of transcripts should be made to the official hearing reporter.
§ 1423.15
Intervention.
Any person involved and desiring to intervene in any proceeding pursuant to this part shall file a motion in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 1423.22. The motion shall state the grounds upon which such person claims involvement.
§ 1423.16
Rights of parties.
A party shall have the right to appear at any hearing in person, by counsel, or by other representative, and to
examine and cross-examine witnesses, and to introduce into the record documentary or other relevant evidence, and to submit rebuttal evidence, except that the participation of any party shall be limited to the extent prescribed by the Administrative Law Judge. Two (2) copies of documentary evidence shall be submitted and a copy furnished to each of the other parties. Stipulations of fact may be introduced in evidence with respect to any issue.
§ 1423.17
Rules of evidence.
The parties shall not be bound by the rules of evidence, whether statutory, common law, or adopted by court. Any evidence may be received, except that an Administrative Law Judge may exclude any evidence which is immaterial, irrelevant, unduly repetitious or customarily privileged.
§ 1423.18
Burden of proof before the Administrative Law Judge.
The General Counsel shall have the responsibility of presenting the evidence in support of the complaint and shall have the burden of proving the allegations of the complaint by a preponderance of the evidence.
§ 1423.19
Duties and powers of the Administrative Law Judge.
It shall be the duty of the Administrative Law Judge to inquire fully into the facts as they relate to the matter before such judge. Subject to the rules and regulations of the Board and the General Counsel, an Administrative Law Judge presiding at a hearing may:
(a) Grant requests for subpoenas pursuant to § 1429.7 of this subchapter;
(b) Rule upon petitions to revoke subpoenas pursuant to § 1429.7 of this subchapter;
(c) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(d) Take or order the taking of a deposition whenever the ends of justice would be served thereby;
(e) Order responses to written interrogatories whenever the ends of justice would be served thereby unless it would interfere with the Board's and the General Counsel's policy of protecting the personal privacy and confidentiality of sources of information as set forth in § 1423.7(d);
(f) Call, examine and cross-examine witnesses and introduce into the record documentary or other evidence;
(g) Rule upon offers of proof and receive relevant evidence and stipulations of fact with respect to any issue;
(h) Limit lines of questioning or testimony which are immaterial, irrelevant, unduly repetitious, or customarily privileged;
(i) Regulate the course of the hearing and, if appropriate, exclude from the hearing persons who engage in contemptuous conduct and strike all related testimony of witnesses refusing to answer any questions ruled to be proper;
(j) Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues by consent of the parties or upon the judge's own motion;
(k) Dispose of procedural requests, motions, or similar matters, including motions referred to the Administrative Law Judge by the Regional Director and motions for summary judgment or to amend pleadings; dismiss complaints or portions thereof; order hearings reopened; and, upon motion, order proceedings consolidated or severed prior to issuance of the Administrative Law Judge's decision;
(l) Request the parties at any time during the hearing to state their respective positions concerning any issue in the case or theory in support thereof;
(m) Continue the hearing from day-to-day or adjourn it to a later date or to a different place, by announcement thereof at the hearing or by other appropriate notice;
(n) Prepare, serve and transmit the decision pursuant to § 1423.26;
(o) Take official notice of any material fact not appearing in evidence in the record, which is among the traditional matters of judicial notice:
Provided, however,
That the parties shall be given adequate notice, at the hearing or by reference in the Administrative Law Judge's decision of the matters so noticed, and shall be given adequate opportunity to show the contrary;
(p) Approve requests for withdrawal of complaints based on informal settlements occurring after the opening of the hearing pursuant to § 1423.11(e)(1),
and transmit formal settlement agreements to the Board for approval pursuant to § 1423.11(e) (2) and (3);
(q) Grant or deny requests made at the hearing to intervene and to present testimony;
(r) Correct or approve proposed corrections of the official transcript when deemed necessary;
(s) Sequester witnesses where appropriate; and
(t) Take any other action deemed necessary under the foregoing and not prohibited by the regulations in this subchapter.
§ 1423.20
Unavailability of Administrative Law Judges.
In the event the Administrative Law Judge designated to conduct the hearing becomes unavailable, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall designate another Administrative Law Judge for the purpose of further hearing or issuance of a decision on the record as made, or both.
§ 1423.21
Objection to conduct of hearing.
(a) Any objection with respect to the conduct of the hearing, including any objection to the introduction of evidence, may be stated orally or in writing accompanied by a short statement of the grounds for such objection, and included in the record. No such objection shall be deemed waived by further participation in the hearing. Such objection shall not stay the conduct of the hearing.
(b) Formal exceptions to adverse rulings are unnecessary. Automatic exceptions will be allowed to all adverse rulings. Except by special permission of the Board, and in view of § 1429.11 of this subchapter, rulings by the Administrative Law Judge shall not be appealed prior to the transmittal of the case to the Board, but shall be considered by the Board only upon the filing of exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge's decision in accordance with § 1423.27. In the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, the hearing may be continued or adjourned pending any such request for special permission to appeal.
§ 1423.22
Motions.
(a)
Filing of Motions.
(1) Motions made prior to a hearing and any response thereto shall be made in writing and filed with the Regional Director:
Provided, however,
That after the issuance of a complaint by the Regional Director any motion to postpone the hearing should be filed with the Chief Administrative Law Judge at least five (5) days prior to the opening of the scheduled hearing. Motions made after the hearing opens and prior to the transmittal of the case to the Board shall be made in writing to the Administrative Law Judge or orally on the record. After the transmittal of the case to the Board, motions and any response thereto shall be filed in writing with the Board:
Provided, however,
That a motion to correct the transcript shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
(2) A response to a motion shall be filed within five (5) days after service of the motion, unless otherwise directed.
(3) An original and two (2) copies of the motions and responses shall be filed, and copies shall be served on the parties. A statement of such service shall accompany the original.
(b)
Rulings on motions.
(1) Regional Directors may rule on all motions filed with them before the hearing, or they may refer them to the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
(2) Except by special permission of the Board, and in view of § 1429.11 of this subchapter, rulings by the Regional Director shall not be appealed prior to the transmittal of the case to the Board, but shall be considered by the Board when the case is transmitted to it for decision.
(3) Administrative Law Judges may rule on motions referred to them prior to the hearing and on motions filed after the beginning of the hearing and before the transmittal of the case to the Board. Such motions may be ruled upon by the Chief Administrative Law Judge in the absence of an Administrative Law Judge.
(4) Except by special permission of the Board, and in view of § 1429.11 of this subchapter, rulings by Administrative Law Judges shall not be appealed prior to the transmittal of the case to
the Board, but shall be considered by the Board when the case is transmitted to it for decision. In the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge, the hearing may be continued or adjourned pending any such request for special permission to appeal.
§ 1423.23
Waiver of objections.
Any objection not made before an Administrative Law Judge shall be deemed waived.
§ 1423.24
Oral argument at the hearing.
Any party shall be entitled, upon request, to a reasonable period prior to the close of the hearing for oral argument, which shall be included in the official transcript of the hearing.
§ 1423.25
Filing of brief.
Any party desiring to submit a brief to the Administrative Law Judge shall file the original and two (2) copies within a reasonable time fixed by the Administrative Law Judge, but not in excess of thirty (30) days from the close of the hearing. Copies of any brief shall be served on all other parties to the proceeding and a statement of such service shall be filed with the Administrative Law Judge. Requests for additional time to file a brief shall be made to the Chief Administrative Law Judge, in writing, and copies thereof shall be served on the other parties. A statement of such service shall be furnished. Requests for extension of time shall be received not later than five (5) days before the date such briefs are due. No reply brief may be filed except by special permission of the Administrative Law Judge.
§ 1423.26
Transmittal of the Administrative Law Judge's decision to the Board; exceptions.
(a) After the close of the hearing, and the receipt of brief, if any, the Administrative Law Judge shall prepare the decision expeditiously. The Administrative Law Judge shall prepare a decision even when the parties enter into a stipulation of fact at the hearing. The decision shall contain findings of fact, conclusions, and the reasons or basis therefor including credibility determinations, and conclusions as to the disposition of the case including, where appropriate, the remedial action to be taken and notices to be posted.
(b) The Administrative Law Judge shall cause the decision to be served promptly on all parties to the proceeding. Thereafter, the Administrative Law Judge shall transmit the case to the Board including the judge's decision and the record. The record shall include the charge, complaint, service sheet, answer, motions, rulings, orders, official transcript of the hearing, stipulations, objections, depositions, interrogatories, exhibits, documentary evidence and any briefs or other documents submitted by the parties.
(c) An original and three (3) copies of any exception to the Administrative Law Judge's decision and briefs in support of exceptions may be filed by any party with the Board within twenty-five (25) days after service of the decision:
Provided, however,
That the Board may for good cause shown extend the time for filing such exceptions. Requests for additional time in which to file exceptions shall be in writing, and copies thereof shall be served on the other parties. Requests for extension of time must be received no later than five (5) days before the date the exceptions are due. Copies of such exceptions and any supporting briefs shall be served on all other parties, and a statement of such service shall be furnished to the Board.
§ 1423.27
Contents of exceptions to the Administrative Law Judge's decision.
(a) Exceptions to an Administrative Law Judge's decision shall:
(1) Set forth specifically the questions upon which exceptions are taken;
(2) Identify that part of the Administrative Law Judge's decision to which objection is made; and
(3) Designate by precise citation of page the portions of the record relied on, state the grounds for the exceptions, and include the citation of authorities unless set forth in a supporting brief.
(b) Any exception to a ruling, finding or conclusion which is not specifically urged shall be deemed to have been waived. Any exception which fails to
comply with the foregoing requirements may be disregarded.
§ 1423.28
Briefs in support of exceptions; oppositions to exceptions; cross-exceptions.
(a) Any brief in support of exceptions shall contain only matters included within the scope of the exceptions and shall contain, in the order indicated, the following:
(1) A concise statement of the case containing all that is material to the consideration of the questions presented;
(2) A specification of the questions involved and to be argued; and
(3) The argument, presenting clearly the points of fact and law relied on in support of the position taken on each question, with specific page reference to the transcript and the legal or other material relied on.
(b) Any party may file an opposition to exceptions and cross-exceptions and a supporting brief with the Board within ten (10) days after service of any exceptions to an Administrative Law Judge's decision. Copies of the opposition to exceptions and the cross-exceptions and any supporting briefs shall be served on all other parties, and a statement of service shall be filed with the opposition to exceptions and cross-exceptions and any supporting briefs.
§ 1423.29
Action by the Board.
(a) After considering the Administrative Law Judge's decision, the record, and any exceptions and related submissions filed, the Board shall issue its decision affirming or reversing the Administrative Law Judge, in whole, or in part, or making such other disposition of the matter as it deems appropriate:
Provided, however,
That unless exceptions are filed which are timely and in accordance with § 1423.27, the Board may, at its discretion, adopt without discussion the decision of the Administrative Law Judge, in which event the findings and conclusions of the Administrative Law Judge, as contained in such decision shall, upon appropriate notice to the parties, automatically become the decision of the Board.
(b) Upon finding a violation, the Board shall issue an order:
(1) To cease and desist from any such unfair labor practice in which the Department or labor organization is engaged;
(2) Requiring the parties to renegotiate a collective bargaining agreement in accordance with the order of the Board and requiring that the agreement, as amended, be given retroactive effect;
(3) Requiring reinstatement of an employee with backpay in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5596; or
(4) Including any combination of the actions described in paragraphs (b) (1) through (3) of this section or such other action as will carry out the purpose of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
(c) Upon finding no violation, the Board shall dismiss the complaint.
§ 1423.30
Compliance with decisions and orders of the Board.
When remedial action is ordered, the respondent shall report to the appropriate Regional Director within a specified period that the required remedial action has been effected. When the General Counsel finds that the required remedial action has not been effected, the General Counsel shall take such action as may be appropriate, including referral to the Board for enforcement.
§ 1423.31
Backpay proceedings.
After the entry of a Board order directing payment of backpay, or the entry of a court decree enforcing such order, if it appears to the Regional Director that a controversy exists between the Board and a respondent which cannot be resolved without a formal proceeding, the Regional Director may issue and serve on all parties a backpay specification accompanied by a notice of hearing or a notice of hearing without a specification. The respondent shall, within twenty (20) days after the service of a backpay specification accompanied by a notice of hearing, file an answer thereto in accordance with § 1423.13 with the Regional Director issuing such specification. No answer need be filed by the respondent to a notice of hearing issued without a specification. After the issuance of a notice of hearing, with or without a backpay specification, the
procedures provided in §§ 1423.14 to 1423.29, inclusive, shall be followed insofar as applicable.
Pt. 1424

# PART 1424—EXPEDITED REVIEW OF NEGOTIABILITY ISSUES
Sec.
1424.1
Conditions governing review.
1424.2
Who may file a petition.
1424.3
Time limits for filing.
1424.4
Content of petition; service.
1424.5
Selection of the unfair labor practice procedure or the negotiability procedure.
1424.6
Position of the Department; time limits for filing; service.
1424.7
Response of the exclusive representative; time limits for filing; service.
1424.8
Additional submissions to the Board.
1424.9
Hearing.
1424.10
Board decision and order; compliance.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107(c).

# Source:
46 FR 45873, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1424.1
Conditions governing review.
Pursuant to the authority contained in 22 U.S.C. 4107 (a)(3) and (c)(1) the Board will consider a direct appeal concerning whether a matter proposed to be bargained is within the obligation to bargain under the Foreign Service Act of 1980 as follows: If the Department is involved in collective bargaining with an exclusive representative and alleges that the duty to bargain in good faith does not extend to any matter proposed to be bargained because, as proposed, the matter is inconsistent with applicable law, rule or regulation the exclusive representative may appeal the allegation to the Board when it disagrees with Department's allegation that the matter as proposed to be bargained is inconsistent with applicable law, rule or regulation.
§ 1424.2
Who may file a petition.
A petition for review of a negotiability issue may be filed by the exclusive representative which is a party to the negotiations.
§ 1424.3
Time limits for filing.
(a) The time limit for filing an appeal under this part is fifteen (15) days from the Department's allegation, which was requested in writing by the exclusive representative, is served on the exclusive representative. The Department shall make the allegation in writing and serve a copy on the exclusive representative:
Provided, however,
That review of a negotiability issue may be requested by the exclusive representative under this part without a prior written allegation by the Department if a written allegation has not been served upon the exclusive representative within ten (10) days after the date of receipt by any Department bargaining representative at the negotiations of a written request for such allegation.
§ 1424.4
Content of petition; service.
(a) A petition for review shall be dated and shall contain the following:
(1) A statement setting forth the matter proposed to be bargained as submitted to the Department;
(2) A copy of all pertinent material, including the Department's allegation in writing that the matter, as proposed, is not within the duty to bargain in good faith, and other relevant documentary material; and
(3) Notification by the petitioning labor organization whether the negotiability issue is also involved in an unfair labor parctice charge filed by such labor organization under part 1423 of this subchapter and pending before the General Counsel.
(b) A copy of the petition including all attachments thereto shall be served on the Secretary and on the principal Department bargaining representative at the negotiations.
§ 1424.5
Selection of the unfair labor practice procedure or the negotiability procedure.
Where a labor organization files an unfair labor practice charge pursuant to part 1423 of this subchapter which involves a negotiability issue, and the labor organization also files pursuant to this part a petition for review of the same negotiability issue, the Board and the General Counsel ordinarily will not process the unfair labor practice charge and the petition for review simultaneously. Under such circumstances, the labor organization must select under which procedure to proceed. Upon selection of one procedure, further action under the other
procedure will ordinarily be suspended. Such selection must be made regardless of whether the unfair labor practice charge or the petition for review of a negotiability issue is filed first. Notification of this selection must be made in writing at the time that both procedures have been invoked, and must be served on the Board, the appropriate Regional Director and all parties to both the unfair labor practice case and the negotiability case. Cases which solely involve the Department's allegation that the duty bargain in good faith does not extend to the matter proposed to be bargained and which do not involve actual or contemplated changes in conditions of employment may only be filed under this part.
§ 1424.6
Position of the Department; time limits for filing; service.
(a) Within thirty (30) days after the date of receipt by the Secretary of a copy of the petition for review of a negotiability issue the Department shall file a statement—
(1) Withdrawing the allegation that the duty to bargain in good faith does not extend to the matter proposed to be bargained; or
(2) Setting forth in full its position on any matters relevant to the petition which it wishes the Board to consider in reaching its decision, including a full and detailed statement of its reasons supporting the allegation. The statement shall cite the section of any law, rule or regulation relied upon as a basis for the allegation.
(b) A copy of the Department's statement of position including all attachments thereto shall be served on the exclusive representative.
§ 1424.7
Response of the exclusive representative; time limits for filing; service.
(a) Within fifteen (15) days after the date of receipt by an exclusive representative of a copy of the Department's statement of position the exclusive representative shall file a full and detailed response stating its position and reasons for disagreeing with the Department's allegation that the matter, as proposed to be bargained, is inconsistent with applicable law or rule or regulation.
(b) A copy of the response of the exclusive representative including all attachments thereto shall be served on the Secretary and on the Department's representative of record in the proceedings before the Board.
§ 1424.8
Additional submissions to the Board.
The Board will not consider any submission filed by any party, whether supplemental or responsive in nature, other than those authorized under §§ 1424.2 through 1424.7 unless such submission is requested by the Board; or unless, upon written request by any party, a copy of which is served on all other parties, the Board in its discretion grants permission to file such submission.
§ 1424.9
Hearing.
A hearing may be held, in the discretion of the Board, before a determination is made under 22 U.S.C. 4107(a)(3). If a hearing is held, it shall be expedited to the extent practicable and shall not include the General Counsel as a party.
§ 1424.10
Board decision and order; compliance.
(a) Subject to the requirements of this part the Board shall expedite proceedings under this part to the extent practicable and shall issue to the exclusive representative and to the Department a written decision on the allegation and specific reasons therefor at the earliest practicable date.
(b) If the Board finds that the duty to bargain extends to the matter proposed to be bargained, the decision of the Board shall include an order that the Department shall upon request (or as otherwise agreed to by the parties) bargain concerning such matter. If the Board finds that the duty to bargain does not extend to the matter proposed to be bargained, the Board shall so state and issue an order dismissing the petition for review of the negotiability issue. If the Board finds that the duty to bargain extends to the matter proposed to be bargained only at the election of the Department, the Board shall so state and issue an order dismissing the petition for review of the negotiability issue.
(c) When an order is issued as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the Department or exclusive representative shall report to the appropriate Regional Director within a specified period failure to comply with an order that the Department shall upon request (or as otherwise agreed to by the parties) bargain concerning the disputed matter. If the Board finds such a failure to comply with its order, the Board shall take whatever action it deems necessary, including enforcement under 22 U.S.C. 4109(b).
Pt. 1425

# PART 1425—REVIEW OF IMPLEMENTATION DISPUTE ACTIONS
Sec.
1425.1
Who may file an exception; time limits for filing; opposition; service.
1425.2
Content of exception.
1425.3
Grounds for review.
1425.4
Board decision.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107(c).

# Source:
46 FR 45875, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1425.1
Who may file an exception; time limits for filing; opposition; service.
(a) Either party to an appeal to the Foreign Service Grievance Board under the provisions of 22 U.S.C. 4114 may file an exception to the action of the Foreign Service Grievance Board taken pursuant to the appeal.
(b) The time limit for filing an exception to a Foreign Service Grievance Board action is thirty (30) days after such action is communicated to the parties.
(c) An opposition to the exception may be filed by a party within thirty (30) days after the date of service of the exception.
(d) A copy of the exception and any opposition shall be served on the other party.
§ 1425.2
Content of exception.
An exception must be a dated, self-contained document which sets forth in full:
(a) A statement of the grounds on which review is requested;
(b) Evidence or rulings bearing on the issues before the Board;
(c) Arguments in support of the stated grounds, together with specific reference to the pertinent documents and citations of authorities; and
(d) A legible copy of the decision or other document representing the action taken by the Foreign Service Grievance Board, together with legible copies of other pertinent documents pertaining to the action.
§ 1425.3
Grounds for review.
The Board will review an action of the Foreign Service Grievance Board to which an exception has been filed to determine if it is deficient—
(a) Because it is contrary to any law, rule, or regulation; or
(b) On other grounds similar to those applied by Federal courts in private sector labor-management relations.
§ 1425.4
Board decision.
The Board shall issue its decision taking such action and making such recommendations concerning the Foreign Service Grievance Board action as it considers necessary, consistent with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
Pt. 1427

# PART 1427—GENERAL STATEMENTS OF POLICY OR GUIDANCE
Sec.
1427.1
Scope.
1427.2
Requests for general statements of policy or guidance.
1427.3
Content of request.
1427.4
Submissions from interested parties.
1427.5
Standards governing issuance of general statements of policy or guidance.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107(c).

# Source:
46 FR 45875, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1427.1
Scope.
This part sets forth procedures under which requests may be submitted to the Board seeking the issuance of general statements of policy or guidance under 22 U.S.C. 4107(c)(2)(F).
§ 1427.2
Requests for general statements of policy or guidance.
(a) The head of the Department (or designee), the national president of a labor organization (or designee), or the president of a labor organization not affiliated with a national organization
(or designee) may separately or jointly ask the Board for a general statement of policy or guidance. The head of any lawful association not qualified as a labor organization may also ask the Board for such a statement provided the request is not in conflict with the provisions of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
(b) The Board ordinarily will not consider a request related to any matter pending before the Board, General Counsel, Panel or Assistant Secretary.
§ 1427.3
Content of request.
(a) A request for a general statement of policy or guidance shall be in writing and must contain:
(1) A concise statement of the question with respect to which a general statement of policy or guidance is requested together with background information necessary to an understanding of the question;
(2) A statement of the standards under § 1427.5 upon which the request is based;
(3) A full and detailed statement of the position or positions of the requesting party or parties
(4) Identification of any cases or other proceedings known to bear on the question which are pending under the Foreign Service Labor-Management Statute.
(5) Identification of other known interested parties.
(b) A copy of each document also shall be served on all known interested parties, including the General Counsel, the Panel, and the Assistant Secretary, where appropriate.
§ 1427.4
Submissions from interested parties.
Prior to issuance of a general statement of policy or guidance the Board, as it deems appropriate, will afford an opportunity to interested parties to express their views orally or in writing.
§ 1427.5
Standards governing issuance of general statements of policy or guidance.
In deciding whether to issue a general statement of policy or guidance, the Board shall consider:
(a) Whether the question presented can more appropriately be resolved by other means;
(b) Where other means are available, whether a Board statement would prevent the proliferation of cases involving the same or similar question;
(c) Whether the resolution of the question presented would have general applicability under the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
(d) Whether the question currently confronts parties in the context of a labor-management relationship;
(e) Whether the question is presented jointly by the parties involved; and
(f) Whether the issuance by the Board of a general statement of policy or guidance on the question would promote constructive and cooperative labor-management relationships in the Foreign Service and would otherwise promote the purposes of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute.
Pt. 1428

# PART 1428—ENFORCEMENT OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY STANDARDS OF CONDUCT DECISIONS AND ORDERS
Sec.
1428.1
Scope.
1428.2
Petitions for enforcement.
1428.3
Board decision.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107(c).

# Source:
46 FR 45875, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1428.1
Scope.
This part sets forth procedures under which the Board, pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 4107(a)(5) enforce decisions and orders of the Assistant Secretary in standards of conduct matters arising under 5 U.S.C. 7120.
§ 1428.2
Petitions for enforcement.
(a) The Assistant Secretary may petition the Board to enforce any Assistant Secretary decision and order in a standards of conduct case arising under 22 U.S.C. 4117. The Assistant Secretary shall transfer to the Board the record in the case, including a copy of the transcript if any, exhibits, briefs, and other documents filed with the Assistant Secretary. A copy of the petition
for enforcement shall be served on the labor organization against which such order applies.
(b) An opposition to Board enforcement of any such Assistant Secretary decision and order may be filed by the labor organization against which such order applies twenty (20) days from the date of service of the petition, unless the Board, upon good cause shown by the Assistant Secretary, sets a shorter time for filing such position. A copy of the opposition to enforcement shall be served on the Assistant Secretary.
§ 1428.3
Board decision.
(a) A decision and order of the Assistant Secretary shall be enforced unless it is arbitrary and capricious or based upon manifest disregard of the law.
(b) The Board shall issue its decision on the case enforcing, enforcing as modified, refusing to enforce, or remanding the decision and order of the Assistant Secretary.
Pt. 1429

# PART 1429—MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

# Subpart A—Miscellaneous
Sec.
1429.1
Transfer of cases to the Board.
1429.2
Transfer and consolidation of cases.
1429.3
Transfer of record.
1429.4
Referral of policy questions to the Board.
1429.5
Matters not previously presented; official notice.
1429.6
Oral argument.
1429.7
Subpoenas.
1429.8
Stay of action taken by Grievance Board; requests.
1429.9
Amicus curiae.
1429.10
Advisory opinions.
1429.11
Interlocutory appeals.
1429.12
Service of process and papers by the Board.
1429.13
Official time.
1429.14
Witness fees.
1429.15
Board requests for advisory opinions.
1429.16
General remedial authority.

# Subpart B—General Requirements
1429.21
Computation of time for filing papers.
1429.22
Additional time after service by mail.
1429.23
Extension; waiver.
1429.24
Place and method of filing; acknowledgement.
1429.25
Number of copies.
1429.26
Other documents.
1429.27
Service; statement of service.
1429.28
Petitions for amendment of regulations.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107(c).

# Source:
46 FR 45876, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Miscellaneous
§ 1429.1
Transfer of cases to the Board.
(a) In any representation case under part 1422 of this subchapter in which the Regional Director determines, based upon a stipulation by the parties, that no material issue of fact exists, the Regional Director may transfer the case to the Board; and the Board may decide the case on the basis of the papers alone after having allowed twenty-five (25) days for the filing of briefs. In any unfair labor practice case under part 1423 of this subchapter in which, after the issuance of a complaint, the Regional Director determines, based upon a stipulation by the parties, that no material issue of fact exists, the Regional Director may upon agreement of all parties transfer the case to the Board; and the Board shall decide the case on the basis of the case papers alone after having allowed twenty-five (25) days for the filing of briefs. The Board may remand any such case to the Regional Director if it determines that a material question of fact does exist. Orders of transfer and remand shall be served on all parties.
(b) In any case under parts 1422 and 1423 of this subchapter in which it appears to the Regional Director that the proceedings raise questions which should be decided by the Board, the Regional Director may, at any time, issue an order transferring the case to the Board for decision or other appropriate action. Such an order shall be served on the parties.
§ 1429.2
Transfer and consolidation of cases.
In any matter arising pursuant to parts 1422 and 1423 of this subchapter, whenever it appears necessary in order to effectuate the purposes of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute or to avoid unnecessary costs or delay, Regional Directors may
consolidate cases within their own region or may transfer such cases to any other region, for the purpose of investigation or consolidation with any proceedings which may have been instituted in, or transferred to, such region.
§ 1429.3
Transfer of record.
In any case under part 1425 of this subchapter, upon request by the Board, the parties jointly shall transfer the record in the case, including a copy of the transcript, if any, exhibits, briefs and other documents filed with the Grievance Board, to the Board.
§ 1429.4
Referral of policy questions to the Board.
Notwithstanding the procedures set forth in this subchapter, the General Counsel, the Assistant Secretary, or the Panel may refer for review and decision or general ruling by the Board any case involving a major policy issue that arises in a proceeding before any of them. Any such referral shall be in writing and a copy of such referral shall be served on all parties to the proceeding. Before decision or general ruling, the Board shall obtain the views of the parties and other interested persons, orally or in writing, as it deems necessary and appropriate.
§ 1429.5
Matters not previously presented; official notice.
The Board will not consider evidence offered by a party, or any issue, which was not presented in the proceedings before the Regional Director, Hearing Officer, Administrative Law Judge, or Grievance Board. The Board may, however, take official notice of such matters as would be proper.
§ 1429.6
Oral argument.
The Board or the General Counsel, in their discretion, may request or permit oral argument in any matter arising under this subchapter under such circumstances and conditions as they deem appropriate.
§ 1429.7
Subpoenas.
(a) Any member of the Board, the General Counsel, any Administrative Law Judge appointed by the Board under 5 U.S.C. 3105, and any Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or other employee of the Board designated by the Board may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary or other evidence. However, no subpoena shall be issued under this section which requires the disclosure of intramanagement guidance, advice, counsel, or training within an agency or between an agency and the Office of Personnel Management.
(b) Where the parties are in agreement that the appearance of witnesses or the production of documents is necessary, and such witnesses agree to appear, no such subpoena need be sought.
(c) A request for a subpoena by any person, as defined in 22 U.S.C. 4102 shall be in writing and filed with the Regional Director, in proceedings arising under parts 1422 and 1423 of this subchapter, or filed with the Board, in proceedings arising under parts 1424 and 1425 of this subchapter, not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the opening of a hearing, or with the appropriate presiding official(s) during the hearing.
(d) All requests shall name and identify the witnesses or documents sought, and state the reasons therefor. The Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Board designated by the Board, as appropriate, shall grant the request upon the determination that the testimony or documents appear to be necessary to the matters under investigation and the request describes with sufficient particularity the documents sought. Service of an approved subpoena is the responsibility of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued. The subpoena shall show on its face the name and address of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued.
(e) Any person served with a subpoena who does not intend to comply, shall, within five (5) days after the date of service of the subpoena upon such person, petition in writing to revoke the subpoena. A copy of any petition to revoke a subpoena shall be served on the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued. Such petition to revoke, if made prior to the hearing, and a written statement of service, shall be filed with the Regional Director, who may
refer the petition to the Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Board designated by the Board, as appropriate, for ruling. A petition to revoke a subpoena filed during the hearing, and a written statement of service, shall be filed with the appropriate presiding official(s). The Regional Director, or the appropriate presiding official(s) will, as a matter of course, cause a copy of the petition to revoke to be served on the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued, but shall not be deemed to assume responsibility for such service. The Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Board designated by the Board, as appropriate, shall revoke the subpoena if the evidence the production of which is required does not relate to any matter under investigation or in question in the proceedings, or the subpoena does not describe with sufficient particularity the evidence the production of which is required, or if for any other reason sufficient in law the subpoena is invalid. The Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or any other employee of the Board designated by the Board, as appropriate, shall make a simple statement of procedural or other ground for the ruling on the petition to revoke. The petition to revoke, any answer thereto, and any ruling thereon shall not become part of the official record except upon the request of the party aggrieved by the ruling.
(f) Upon the failure of any person to comply with a subpoena issued, upon the request of the party on whose behalf the subpoena was issued, the General Counsel shall, on behalf of such party, institute proceedings in the appropriate district court for the enforcement thereof, unless, in the judgment of the General Counsel, the enforcement of such subpoena would be inconsistent with law and the policies of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute. The General Counsel shall not be deemed thereby to have assumed responsibility for the effective prosecution of the same before the court thereafter.
§ 1429.8
Stay of action taken by Grievance Board; requests.
(a) A request for a stay shall be entertained only in conjunction with and as a part of an exception to an action taken by the Grievance Board under part 1425 of this subchapter. The filing of an exception shall not itself operate as a stay of the action involved in the proceedings.
(b) A timely request for a stay of an action taken by the Grievance Board to which an exception has been filed shall operate as a temporary stay of the award. Such temporary stay shall be deemed effective from the date of the action and shall remain in effect until the Board issues its decision and order on the exception, or the Board or its designee otherwise acts with respect to the request for the stay.
(c) A request for a stay of an action taken by the Grievance Board will be granted only where it appears, based upon the facts and circumstances presented, that:
(1) There is a strong likelihood of success on the merits of the appeal; and
(2) A careful balancing of all the equities, including the public interest, warrants issuance of a stay.
§ 1429.9
Amicus curiae.
Upon petition of an interested person, a copy of which petition shall be served on the parties, and as the Board deems appropriate, the Board may grant permission for the presentation of written and/or oral argument at any stage of the proceedings by an amicus curiae and the parties shall be notified of such action by the Board.
§ 1429.10
Advisory opinions.
The Board and the General Counsel will not issue advisory opinions.
§ 1429.11
Interlocutory appeals.
The Board and the General Counsel ordinarily will not consider interlocutory appeals.
§ 1429.12
Service of process and papers by the Board.
(a)
Methods of service.
Notices of hearings, reports and findings, decisions of
Administrative Law Judges, complaints, written rulings on motions, decisions and orders, and all other papers required by this subchapter to be issued by the Board, the General Counsel, Regional Directors, Hearing Officers and Administrative Law Judges, shall be served personally or by certified mail or by telegraph.
(b)
Upon whom served.
All papers required to be served under paragraph (a) of this section shall be served upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, and upon parties not so represented. Service upon such counsel or representative shall constitute service upon the party, but a copy also shall be transmitted to the party.
(c)
Proof of service.
Proof of service shall be the verified return by the individual serving the papers setting forth the manner of such service, the return post office receipt, or the return telegraph receipt. When service is by mail, the date of service shall be the day when the matter served is deposited in the United States mail. When service is to be made to an addressee outside the United States, the date of service shall be the date received, as evidenced by official receipt.
§ 1429.13
Official time.
If the participation of any employee in any phase of any proceeding before the Board, including the investigation of unfair labor practice charges and representation petitions and the participation in hearings and representation elections, is deemed necessary by the Board, the General Counsel, any Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, Hearing Officer, or other agent of the Board designated by the Board, such employee shall be granted official time for such participation, including necessary travel time, as occurs during the employee's regular work hours and when the employee would otherwise be in a work or paid leave status. In addition, necessary transportation and per diem expenses shall be paid by the Department.
§ 1429.14
Witness Fees.
(a) Witnesses (whether appearing voluntarily, or under a subpoena) shall be paid the fee and mileage allowances which are paid subpoenaed witnesses in the courts of the United States:
Provided,
That any witness who is employed by the Federal Government shall not be entitled to receive witness fees in addition to compensation received pursuant to § 1429.13.
(b) Witness fees and mileage allowances shall be paid by the party at whose instance the witnesses appear, except when the witness receives compensation pursuant to (the preceding section).
§ 1429.15
Board requests for advisory opinions.
(a) Whenever the Board, pursuant to section 1007(c)(2)(f) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4107) requests an advisory opinion from the Director of the Office of Personnel Management concerning the proper interpretation of rules, regulations, or policy directives issued by that Office in connection with any matter before the Board, a copy of such request, and any response thereto, shall be served upon the parties in the matter.
(b) The parties shall have fifteen (15) days from the date of service a copy of the response of the Office of Personnel Management to file with the Board comments on that response which the parties wish the Board to consider before reaching a decision in the matter. Such comments shall be in writing and copies shall be served upon the parties in the manner and upon the Office of Personnel Management.
§ 1429.16
General remedial authority.
The Board shall take any actions which are necessary and appropriate to administer effectively the provisions of chapter 41 of title 22 of the United States Code.

# Subpart B—General Requirements
§ 1429.21
Computation of time for filing papers.
In computing any period of time prescribed by or allowed by this subchapter, except in agreement bar situations described in § 1422.3(c) of this subchapter, the day of the act, event, or default from or after which the designated period of time begins to run, shall not be included. The last day of
the period so computed is to be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday in which event the period shall run until the end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, or a Federal legal holiday:
Provided, however,
In agreement bar situations described in § 1422.3 (c) and (d), if the sixtieth (60th) day prior to the expiration date of an agreement falls on Saturday, Sunday or a Federal legal holiday, a petition, to be timely, must be received by the close of business of the last official workday preceding the sixtieth (60th) day. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is seven (7) days or less, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays shall be excluded from the computations. When this subchapter requires the filing of any paper, such document must be received by the Board or the officer or agent designated to receive such matter before the close of business on the last day of the time limit, if any, for such filing or extension of time that may have been granted.
§ 1429.22
Additional time after service by mail.
Whenever a party has the right or is required to do some act pursuant to this subchapter within a prescribed period after service of a notice or other paper upon such party, and the notice or paper is served on such party by mail, five (5) days shall be added to the prescribed period.
§ 1429.23
Extension; waiver.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Board or General Counsel, or their designated representatives, as appropriate, may extend any time limit provided in this subchapter for good cause shown, and shall notify the parties of any such extension. Requests for extensions of time shall be filed in writing no later than five (5) days before the established time limit for filing, shall state the position of the other parties on the request for extension, and shall be served on the other parties.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Board or General Counsel, or their designated representatives, as appropriate, may waive any expired time limit in this subchapter in extraordinary circumstances. Request for a waiver of time limits shall state the position of the other parties and shall be served on the other parties.
(c) The time limits established in this subchapter may not be extended or waived in any manner other than that described in this subchapter.
(d) The time limits prescribed by 22 U.S.C. 4114(c) may not be waived.
§ 1429.24
Place and method of filing; acknowledgement.
(a) A document submitted to the Board pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the Board at the address set forth in appendix A to this chapter XIV.
(b) A document submitted to the General Counsel pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the General Counsel at the address set forth in appendix A.
(c) A document submitted to a Regional Director pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the appropriate regional office, as set forth in appendix A.
(d) A document submitted to an Administrative Law Judge pursuant to this subchapter shall be filed with the appropriate Administrative Law Judge, as set forth in appendix A.
(e) All documents filed pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section shall be filed by certified mail or in person, or if the filing party is outside the United States, by the most appropriate available means.
(f) All matters filed under paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of this section shall be printed, typed, or otherwise legibly duplicated: Carbon copies of typewritten matter will be accepted if they are clearly legible.
(g) Documents in any proceedings under this subchapter, including correspondence, shall show the title of the proceeding and the case number, if any.
(h) The original of each document required to be filed under this subchapter shall be signed by the party or by an attorney or representative of record for the party, or by an officer of the party, and shall contain the address and telephone number of the person signing it.
(i) A return postal receipt may serve as acknowledgement of receipt by the Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, or Hearing Officer, as appropriate. The receiving officer will otherwise acknowledge receipt of documents filed only when the filing party so requests and includes an extra copy of the document or its transmittal letter which the receiving office will date stamp upon receipt and return. If return is to be made by mail, the filing party shall include a self-addressed, stamped envelope for the purpose.
§ 1429.25
Number of copies.
Unless otherwise provided by the Board or the General Counsel, or their designated representatives, as appropriate, or under this subchapter, any document or paper filed with the Board, General Counsel, Administrative Law Judge, Regional Director, or Hearing Officer, as appropriate, under this subchapter, together with any enclosure filed therewith, shall be submitted in an original and four (4) copies. A clean copy capable of being used as an original for purposes such as further reproduction may be substituted for the original.
§ 1429.26
Other documents.
(a) The Board or the General Counsel, or their designated representatives, as appropriate, may in their discretion grant leave to file other documents as they deem appropriate.
(b) A copy of such other documents shall be served on the other parties.
§ 1429.27
Service; statement of service.
(a) Except as provided in § 1423.10 (c) and (d), any party filing a document as provided in this subchapter is responsible for serving a copy upon all counsel of record or other designated representative(s) of parties, upon parties not so represented, and upon any interested person who has been granted permission by the Board pursuant to § 1429.9 to present written and/or oral argument as amicus curiae. Service upon such counsel or representative shall constitute service upon the party, but a copy also shall be transmitted to the party.
(b) Service of any document or paper under this subchapter, by any party, including documents and papers served by one party on another, shall be made by certified mail or in person. A return post office receipt or other written receipt executed by the party or person served shall be proof of service.
(c) A signed and dated statement of service shall be submitted at the time of filing. The statement of service shall include the names of the parties and persons served, their addresses, the date of service, the nature of the document served, and the manner in which service was made.
(d) The date of service or date served shall be in the day when the matter served is deposited in the U.S. mail or is delivered in person. When service is to be made to an addressee outside the United States, the date of service shall be the date received, as evidenced by official receipt.
§ 1429.28
Petitions for amendment of regulations.
Any interested person may petition the Board or General Counsel in writing for amendments to any portion of these regulations. Such petition shall identify the portion of the regulations involved and provide the specific language of the proposed amendment together with a statement of grounds in support of such petition.

# SUBCHAPTER D—FOREIGN SERVICE IMPASSE DISPUTES PANEL
Pt. 1470

# PART 1470—GENERAL

# Subpart A—Purpose
Sec.
1470.1
Purpose.

# Subpart B—Definitions
1470.2
Definitions.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107(c), 4110.

# Source:
46 FR 45879, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose
§ 1470.1
Purpose.
The regulations contained in this subchapter are intended to implement the provisions of section 4110 of title 22 of the United States Code. They prescribed procedures and methods which the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel may utilize in the resolution of negotiation impasses.

# Subpart B—Definitions
§ 1470.2
Definitions.
(a) The term
Department
as used herein shall have the meaning set forth in 22 U.S.C. 3902 and 4103, and § 1421.4 of subchapter C of these regulations.
(b) The terms
labor organization,
and
conditions of employment
as used herein shall have the meanings set forth in 22 U.S.C. 4102.
(c) The term
Executive Director
means the Executive Director of the Federal Service Impasse Panel as defined in 5 U.S.C. 7119(c).
(d) The terms
designated representative
or
designee
of the Panel means a Panel member, a staff member, or other individual designated by the Panel to act on its behalf pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 4110(c)(1).
(e) The term
hearing
means a factfinding hearing, arbitration hearing, or any other hearing procedure deemed necessary to accomplish the purposes of 22 U.S.C. 4110.
(f) The term
impasse
means that point in the negotiation of a collective bargaining agreement at which the parties are deadlocked, notwithstanding their efforts to reach agreement by direct negotiations and other voluntary arrangements, if any.
(g) The term
Panel
means the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel described in 22 U.S.C. 4110(a) or a quorum thereof.
(h) The term
party
means the Department or the labor organization participating in the negotiation of a collective bargaining agreement.
(i) The term
quorum
means three (3) or more members of the Panel.
(j) The term
voluntary arrangements
means any appropriate technique, not inconsistent with the provisions of 22 U.S.C. 4110, used by the parties to assist in the negotiation of a collective bargaining agreement.
Pt. 1471

# PART 1471—PROCEDURES OF THE PANEL
Sec.
1471.1
Request for Panel consideration.
1471.2
Content of request.
1471.3
Where to file.
1471.4
Copies and service.
1471.5
Investigation of request; Panel recommendation and assistance.
1471.6
Preliminary hearing procedures.
1471.7
Conduct of hearing and prehearing conference.
1471.8
Report and recommendations.
1471.9
Duties of each party following receipt of recommendations.
1471.10
Final action by the Panel.
Appendix A to Chapter XIV—Current Addresses and Geographic Jurisdictions
Appendix B to Chapter XIV—Memorandum Describing the Authority and Assigned Responsibilities of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority Under the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 4107(c), 4110.

# Source:
46 FR 45879, Sept. 15, 1981, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1471.1
Request for Panel consideration.
If direct negotiations and other voluntary arrangements for settlement, if
any, fail to resolve a negotiation impasse:
(a) Either party, or the parties jointly, may request the Panel to consider the matter by filing a request as hereinafter provided; or
(b) The Panel may, pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 4110(a), undertake consideration of the matter upon request of the Executive Director.
§ 1471.2
Content of request.
A request from a party or parties to the Panel for consideration of an impasse must be in writing and include the following information:
(a) Identification of the parties and individuals authorized to act on their behalf;
(b) Statement of issues at impasse and the summary of positions of the initiating party or parties with respect to those issues; and
(c) Number, length, and dates of negotiation sessions held, including the nature and extent of all other voluntary arrangements utilized.
§ 1471.3
Where to file.
Requests to the Panel provided for in this part, and inquiries or correspondence on the status of impasses or other related matters, should be directed to the Executive Director, Federal Service Impasses Panel, Suite 209, 1730 K Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20006.
§ 1471.4
Copies and service.
Any party submitting a request for Panel consideration of an impasse and any party submitting a response to such requests shall file an original and one copy with the Panel, shall serve a copy promptly on the other party to the dispute, and shall file a statement of such service with the Executive Director. When the Panel acts on a request from the Executive Director, it will notify the parties to the dispute.
§ 1471.5
Investigation of request; Panel recommendation and assistance.
Upon receipt of a request for consideration of an impasse, the Panel or its designee will promptly conduct an investigation. After due consideration, the Panel shall either:
(a) Decline to assert jurisdiction in the event that it finds that no impasse exists or that there is other good cause for not asserting jurisdiction, in whole or in part, and so advise the parties in writing, stating its reasons; or
(b) Recommend to the parties procedures, including but not limited to arbitration, for the resolution of the impasse and/or assist them in resolving the impasse through whatever methods and procedures the Panel considers appropriate.
§ 1471.6
Preliminary hearing procedures.
When the Panel determines that a hearing is necessary under § 1471.5 it will:
(a) Appoint one or more of its designees to conduct such hearing; and
(b) Issue and serve upon each of the parties a notice of hearing and a notice of prehearing conference, if any. The notice will state (1) the names of the parties to the dispute; (2) the date, time, place, type, and purpose of the hearing; (3) the date, time, place, and purpose of the prehearing conference, if any; (4) the name of the designated representative appointed by the Panel; and (5) the issues to be resolved.
§ 1471.7
Conduct of hearing and prehearing conference.
(a) A designated representative of the Panel, when so appointed to conduct a hearing, shall have the authority on behalf of the Panel to:
(1) Administer oaths, take the testimony or deposition of any person under oath, receive other evidence, and issue subpoenas;
(2) Conduct the hearing in open or in closed session at the discretion of the designated representative for good cause shown;
(3) Rule on motions and requests for appearance of witnesses and the production of records;
(4) Designate the date on which posthearing briefs, if any, shall be submitted (an original and one (1) copy of each brief, accompanied by a statement of service, shall be submitted to the designated representative of the Panel with a copy to the other party); and
(5) Determine all procedural matters concerning the hearing, including the length of sessions, conduct of persons
in attendance, recesses, continuances, and adjournments; and take any other appropriated procedural action which, in the judgment of the designated representative, will promote the purpose and objectives of the hearing.
(b) A prehearing conference may be conducted by the designated representative of the Panel in order to:
(1) Inform the parties of the purpose of the hearing and the procedures under which it will take place;
(2) Explore the possibilities of obtaining stipulations of fact;
(3) Clarify the positions of the parties with respect to the issues to be heard; and
(4) Discuss any other relevant matters which will assist the parties in the resolution of the dispute.
(c) An official reporter shall make the only official transcript of a hearing. Copies of the official transcript may be examined and copied at the Office of the Executive Director in accordance with part 1411 of this chapter.
§ 1471.8
Report and recommendations.
(a) When a report is issued after a hearing conducted pursuant to §§ 1471.6 and 1471.7, it normally shall be in writing and, when authorized by the Panel, shall contain recommendations.
(b) A report of the designated representative containing recommendations shall be submitted to the parties, with two (2) copies to the Executive Director, within a period normally not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the transcript or briefs, if any.
(c) A report of the designated representative not containing recommendations shall be submitted to the Panel with a copy to each party within a period normally not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of the transcript or briefs, if any. The Panel shall then take whatever action it may consider appropriate or necessary to resolve the impasse.
§ 1471.9
Duties of each party following receipt of recommendations.
(a) Within thirty (30) days after receipt of a report containing recommendations of the Panel or its designated representative, each party shall, after conferring with the other, either:
(1) Accept the recommendations and so notify the Executive Director; or
(2) Reach a settlement of all unresolved issues and submit a written settlement statement to the Executive Director; or
(3) Submit a written statement to the Executive Director setting forth the reasons for not accepting the recommendations and for not reaching a settlement of all unresolved issues.
(b) A reasonable extension of time may be authorized by the Executive Director for good cause shown when requested in writing by either party prior to the expiration of the time limits.
(c) All papers submitted to the Executive Director under this section shall be filed in duplicate, along with a statement of service showing that a copy has been served on the other party to the dispute.
§ 1471.10
Final action by the Panel.
(a) If the parties do not arrive at a settlement as a result of or during action taken under §§ 1471.5(a)(2), 1471.6, 1471.7, 1471.8, and 1471.9, the Panel may take whatever action is necessary and not inconsistent with 22 U.S.C. 4110 to resolve the impasse, including but not limited to methods and procedures which the Panel considers appropriate, such as directing the parties to accept a factfinder's recommendations, ordering binding arbitration conducted according to whatever procedure the Panel deems suitable, and rendering a binding decision.
(b) In preparation for taking such final action, the Panel may hold hearings, administer oaths, take the testimony or deposition of any person under oath, and issue subpoenas as provided in 22 U.S.C. 4110(c)(2), or it may appoint or designate one or more individuals pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 4110(c)(1) to exercise such authority on its behalf.
(c) When the exercise of authority under this section requires the holding of a hearing, the procedure contained in § 1471.7 shall apply.
(d) Notice of any final action of the Panel shall be promptly served upon the parties, and the action shall be binding on such parties during the
term of the agreement, unless they agree otherwise.
(e) All papers submitted to the Executive Director under this section shall be filed in duplicate, along with a statement of service showing that a copy has been served on the other party to the dispute.
PARTS 1472-1499 [RESERVED]
Ch. XIV, App. A

# Appendix A to Chapter XIV—Current Addresses and Geographic Jurisdictions
(a) The Office address of the Board is as follows:
1900 E Street, NW., Room 7469, Washington, DC 20424. Telephone: Office of Executive Director, FTS—254-9595; Commercial—(202) 254-9595. Office of Operations, FTS—254-7362; Commercial—(202) 254-7362
(b) The Office address of the General Counsel is as follows:
1900 E Street, NW., Room 7469, Washington, DC 20424. Telephone: FTS—632-6264; Commercial—(202) 632-6264
(c) The Office address of the Chief Administrative Law Judge is as follows:
1111 20th Street, NW., Room 416, Washington, DC 20036. Telephone: FTS—653-7375; Commercial—(202) 653-7375
(d) The Office addresses of Regional Directors of the Authority are as follows:
(1)
Boston Regional Office,
441 Stuart Street, 9th Floor, Boston, MA 02116. Telephone: FTS—223-0920; Commercial—(617) 223-0920
(2)
New York Regional Office,
26 Federal Plaza, Room 241, New York, NY 10278. Telephone: FTS—264-4934; Commercial—(212) 264-4934
(i)
Philadelphia Sub-Regional Office,
325 Chestnut Street, Mall Building, Room 5000, Philadelphia, PA 19106. Telephone: FTS—597-1527; Commercial—(215) 597-1527
(3)
Washington Regional Office,
1133 15th Street, NW., Suite 300, Washington, DC 20005. Telephone: FTS—653-8452; Commercial—(202) 653-8452
(4)
Atlanta Regional Office,
1776 Peachtree Street, NW., Suite 501, North Wing, Atlanta, GA 30309. Telephone: FTS—257-2324; Commercial—(404) 881-2324 or 881-2325
(5)
Chicago Regional Office,
175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 1359-A, Chicago, IL 60604. Telephone: FTS—886-3468 or 886-3469; Commercial—(312) 353-6306
(i)
Cleveland Sub-Regional Office,
1301 Superior Avenue, Suite 230, Cleveland, OH 44114. Telephone: FTS—293-2114; Commercial—(216) 522-2114
(6)
Dallas Regional Office,
Downtown Post Office Station, Bryan and Ervay Streets, P.O. Box 2640, Dallas, TX 75221. Telephone: FTS—729-4996; Commercial—(214) 767-4996
(7)
Kansas City Regional Office,
City Center Square, 1100 Main Street, Suite 680, Kansas City, MO 64105. Telephone: FTS—758-2199; Commercial—(816) 374-2199
(i)
Denver Sub-Regional Office,
1531 Stout Street, Suite 301, Denver, CO 80202. Telephone: FTS—327-5224; Commercial—(303) 837-5224
(8)
Los Angeles Regional Office,
350 So. Figueroa Street, 10th Floor, World Trade Center, Los Angeles, CA 90071. Telephone: FTS—798-3805; Commercial—(213) 688-3805
(i)
Honolulu Sub-Regional Office,
Room 3206, 300 Alamoana Blvd., Honolulu, Hawaii 96850. Telephone: FTS—556-0220 through San Francisco FTS Operator; Commercial—(808) 546-8355
(9)
San Francisco Regional Office,
530 Bush Street, Room 542, San Francisco, CA 94108. Telephone: FTS—556-8105; Commercial—(415) 556-8105
(e) The Office address of the Panel is as follows:
1730 K Street, NW., Suite 209, Washington, DC 20006. Telephone: FTS—653-7078; Commercial—(202) 653-7078
(f) The geographic jurisdictions of the Regional Directors of the Authority, are as follows:
State or other locality
Regional office
Alabama
Atlanta
Alaska
San Francisco
Arizona
Los Angeles
Arkansas
Dallas
California
Los Angeles/San Francisco
1
Colorado
Kansas City
Connecticut
Boston
Delaware
New York
District of Columbia
Washington, DC
Florida
Atlanta
Georgia
Atlanta
Hawaii and all land and water areas west of the continents of North and South America (except coastal islands) to long. 90
1/4
E
Los Angeles
Idaho
San Francisco
Illinois
Chicago
Indiana
Chicago
Iowa
Kansas City
Kansas
Kansas City
Kentucky
Atlanta
Louisiana
Dallas
Maine
Boston
Maryland
Washington, DC
Massachusetts
Boston
Michigan
Chicago
Minnesota
Chicago
Mississippi
Atlanta
Missouri
Kansas City
Montana
Kansas City
Nebraska
Kansas City
Nevada
San Francisco
New Hampshire
Boston
New Jersey
New York
New Mexico
Dallas
New York
Boston/New York
2
North Carolina
Atlanta
North Dakota
Kansas City
Ohio
Chicago
Oklahoma
Dallas
Oregon
San Francisco
Pennsylvania
New York
Puerto Rico
New York
Rhode Island
Boston
South Carolina
Atlanta
South Dakota
Kansas City
Tennessee
Atlanta
Texas
Dallas
Utah
Kansas City
Vermont
Boston
Virginia
Washington, DC/Atlanta
3
Washington
San Francisco
West Virginia
Washington, DC
Wisconsin
Chicago
Wyoming
Kansas City
Virgin Islands
New York
Panama/Limited FLRA jurisdiction
Dallas
All land and water areas east of the continents of North and South America to long. 90
1/4
E, except the Virgin Islands, Panama (limited FLRA jurisdiction), Puerto Rico and coastal islands
Washington
1
San Francisco includes the following California counties: Monterey, Kings, Tulare, Inyo, and all counties north thereof. All counties in California south thereof are within the Los Angeles jurisdiction.
2
New York includes the following counties: Ulster, Sullivan, Greene, Columbia and all counties south thereof. All counties in New York state north thereof are in the jurisdiction of Boston.
3
Washington, DC includes the following counties in Virginia: Alexandria, Fairfax, Fauquier, Loudoun and Prince William. All other counties within Virginia are in the jurisdiction of Atlanta.
[46 FR 45881, Sept. 15, 1981]
Ch. XIV, App. B

# Appendix B to Chapter XIV—Memorandum Describing the Authority and Assigned Responsibilities of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority Under the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute
The statutory authority and responsibility of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Board are stated in section 4108 subsections (1), (2) and (3), of the Foreign Service Labor-Management Relations Statute as follows:

# Section 4108 Functions of the General Counsel
The General Counsel may—
(A) investigate alleged unfair labor practices under this chapter,
(B) file and prosecute complaints under this chapter, and
(C) exercise such other powers of the Board as the Board may prescribe.
This memorandum is intended to describe the statutory authority and set forth the prescribed duties and authority of the General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority under the Foreign Service Statute, effective February 15, 1981.
I.
Case handling—
A.
Unfair labor practice cases.
The General Counsel has full and final authority and responsibility, on behalf of the Board, to accept and investigate charges filed, to enter into and approve the informal settlement of charges, to approve withdrawal requests, to dismiss charges, to determine matters concerning the consolidation and severance of cases before complaint issues, to issue complaints and notices of hearing, to appear before Administrative Law Judges in hearings on complaints and prosecute as provided in the Board's and the General Counsel's rules and regulations, and to initiate and prosecute injunction proceedings as provided for in section 4109(d) of the Foreign Service Statute. After issuance of the Administrative Law Judge's decision, the General Counsel may file exceptions and briefs and appear before the Board in oral argument, subject to the Board's and the General Counsel's rules and regulations.
B.
Compliance actions (injunction proceedings).
The General Counsel is authorized and responsible, on behalf of the Board, to seek and effect compliance with the Board's orders and make such compliance reports to the Board as it may from time to time require.
On behalf of the Board, the General Counsel will, in full accordance with the directions of the Board, initiate and prosecute injunction proceedings as provided in section 4109(d) of the Foreign Service Statute:
Provided however,
That the General Counsel will initiate
and conduct injunction proceedings under section 4109(d) of the Foreign Service Statute only upon approval of the Board.
C.
Representation cases.
The General Counsel is authorized and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, to receive and process, in accordance with the decisions of the Board and with such instructions and rules and regulations as may be issued by the Board from time to time, all petitions filed pursuant to sections 4111 and 4118(c) of the Foreign Service Statute. The General Counsel is also authorized and has responsibility to supervise or conduct elections pursuant to section 4111 of the Foreign Service Statute and to enter into consent election agreements in accordance with section 4111(g) of the Foreign Service Statute.
The authority and responsibility of the General Counsel in representation cases shall extend, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Board and the General Counsel, to all phases of the investigation through the conclusion of the hearing (if a hearing should be necessary to resolve disputed issues), but all matters involving decisional action after such hearings are reserved by the Board to itself. In the event a direction of election should issue by the Board, the authority and responsibility of the General Counsel, as herein prescribed, shall attach to the conduct of the ordered election, the initial determination of the validity of challenges and objections to the conduct of the election and other similar matters, except that if appeals shall be taken from the General Counsel's action on the validity of challenges and objections, such appeals will be directed to and decided by the Board in accordance with its procedural requirements. If challenged ballots would not affect the election results and if no objections are filed within five days after the conduct of the Board-directed election under the provisions of section 4111 of the Foreign Service Statute, the General Counsel is authorized and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, to certify to the parties the results of the election in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Board and the General Counsel.
Appeals from the refusal of the General Counsel to issue a notice of hearing, from the conclusions contained in a report and findings issued by the General Counsel, or from the dismissal by the General Counsel of any petition, will be directed to and decided by the Board, in accordance with its procedural requirements.
In processing election petitions filed pursuant to section 4111 of the Foreign Service Statute and petitions filed pursuant to section 4118(c) of the Foreign Service Statute, the General Counsel is authorized to conduct an appropriate investigation as to the authenticity of the prescribed showing of interest and, upon making a determination to proceed, where appropriate, to supervise or conduct a secret ballot election or certify the validity of a petition for determination of eligibility for dues allotment. After an election, if there are no challenges or objections which require a hearing by the Board, the General Counsel shall certify the results thereof, with appropriate copies lodged in the Washington, DC, files of the Board.
II.
Liaison with other governmental agencies.
The General Counsel is authorized and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, to maintain appropriate and adequate liaison and arrangements with the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor-Management Relations with reference to the financial and other reports required to be filed with the Assistant Secretary pursuant to section 4117 of the Foreign Service Statute and the availability to the Board and the General Counsel of the contents thereof. The General Counsel is authorized and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, to maintain appropriate and adequate liaison with the Foreign Service Grievance Board with respect to functions which may be performed by the Foreign Service Grievance Board.
III. To the extent that the above-described duties, powers and authority rest by statute with the Board, the foregoing statement constitutes a prescription and assignment of such duties, powers and authority, whether or not so specified.
[46 FR 45882, Sept. 15, 1981]
22 CFR Ch. XV (4-1-25 Edition)
African Development Foundation

# CHAPTER XV—AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
Part
Page
1500
Sunshine regulations
447
1501
Organization
449
1502
Availability of records
451
1503
Official seal
453
1504
Employee responsibilities and conduct
455
1506
Collection of claims
455
1507
Rules safeguarding personal information
468
1508
Governmentwide debarment and suspension (nonprocurement)
473
1509
Governmentwide requirements for drug-free workplace (financial assistance)
496
1510
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the African Development Foundation
502
1511-1599
[Reserved]
Pt. 1500

# PART 1500—SUNSHINE REGULATIONS
Sec.
1500.1
Purpose and scope.
1500.2
Policy.
1500.3
Definitions.
1500.4
Open meetings.
1500.5
Grounds on which meetings may be closed.
1500.6
Procedure for announcing meetings.
1500.7
Procedure for closing meetings.
1500.8
Changing the time and place of, and reconsideration of opening or closing a meeting.
1500.9
Transcripts, recording of closed meetings.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 552b.

# Source:
48 FR 55842, Dec. 16, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1500.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this part is to effectuate the provisions of the Government in the Sunshine Act. These procedures apply to meetings of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation.
§ 1500.2
Policy.
It is the policy of the African Development Foundation to provide the public with the fullest practical information regarding its decision-making process, while protecting the rights of individuals and the ability of the Foundation to carry out its responsibilities.
§ 1500.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Board or Board of Directors
means the collegial body that conducts the business of the African Development Foundation as specified in title V, section 507 of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-533 (22 U.S.C. 290 h-5).
Meeting
means the deliberations of a quorum of the Directors of the Foundation required to take action on behalf of the Foundation where such deliberations determine or result in the joint conduct or disposition of official Foundation business, but does not apply to deliberations to take action to open or close a meeting. (See § 1500.5.)
Member
means an individual who belongs to the ADF Board of Directors.
Public Observation
means attendance at any meeting but does not include participation, or attempted participation, in such meeting in any manner.
§ 1500.4
Open meetings.
(a) Members shall not jointly conduct or dispose of Foundation business other than in accordance with these procedures. Every portion of every meeting of the Board of Directors shall be open to public observation, subject to the exceptions provided in § 1500.5.
(b) The Secretary of the Foundation shall be responsible for assuring that ample space, sufficient visibility, and adequate acoustics are provided for public observation of meetings of the Board of Directors.
§ 1500.5
Grounds on which meetings may be closed.
(a) The Foundation shall open every portion of every meeting of the Foundation for public observation, except where the Foundation determines that such portion or portions of its meeting or the disclosure of such information is likely to:
(1) Disclose matters that are:
(i) Specifically authorized under criteria established by an executive order to be kept secret in the interests of national defense on foreign policy, and
(ii) In fact properly classified pursuant to such executive order;
(2) Relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practice of the Foundation;
(3) Disclose matters specifically exempted from disclosure by statute, provided that such statute:
(i) Requires that the matters be withheld from the public in such manner as to leave no discretion on the issue, or
(ii) Has established practical criteria for withholding or refers to particular types of matters to be withheld;
(4) Disclose trade secrets and commercial or financial information which has been obtained from a person and is privileged or confidential;
(5) Involve accusing any person of a crime, or formally censuring any person;
(6) Disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarrented invasion of personal privacy;
(7) Disclose investigatory records compiled for law enforcement purposes,
or information which if written would be contained in such records, but only to the extent that the production of such records or information would:
(i) Interfere with enforcement proceedings,
(ii) Deprive a person of a right to fair trial or an impartial adjudication,
(iii) Constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy,
(iv) Disclose the identity of a confidential source and, in the case of a record compiled by a criminal law enforcement authority in the course of a criminal investigation or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation, confidential information furnished only by the confidential source,
(v) Disclose investigative techniques and procedures, or
(vi) Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel;
(8) Disclose information the premature disclosure of which would be likely to significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action. This shall not apply in any instance where the Foundation has already disclosed to the public the content or nature of its proposed action or where the Foundation is required by law to make such disclosure on its own initiative prior to taking final Foundation action on such proposal;
(9) Specifically concern the Foundation's issuance of a subpoena; the Foundation's participation in a civil action or proceeding, or an arbitration; or an action in a foreign court or international tribunal; or the initiation, conduct, or disposition by the Foundation of a particular case of formal agency adjudication pursuant to the procedures in section 554 of title 5 of the United States Code, or otherwise involving a determination on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
(b) Meetings of the Board of Directors shall not be closed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section when the Foundation finds that the public interest requires that they be open.
§ 1500.6
Procedure for announcing meetings.
(a) In the case of each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Foundation shall make public, at least one week before the meeting, the following information:
(1) Time of the meeting;
(2) Place of the meeting;
(3) Subject matter of the meeting;
(4) Whether the meeting or parts thereof are to be open or closed to the public; and
(5) The name and telephone number of the person designated by the Board to respond to requests for information about the meeting.
(b) The period of one week for the public announcement required by paragraph (a) of this section may be reduced if a majority of the Board of Directors of the Foundation determines by a recorded vote that the Foundation requires that such a meeting be called at an earlier date, in which case the Foundation shall make public announcement of the time, place, and subject matter of such meeting, and whether open or closed to the public, at the earliest practicable time.
(c) Immediately following the public announcement, the Foundation shall publish the announcement in the
Federal Register.
(d) The
earliest practicable time,
as used in this subsection, means as soon as possible, which should not be later than the commencement of the meeting or portion in question.
(e) The Secretary of the Foundation shall use reasonable means to assure that the public is fully informed by the public announcements required by this section. Such public announcements may be made by posting notices in the public areas of the Foundation's headquarters and mailing notices to the persons on a list maintained for those who want to receive such announcements.
§ 1500.7
Procedure for closing meetings.
(a) Action to close a meeting or a portion thereof, pursuant to the exemptions set forth in § 1500.5, shall be taken only when:
(1) A majority of the membership of the Foundation's Board of Directors votes to take such action. That vote shall determine whether or not any portion or portions of a meeting or portions of a series of meetings may be
closed to public, obervation for any of the reasons provided in § 1500.5 and whether or not the public interest nevertheless requires that portion of the meeting or meetings remain open. A single vote may be taken with respect to a series of meetings, a portion or portions of which are proposed to be closed to the public, or with respect to any information concerning such series of meetings, so long as each meeting in such series involves the same particular matters and is scheduled to be held no more than thirty days after the initial meeting in such series. The vote of each Board member participating in such vote shall be recorded, and no proxies shall be allowed.
(2) Whenever any person whose interests may be directly affected by a portion of a meeting requests that the Foundation close such portion to the public for any of the reasons referred to in § 1500.5 (a) (5), (6), or (7), the Foundation, upon request of any one of its Board members, shall take a recorded vote whether to close such portion of the meeting.
(b) Within one day of any vote taken, the Foundation shall make publicly available a written copy of such vote, reflecting the vote of each member on the question, and a full written explanation of the action to close a portion of or the entire meeting, together with a list of persons expected to attend the meeting and their affiliations.
(c) For every closed meeting, the General Counsel of the Foundation shall publicly certify prior to a Board of Directors' vote on closing the meeting that, in his or her opinion, the meeting may be closed to the public, and shall state each relevant exemptive provision. A copy of such certification, together with a statement from the presiding officer of the meeting setting forth the time and place of the meeting and the persons present, shall be retained by the Foundation.
§ 1500.8
Changing the time and place of, and reconsideration of opening or closing a meeting.
The time or place of a Board meeting may be changed following the public announcement only if the Foundation publicly announces such change at the earliest practicable time. The subject matter of a meeting, or the determination of the Foundation to open or close a meeting, or portion of a meeting, to the public, may be changed following the public announcement only if a majority of the Board of Directors determines by a recorded vote that Foundation business so requires and that no earlier announcement of the change was possible, and the Foundation publicly announces such change and the vote of each member upon change at the earliest practicable time.
§ 1500.9
Transcripts, recording of closed meetings.
(a) The Foundation shall maintain a complete transcript or electronic recording adequate to record fully the proceedings of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public.
(b) The Foundation, after review by the General Counsel, shall make promptly available to the public in a place easily accessible to the public the transcript or electronic recording of the discussion of any item on the agenda, or any item of the testimony of any witness received at the Board meeting, except for such item or items of discussion or testimony as the Foundation determines to contain information which may be withheld under § 1500.5. Copies of such transcript, or a transcription of such recording, disclosing the identify of each speaker, shall be furnished to any person at the actual cost of duplication or transcription. The Foundation shall maintain a complete verbatim copy of the transcript or a complete electronic recording of each meeting, or portion of a meeting, closed to the public, for a period of at least two years after such meeting, or until one year after the conclusion of any Foundation proceeding with respect to which the meeting or portion was held, whichever occurs later.
Pt. 1501

# PART 1501—ORGANIZATION

# Substantive Rule of General Applicability
Sec.
1501.1
Introduction.
1501.2
Background.
1501.3
Description of central organization and location of offices.
1501.4
Availability of information pertaining to Foundation operations.
1501.5
Substantive rules of general applicability.

# Authority:
22 U.S.C. 290h; 5 U.S.C. 552.

# Source:
50 FR 18861, May 3, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

# Substantive Rule of General Applicability
§ 1501.1
Introduction.
The regulations of this part are issued pursuant to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S,C. 552.
§ 1501.2
Background.
(a) The African Development Foundation (“ADF”) is a wholly-owned corporation of the United States Government, created by the African Development Foundation Act (title V, Pub. L. 96-533, 94 Stat. 3151 (22 U.S.C. 290h)). It is a non-profit, non-stock issuing, tax-exempt corporation, and is subject to title I of the Government Corporation Control Act (31 U.S.C. 9101
et seq.
).
(b) The primary function of ADF is to extend financial assistance in the form of grants, loans and loan guarantees to African private and public entities to support self-help activities at the local level in African countries, and to fund development research by Africans. Priority shall be given to projects which community groups undertake to foster their own development and which involve maximum feasible participation of the poor. The maximum assistance which may be extended for a single project is $250,000.
§ 1501.3
Description of central organization and location of offices.
(a) The management of ADF is vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson and five other members appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Five of the members are appointed from private life and two from among the officers and employees of agencies of the United States concerned with African affairs. The Board establishes policy for the Foundation and is responsible for its management.
(b) The Board is required to appoint a President of the Foundation upon such terms as it may determine. The President has responsibility for directing the day to day activities of the Foundation. He is assisted by a Vice President, a Congressional liaison officer, a Public Affairs officer, a General Counsel, and the following staff units:
(1)
Office of Administration and Finance.
This office is responsible for the management of the administrative, budgeting, financial and personnel activities of the Foundation.
(2)
Office of Research and Evaluation.
This office is responsible for evaluating, or assisting grantees to evaluate, ADF funded projects; for monitoring evaluations and analyses of grassroots projects conducted by other funding or research organizations; and for identifying and providing assistance to indigenous researchers in Africa working in development projects at the local level.
(3)
Office of Program and Field Operations.
This office is responsible for identifying, reviewing and monitoring projects funded by the Foundation.
(c) The Board is also required to establish an Advisory Council made up of individuals knowledgeable about development activities in Africa, and to consult with the Council at least once each year. The Council shall have not more than 25 members appointed for a period of two years with an option to be reappointed for an additional year.
(d) The Board of Directors and the aforementioned officers, together with the other employees of the Foundation, constitute the central organization of ADF, and are located and function at ADF headquarters, 1724 Massachusetts Avenue NW., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20036. It is anticipated that in the future a field organization will be established with offices in selected cities in Africa, but this has not yet occurred.
§ 1501.4
Availability of information pertaining to Foundation operations.
Rules of procedure and forms used for the funding of ADF projects may be obtained upon application to the Office of Program and Field Operations at ADF
headquarters, 1724 Massachusetts Avenue NW., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20036.
§ 1501.5
Substantive rules of general applicability.
ADF's regulations published under the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act are found in chapter XV of title 22 of the Code of Federal Regulations and the
Federal Register.
These regulations are supplemented from time to time by amendments appearing initially in the
Federal Register.
Pt. 1502

# PART 1502—AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
Sec.
1502.1
Introduction.
1502.2
Definitions.
1502.3
Access to Foundation records.
1502.4
Written requests.
1502.5
Records available at the Foundation.
1502.6
Records of other departments and agencies.
1502.7
Fees.
1502.8
Exemptions.
1502.9
Processing of requests.
1502.10
Judicial review.

# Authority:
Title V of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980, 22 U.S.C. 290h; 5 U.S.C. 552; FOIA Improvement Act of 2016, Public Law 114-185.

# Source:
82 FR 9130, Feb. 3, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1502.1
Introduction.
(a) The United States African Development Foundation makes information about its operations, procedures, and records freely available to the public in accordance with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
(b) The Foundation will make the fullest possible disclosure of its information and identifiable records consistent with the provisions of the Act and the regulations in this part.
(c) The Chief FOIA Officer shall be responsible for the Foundation's compliance with the processing requirements of the Freedom of Information Act.
§ 1502.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following words have the meanings set forth below:
(a)
Act
means the Act of June 5, 1967, sometimes referred to as the “Freedom of Information Act” or the Public Information Section of the Administrative Procedure Act, as amended, Public Law 90-23, 81 Stat. 54, codified at 5 U.S.C. 552.
(b)
Foundation
means the United States African Development Foundation.
(c)
President
means the President of the Foundation.
(d)
Record(s)
includes all books, papers, or other documentary materials made or received by the Foundation in connection with the transaction of its business which have been preserved or are appropriate for preservation by the Foundation as evidence of its organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities, or because of the informational value of the data contained therein. Library or other material acquired and preserved solely for reference or exhibition purposes, and stocks of publications and other documents provided by the Foundation to the public in the normal course of doing business are not included within the definition of the word “records.” The latter will continue to be made available to the public without charge.
§ 1502.3
Access to Foundation records.
Any person desiring to have access to Foundation records may call or apply in person between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. on weekdays (holidays excluded) at the Foundation offices or mail a request to the Foundation at 1400 I Street NW., Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20005, or submit a request by email to
info@usadf.gov
on the Foundation's Web site,
www.usadf.gov
. Requests for access under the Freedom of Information Act should be made to the Chief FOIA Officer at the Foundation offices. If a request is made for copies of any record, the Chief FOIA Officer will assist the person making such request in seeing that such copies are provided according to the rules in this part.
§ 1502.4
Written requests.
In order to facilitate the processing of written requests, every petitioner should:
(a) Address his or her request to: Chief FOIA Officer, United States African Development Foundation, 1400 I Street NW., Suite 1000, Washington, DC 20005.
Both the envelope and the request itself, or the email, should be clearly marked: “Freedom of Information Act Request.”
(b) Identify the desired record by name, title, author, a brief description, or number, and date, as applicable. The identification should be specific enough so that a record can be identified and found without unreasonably burdening or disrupting the operations of the Foundation. If the Foundation determines that a request does not reasonably describe the records sought, the requestor shall be advised what additional information is needed or informed why the request is insufficient.
(c) Include a check or money order to the order of the “United States African Development Foundation” covering the appropriate search and copying fees, or a request for determination of the fee, or a specified amount that the requestor is willing to pay in connection with the FOIA request.
§ 1502.5
Records available at the Foundation.
Records that the FOIA requires be made available for public inspection in an electronic format may be accessed through the Foundation's Web site.
§ 1502.6
Records of other departments and agencies.
Responsive records located by the Foundation which have been originated by, or are primarily the concerns of, another U.S. department or agency will be forwarded to the particular department or agency involved, and the requestor so notified. In response to requests for records or publications published by the Government Printing Office or other government printing activity, the Foundation will refer the petitioner to the appropriate sales office and refund any fee payments which accompanied the request.
§ 1502.7
Fees.
(a)
Authority.
USADF charges for processing FOIA requests in accordance with the Uniform Freedom of Information Act Fee Schedule and Guidelines of the Office of Management and Budget, 52 FR 10012-10020 (March 17, 1987).
(b)
When charged.
Fees shall be charged in accordance with the schedules contained in paragraph (c) of this section for services rendered in responding to requests for Foundation records under this subpart. Requestors may seek a waiver of fees by submitting a written application demonstrating how disclosure of the requested information is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the government and is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requestor. Fees shall also not be charged where they would amount, in the aggregate, for a request or series of related requests, to $25 or less.
(c)
Services charged for and amount charged.
For the services listed below expended in locating or making available records or copies thereof, the following charges shall be assessed:
(1)
Copies.
For copies, $.10 per copy of each page.
(2)
Clerical searches.
For each one quarter hour spent by clerical personnel in excess of the first quarter hour in searching for and producing requested records, $4.75.
(3)
Non-routine, non-clerical searches.
Where the task of determining which records fall within a request and collecting them requires the time of professional or managerial personnel, and where the time required is substantial, for each one quarter hour spent in excess of the first quarter hour, $10.00. No charge shall be made for the time spent in resolving legal or policy issues affecting access to records of known contents.
(4)
Other charges.
When a response to a request requires services or materials other than those described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, the direct cost of such services to the Foundation may be charged, providing the requestor has been given an estimate of such cost before it is incurred.
§ 1502.8
Exemptions.
The categories of records maintained by the Foundation which may be exempted from disclosure are described in 5 U.S.C. 552(b).
§ 1502.9
Processing of requests.
(a)
Processing.
A person who has made a written request for records which meets the requirements of § 1502.4 shall be informed by the Chief FOIA Officer within 20 working days after receipt of the request of the Foundation's decision whether to deny or grant access to the records and the right of the requestor to seek assistance from the Foundation's Chief Public Liaison.
(b)
Denials.
If the Chief FOIA Officer, with the concurrence of the General Counsel, denies a request for records, the requestor will be informed of the name and title of the official responsible for the denial, the reasons for it, and the right to appeal the decision to the President of the Foundation within 90 calendar days of receipt of the denial. The President shall determine any appeal within 20 days of receipt and notify the requestor within the time period of the decision. If the decision is to uphold the denial, the requestor will be informed of the reasons for the decision, of the right to a judicial review of the decision in the federal courts, and of the dispute resolution services offered by the FOIA Public Liaison of the Foundation or the Office of Government Information Services of the National Archives and Records Administration as a non-exclusive alternative to litigation.
(c)
Extension of time.
In unusual circumstances, as defined by the FOIA, to the extent reasonably necessary to the proper processing of requests, the time required to respond to a FOIA request or an appeal may be extended for an additional 10 working days upon written notification to the requestor providing the reasons for the extension. If the extension goes beyond 10 working days, USADF will notify the requestor of services provided by the FOIA Public Liaison and the Office of Government Information Services.
(d)
Expedited processing.
USADF shall process requests and appeals on an expedited basis where the requestor demonstrates a compelling need for the records, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(6)(E)(v). USADF shall make a determination of whether to provide expedited processing, and shall notify the requestor of the determination, within 10 calendar days after the receipt of the request. USADF shall provide expeditious consideration of administrative appeals of determinations of whether to provide expedited processing.
(e)
Confidential commercial information.
Whenever records containing confidential commercial information are requested under the FOIA and USADF determines that it may be required to disclose the records, USADF shall promptly provide written notice to the submitter of the confidential commercial information, in conformity with the procedures set forth in Executive Order 12600, Predisclosure Notification Procedures for Confidential Commercial Information, 3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 235.
§ 1502.10
Judicial review.
On complaint, the district court of the United States in the district in which the complainant resides, or has his/her principal place of business, or in which the agency records are situated, or in the District of Columbia, has jurisdiction to enjoin the Foundation from withholding Foundation records, and to order the production of any agency records improperly withheld from the complainant (5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(B)).
Pt. 1503

# PART 1503—OFFICIAL SEAL
Sec.
1503.1
Authority.
1503.2
Description.
1503.3
Custody and authorization to affix.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 95-533, 94 Stat. 3131 (22 U.S.C. 290h 4(2)(3)).

# Source:
50 FR 18634, May 2, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1503.1
Authority.
Pursuant to section 506(a)(3) of Pub. L. 96-533, the African Development Foundation official seal and design thereof, which accompanies and is made part of this document, is hereby adopted, approved, and judicially noticed.
§ 1503.2
Description.
The official seal of the African Development Foundation is described as follows:
(a) Forming an outer circle is a ring of type in dark blue capital letters spelling the words “AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION—UNITED STATES OF AMERICA;”
(b) Within that circle is an inner circle with the stylized letters ADF in dark blue superimposed on a light grey background.
(c) The official seal of the African Development Foundation when reproduced in black and white and when embossed, is as it appears below.
EC13OC91.009
§ 1503.3
Custody and authorization to affix.
(a) The seal is the official emblem of the African Development Foundation and its use is therefore permitted only as provided in this part.
(b) The seal shall be kept in the custody of the General Counsel, or any other person he authorizes, and should be affixed by him, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President of the African Development Foundation to authenticate records of the Foundation and for other official purposes. The General Counsel may redelegate and authorize redelegation of this authority.
(c) The President of the African Development Foundation shall designate and prescribe by internal written delegation and policies the use of the seal for other publication and display purposes and those Foundation officials authorized to affix the seal for these purposes.
(d) Use by any person or organization outside of the Foundation may be made only with the Foundation's prior written approval. Such request must be made in writing to the General Counsel.
Pt. 1504

# PART 1504—EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 7301.

# Source:
61 FR 6507, Feb. 21, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1504.1
Cross-references to employee ethical conduct standards and financial disclosure regulations.
Directors and other employees of the African Development Foundation are subject to the Standards of Ethical Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch at 5 CFR part 2635, and the executive branch financial disclosure regulations at 5 CFR part 2634.
Pt. 1506

# PART 1506—COLLECTION OF CLAIMS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
1506.1
What is the purpose of this part?
1506.2
What types of claims do these standards and procedures cover?
1506.3
Do these regulations adopt the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS)?
1506.4
What definitions apply to the regulations in this part?
1506.5
Does the application of remedies prescribed in this part preclude USADF from imposing other sanctions or remedies?
1506.6
Will USADF subdivide a claim in excess of $100,000?
1506.7
How does USADF process claims involving fraud?
1506.8
Will an omission by the Agency in complying with this part serve as a debtor's defense against payment?

# Subpart B—Collection
1506.9
What does a collection action entail?
1506.10
What information is included in a written demand for payment?
1506.11
May I request a review of the existence or amount of a claim?
1506.12
What happens if my debt becomes past due?
1506.13
How are interest, penalty, and administrative costs determined?
1506.14
Does interest accrue during the period pending waiver or review?
1506.15
Does USADF contract with other agencies for collection services?
1506.16
Does USADF report delinquent debts to consumer reporting agencies?
1506.17
For what purposes may USADF use my mailing address?
1506.18
Will USADF suspend or revoke my financial assistance or other privileges if I fail to pay my debt?
1506.19
May I pay my debt in installments?

# Subpart C—Salary Offset
1506.20
When and how will USADF collect past due debt through administrative offset?
1506.21
I am a USADF employee; when will the Agency offset my salary to satisfy a debt against me?
1506.22
Am I entitled to notice and hearing prior to salary offset?
1506.23
Will the debt be collected in a lump sum or by installment deductions from my pay account?
1506.24
Are there any limitations on the amount of salary deduction?
1506.25
When will deduction from my pay account begin?
1506.26
What happens if my employment with USADF ends prior to repaying the full amount of my debt?
1506.27
How are interest, penalty, and administrative costs assessed?
1506.28
Will I receive a refund if the claim against me is found to be without merit?
1506.29
Is there a time limit for initiating collection by salary offset?
1506.30
Can USADF use salary offset as a means to collect a claim against me if USADF is not the creditor agency?

# Subpart D—Compromise of Debts
1506.31
May USADF reduce or negotiate a claim amount?
1506.32
If I am jointly and severally liable on a claim, will USADF delay collection action against me until the other debtors pay their proportional share?
1506.33
Under what circumstances will USADF compromise a claim?
1506.34
Can I pay a compromised claim in installments?
1506.35
Will USADF execute a release after full payment of a compromised amount?

# Subpart E—Suspension or Termination of Collection Action
1506.36
Under what circumstances may USADF suspend collection actions?
1506.37
What are the criteria for suspension?
1506.38
Under what circumstances may USADF terminate collection actions?
1506.39
What are the criteria for termination?
1506.40
What actions by the Agency are permitted after termination of collection activity?
1506.41
Can the Agency collect against a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy?

# Subpart F—Discharge of Indebtedness and Reporting Requirements
1506.42
Under what circumstances will USADF discharge a delinquent debt?
1506.43
Will USADF report a discharge of debt to the IRS?

# Subpart G—Referrals to the Department of Justice
1506.44
When will USADF refer claims to the Department of Justice for litigation?

# Subpart H—Mandatory Transfer of Delinquent Debt to the Bureau of Fiscal Services (BFS) of the Department of Treasury
1506.45
When is it mandatory for USADF to transfer debts to BFS?
1506.46
When is USADF not required to transfer a debt to BFS?

# Authority:
Title V of the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1980, 22 U.S.C. 290h; 31 U.S.C. 3701-3719; 5 U.S.C. 5514; 31 CFR part 285; 31 CFR 900-904; 5 CFR 550, subpart K; 31 U.S.C. 3720A.

# Source:
81 FR 95028, Dec. 27, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 1506.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part prescribes the standards and procedures to be used by the United States African Development Foundation (USADF) in the collection and disposal of non-tax debts owed to USADF and the United States. It covers USADF's collection, compromise, suspension, termination, and referral of claims to the Department of Justice.
§ 1506.2
What types of claims do these standards and procedures cover?
These standards and procedures are applicable to all claims and debts for which a statute, regulation or contract does not prescribe different standards or procedures.
§ 1506.3
Do these regulations adopt the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS)?
This part adopts and incorporates all provisions of the FCCS. Except as otherwise provided by law, USADF will conduct administrative actions to collect claims (including offset, compromise, suspension termination, disclosure, and referral) in accordance with the FCCS.
§ 1506.4
What definitions apply to the regulations in this part?
Administrative offset
means the withholding of funds payable by the United States to, or held by the United States for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes to the Government.
Administrative wage garnishment
means the process by which federal agencies require a private sector employer to withhold up to 15% of an employee's disposable pay to satisfy a delinquent debt owed to the Federal government. A court order is not required.
Agency
means the United States African Development Foundation (USADF).
CFO
means the Chief Financial Officer of USADF or the USADF official designated to act as the CFO.
Claim or debt
means an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be due the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency.
Compromise
means the creditor agency's acceptance of an amount less than the full amount of an outstanding debt in full satisfaction of the entire amount of the debt.
Creditor agency
means the Federal agency to which the debt is owed, including a debt collection center when acting on behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt.
Debtor
means an individual, organization, association, corporation, or a State or local government indebted to the United States or a person or entity with legal responsibility for assuming the debtor's obligation.
Delinquent claim or debt
means any claim or debt that has not been paid by the date specified in the agency's Bill for Collection or demand letter for payment or which has not been satisfied in accordance with a repayment agreement.
Discharge
means the release of a debtor from personal liability for the debt. Further collection action is prohibited.
Disposable pay
means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or
in the case of the employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld (other than deductions to execute garnishment orders) in accordance with 5 CFR parts 581 and 582. Among the legally required deductions that must be applied first to determine disposable pay are levies pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code (Title 26, United States Code) and deductions described in 5 CFR 581.105(b) through (f). These deductions include, but are not limited to: Social Security withholdings; Federal, State, and local tax withholdings; health insurance premiums; retirement contributions; and life insurance premiums.
Employee
means a current employee of the Federal Government including a current member of the Armed Forces or a Reserve of the Armed Forces.
Employee salary offset
means the administrative collection of a debt by deductions at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without the employee's consent.
Person
means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, organization, State or local government, or any other type of entity other than a Federal agency, foreign government, or public international organization.
Suspension
means the temporary cessation of an active debt collection pending the occurrence of an anticipated event.
Termination
means the cessation of all active debt collection action for the foreseeable future.
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness or non-recovery of a debt or debt-related charge as permitted or required by law.
Withholding order
means any order for withholding or garnishment of pay issued by USADF or a judicial or administrative body. For the purposes of this Part, wage garnishment order and garnishment order have the same meaning as withholding order.
§ 1506.5
Does the application of remedies prescribed in this part preclude USADF from imposing other sanctions or remedies?
(a) The remedies and sanctions available to USADF under this part for collecting debts are not intended to be exhaustive. USADF may impose, where authorized, other appropriate formal and informal sanctions upon a debtor for inexcusable, prolonged or repeated failure to pay a debt.
(b) Nothing in this part is intended to deter USADF from demanding the return of specific property or the payment of its value.
(c) This part does not supersede or require omission or duplication of administrative proceedings required by contract, statute, regulation or other USADF procedures,
e.g.,
resolution of audit findings under grants or contracts, informal grant appeals, formal grant appeals, or review under a procurement contract.
§ 1506.6
Will USADF subdivide a claim in excess of $100,000?
USADF will not subdivide a claim to avoid the $100,000 limit on the Agency's authority to compromise, suspend, or terminate a debt. A debtor's liability arising from a particular transaction or contract is a single claim.
§ 1506.7
How does USADF process claims involving fraud?
(a) The CFO will refer claims involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim to the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Office of Inspector General (OIG), which has statutory jurisdiction over USADF. The OIG has the responsibility for investigating or referring the matter, where appropriate, to the Department of Justice (DOJ), and/or returning it to USADF for further action.
(b) The CFO will not administratively compromise, terminate, suspend or otherwise dispose of debts involving fraud, the presentation of a false claim or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any party having an interest in the claim without the approval of DOJ.
§ 1506.8
Will an omission by the Agency in complying with this part serve as a debtor's defense against payment?
Failure by USADF to comply with any provision of this Part is not available to a debtor as a defense against payment of a debt.

# Subpart B—Collection
§ 1506.9
What does a collection action entail?
(a) The Agency will undertake prompt action to collect all debts owed to the United States arising out of USADF activities and to reduce debt delinquencies. A collection action may include sending a written notice in the form of a Bill for Collection or demand letter to the debtor's last known address. When necessary to protect the Government's interest (for example, to prevent the running of a statute of limitations), a written demand may be preceded by other appropriate actions under the Federal Claims Collection Standards, including the immediate referral to DOJ for litigation or collection by salary offset. The CFO may contact the debtor by telephone, in person and/or in writing to demand prompt payment, to discuss the debtor's position regarding the existence, amount or repayment of the debt, to inform the debtor of its rights (
e.g.,
to apply for a waiver of indebtedness or to request an administrative review) and of the basis for the debt and the consequences of nonpayment or delay in payment.
(b) The CFO will maintain an administrative file for each claim. The administrative file will document the basis for the debt, all administrative collection actions regarding the debt (including communications to and from the debtor) and the final disposition of the debt. Information on an individual debtor may be disclosed only for purposes consistent with this Part, the Privacy Act of 1974, and other applicable law.
§ 1506.10
What information is included in a written demand for payment?
(a) The Bill for Collection or demand letter shall inform the debtor of:
(1) The amount, nature and basis of the debt;
(2) The right of the debtor to inspect and copy records related to the debt;
(3) The right of the debtor to discuss and propose a repayment agreement;
(4) Any rights available to the debtor to dispute the validity of the debt or to have recovery of the debt waived (citing the available review or waiver authority, the conditions for review or waiver, and the effects of the review or waiver request on the collection of the debt);
(5) The applicable standards for imposition of interest charges and penalty charges and administrative costs that may be assessed against a delinquent debt;
(6) The date by which payment should be made to avoid late charges (
i.e.
interest, penalties, and administrative costs), which may be not more than 30 days from the date that the demand letter is mailed or hand-delivered;
(7) The name, address, and telephone number of a person or office within USADF available to discuss the debt;
(8) The intention of USADF to enforce collection if the debtor fails to pay or otherwise resolve the debt, by taking one or more of the following actions:
(i) Offset from Federal payments otherwise due to the debtor, including income tax refunds, salary, certain benefit payments, retirement, vendor payments, travel reimbursement and advances, and other Federal payments;
(ii) Referral to a private collection agency;
(iii) Report to credit bureaus;
(iv) Administrative wage garnishment;
(v) Referral to the Department of Justice for litigation action if the debt cannot be collected administratively;
(vi) Transfer of any debt delinquent for more than 180 days to the Department of Treasury for collection; and
(vii) Other actions authorized by the FCCS and applicable law.
(9) Any rights available to the debtor to dispute the validity of the debt or to have recovery of the debt waived (citing the available review or waiver authority, the conditions for review or waiver, and the effects of the review or
waiver request on the collection of the debt);
(10) The instructions for making electronic payment; and
(11) Requirement that the debtor advise USADF of any bankruptcy proceeding.
(b) USADF may omit from the written demand for payment one or more of the provisions contained in paragraphs (a)(8) through (11) of this section if USADF determines that any provision is not legally required given the collection remedies to be applied to a particular debt, or which have already been provided by prior notice, applicable agreement, or contract.
(c) USADF will respond promptly to communications from the debtor. Responses will generally be made within 30 days of the receipt of the communication from the debtor.
§ 1506.11
May I request a review of the existence or amount of a claim?
(a) USADF shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an internal review of the existence or amount of the debt. For offset of current Federal salary under 5 U.S.C. 5514, a debtor may also request a hearing. (See subpart C of this part).
(b) A request for a review must be submitted in writing to the appropriate contact office by the payment due date indicated in the Bill for Collection or demand letter. The request must state the basis for the debtor's dispute of the claim and include any relevant documentation in support.
(1) USADF will provide for an internal review of the debt by an appropriate official. The review may include examination of documents, internal discussions with relevant officials and discussions with the debtor, at USADF's discretion.
(2) An oral hearing is not required when USADF determines that the matter can be decided on the documentary record. When an oral hearing is not required, USADF shall accord the debtor a “paper hearing,” that is, a determination of the request for reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.
(3) Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although USADF will carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing.
§ 1506.12
What happens if my debt becomes past due?
USADF will transfer to the Department of Treasury's Bureau of Fiscal Services (BFS) any past due, legally enforceable non-tax debt that has been delinquent for 120 days or more for administrative offset, and delinquent for 180 days or more for other collections. BFS may take appropriate action to collect the debt in accordance with applicable law and regulation. USADF may transfer any past due, legally enforceable debt that has been delinquent for fewer than 120 days to BFS for collection in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
§ 1506.13
How are interest, penalty, and administrative costs determined?
(a)
Interest.
USADF will assess interest on all delinquent debts, unless prohibited by statute, regulation, or contract.
(1) Interest begins to accrue on all debts from the payment due date established in the initial notice to the debtor, or as otherwise provided by law. USADF shall charge an annual rate of interest that is equal to the rate established annually by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717 unless a different rate is necessary to protect the rights of the United States. USADF will notify the debtor of the basis for its finding that a different rate is necessary to protect the interest of the Government.
(2) The rate of interest, as initially assessed, shall remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness. If a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement, interest may be set at the Treasury rate in effect on the date a new agreement is executed.
(3) Interest will not be assessed on interest charges, administrative costs or late payment penalties. However, where a debtor defaults on a previous repayment agreement and interest, administrative costs and penalty charges that had been waived under the defaulted agreement may be reinstated and added to the debt principal under
any new agreement and interest may be charged on the entire amount of the debt.
(b)
Administrative costs of collecting overdue debts.
The costs of USADF's administrative processing of overdue debts, including charges assessed by the Department of Treasury in cross-servicing the debts based on either actual or average cost incurred, will be charged on all debts. These costs include both direct and indirect costs.
(c)
Penalties.
Penalty charges will be assessed at 6 percent a year on any portion of a claim that is delinquent for more than 90 days.
(d)
Allocation of payments.
A partial payment by a debtor will be applied first towards outstanding administrative costs, penalty assessments, accrued interest and then towards the outstanding debt principal.
(e)
Waivers.
(1) USADF will waive the collection of interest and administrative charges on any portion of the debt that is paid within 30 days after the date on which late payment charges begin to accrue. This 30 day period may be extended on a case-by-case basis where the Agency determines that such action is in the best interest of the Government.
(2) USADF may (without regard to the amount of the debt) waive collection of all or part of accrued interest, penalty or administrative costs, where it determines that:
(i) Waiver is justified under the criteria of subpart D; or
(ii) Collection of these charges would be against equity and good conscience or not in the best interest of the United States.
(3) A decision to waive interest, penalty charges or administrative costs may be made at any time.
§ 1506.14
Does interest accrue during the period pending waiver or review?
During the period pending waiver or review, USADF may suspend accrual of interest, penalty charges, and administrative costs on any disputed portion of the debt if it is determined that suspension is in the Agency's best interest or would serve equity and good conscience. Interest, penalty, and administrative costs will not be assessed where a statute or regulation specifically prohibits collection of the debt during the period of the administrative appeal or the Agency review.
§ 1506.15
Does USADF contract with other agencies for collection services?
(a) USADF has entered into a cross-servicing agreement with the Bureau of Fiscal Services (BFS) of the Department of Treasury. BFS will take appropriate action to collect and/or compromise transferred debts in accordance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. BFS may take any of the following collection actions on behalf of USADF:
(1) Send demand letters on U.S. Treasury letterhead and telephone debtors;
(2) Refer accounts to credit bureaus;
(3) Purchase credit reports to assist in the collection effort;
(4) Refer accounts for offset, including tax refund, Federal employee salary, administrative wage garnishment, and general administrative offset under the Treasury Offset Program;
(5) Refer accounts to private collection agencies;
(6) Refer accounts to the Department of Justice for litigation;
(7) Report written off or discharged debt to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on the appropriate Form 1099;
(8) Take any additional steps necessary to enforce recovery; and
(9) Terminate collection action, as appropriate.
(b) BFS will maintain records on debt transferred to it, assure that accounts are updated as necessary, and modify its delinquent debt and debtor records with information obtained from its skip tracking and asset-location services as appropriate. In the event that a referred debtor disputes the validity of a debt or any terms and conditions related to any debt not reduced by judgment, BFS may return the disputed debt to USADF for its determination of debt validity.
§ 1506.16
Does USADF report delinquent debts to consumer reporting agencies?
USADF may report delinquent debts to appropriate credit reporting bureaus and other automated databases
through the cross-servicing agreement with BFS. Any such disclosure will be done in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(e) and the Federal Claims Collection Standards, 31 CFR 901.4, and in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code and Privacy Act 5 U.S.C. 552a.
§ 1506.17
For what purposes may USADF use my mailing address?
When attempting to locate a debtor in order to collect or compromise a debt, USADF may obtain the debtor's mailing address from the Internal Revenue Service. Addresses obtained from the Internal Revenue Service will be used by USADF, its officers, employees, agents or contractors and other Federal agencies only to collect or dispose of debts, and may be disclosed to other agencies and to collection agencies only for collection purposes.
§ 1506.18
Will USADF suspend or revoke my financial assistance or other privileges if I fail to pay my debt?
Unless waived by the Head of the Agency, USADF will not extend financial assistance in the form of a grant, loan, or loan guarantee to any person delinquent on a non-tax debt owed to a Federal agency. The authority to waive the application of this section may be delegated to the Chief Financial Officer and re-delegated. USADF may also suspend or revoke other privileges for any inexcusable, prolonged or repeated failure of a debtor to pay a claim. Additionally, the Agency may suspend or disqualify any contractor, lender, broker, borrower, grantee or other debtor from doing business with USADF or engaging in programs USADF sponsors or funds if a debtor fails to pay its debts to the Government within a reasonable time. Debtors will be notified before such action is taken and applicable debarment procedures will be used.
§ 1506.19
May I pay my debt in installments?
(a) Whenever feasible, USADF shall collect the total amount of a debt (including interest, penalty, and administrative cost) in one lump sum. If the debtor is financially unable to pay the debt in one lump sum, USADF may accept payment in regular installments. USADF will obtain financial statements from debtors who represent that they are unable to pay on one lump sum and independently verify such representations whenever possible. In addition, USADF will obtain a legally enforceable written agreement from the debtor that specifies all of the terms of the arrangement and contains a provision accelerating the debt in the event of a default.
(b) The size and frequency of the installment payments will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the debtor's ability to pay. To the extent possible, the installment payments will be sufficient in size and frequency to liquidate the debt in three years or less.
(c) In appropriate cases, the Agency will obtain security for deferred payments. However, USADF may accept installment payments notwithstanding the refusal of the debtor to execute a written agreement or to give security.

# Subpart C—Administrative Offset
§ 1506.20
When and how will USADF collect past due debt through administrative offset?
(a) Payments otherwise due the debtor from the United States shall be offset from the debt in accordance with 31 CFR 901.3. These may be funds under the control of USADF or other Federal agencies. Collection may be through centralized offset by the Bureau of Fiscal Service (BFS) of the Department of the Treasury.
(b) Such payments include but are not limited to vendor payments, salary, retirement, lump sum payments due upon Federal employment separation, travel reimbursements, tax refunds, loans or other assistance. Offset of Federal salary payments will be in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514.
(c) Before administrative offset is instituted by another Federal agency or the BFS, USADF shall certify in writing to that entity that the debt is past due and legally enforceable and that USADF has complied with all applicable due process and other requirements as described in this part and other Federal law and regulations.
§ 1506.21
I am a USADF employee; when will the Agency offset my salary to satisfy a debt against me?
Any amount advanced to an employee for allowable travel expenses but not used for such purposes is recoverable from the employee, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5705, by salary offset without regard to the due process provisions in § 1506.22. This section does not apply to debts where collection by salary offset is explicitly prohibited by another statute. Collection of debt by salary offset will be in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514.
§ 1506.22
Am I entitled to notice and hearing prior to salary offset?
(a)
Due process requirements—Notice, hearing, written response and decision.
(1) Prior to initiating collection action through salary offset, the Agency will provide all employees that owe a debt to the Government an opportunity to repay in full the amount owed, unless such opportunity will compromise the Government's ultimate ability to collect the debt.
(2) Except as provided otherwise, each employee from whom the Agency proposes to collect a debt by salary offset will receive a written notice 30 days prior to any deductions from pay. The notification will include the Agency's determination that a debt is owed, the amount of the debt, the Agency's intention to collect the debt by means of deductions from the employee's pay account, and the employee's right to request a hearing on the claim.
(3) An employee facing collection of debt by salary offset is entitled to request a hearing on the claim. The request must be filed in writing and signed by the employee. It must be received by the Agency within 15 days of the employee's receipt of the notification of proposed deduction. Late request for a hearing may be accepted if the employee can show that the delay in filing the request was due to circumstances beyond the employee's control.
(4) The Agency will make hearing arrangements that are consistent with law and regulations. Where a hearing is held, the employee is entitled to a written decision on the following:
(i) A determination of the Agency concerning the existence and amount of the debt; and
(ii) A repayment schedule.
(b)
Exceptions to the due process requirements—pay and allowances.
The procedural requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are not applicable to overpayments of salary or allowances in the following situations:
(1) Adjustments of pay arising out of an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deduction from payment, if the amount to be recovered accumulated over four pay periods or less;
(2) Routine intra-agency adjustments in pay or allowances that are made to correct overpayments of pay attributable to clerical or administrative errors or delays in processing pay documents, if the overpayments accrued over four pay periods or less; and
(3) Any adjustment to collect a debt amounting to $50 or less.
(c)
Form of hearing, written response and final decision.
(1) The hearing official will make a decision based upon a review of the claim and any additional material submitted by the debtor. Where the hearing official determines that the validity of the debt turns on an issue of veracity or credibility which cannot be resolved through a review of documentary evidence, the hearing official at his discretion may afford the debtor an opportunity for an oral hearing. An oral hearing will consist of an informal conference before a hearing official in which the employee and the Agency may present evidence, witnesses and arguments. The employee may be represented by an individual of his/her choosing. The Agency shall maintain a summary record of all oral hearings provided under the procedures of this section.
(2) Written decisions rendered pursuant to a hearing will include the hearing official's analysis, findings and conclusions. The decision will be final and binding on the parties.
(d)
Request for waiver.
In certain circumstances, an employee may have a statutory right to request a waiver of overpayment of pay or allowances,
e.g.,
5 U.S.C. 5584 or 5 U.S.C. 5724(i). When
an employee requests a waiver consideration under a right authorized by statue, further collection on the debt will be suspended until a final administrative decision is made on the waiver request.
(e)
Non-waiver of right by payment.
An employee's payment of all or any portion of a debt does not waive any rights that the employee may have under either the procedures in this section or any other provision of law.
§ 1506.23
Will the debt be collected in a lump sum or by installment deductions from my pay account?
A debt will be collected in a lump sum or by installment deductions at established pay intervals from an employee's current pay account. If the employee is financially unable to pay a debt in a lump sum or the amount of debt exceeds 15 percent of disposable pay, collection will be made in installments, unless the employee and the Agency agree to alternative arrangements for payment. Alternative payment schedules must be in writing, signed by both the employee and the CFO and will be documented in the Agency's files.
§ 1506.24
Are there any limitations on the amount of salary deduction?
Installment deduction will be made over the period of active duty or employment. The size and frequency of the installment deductions generally will bear a reasonable relation to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. However, an amount deducted for any period may not exceed 15 percent of the disposable pay from which the deduction is made, unless the employee has agreed in writing to the deduction of a greater amount. If possible, the installment payments should be in amounts sufficient to liquidate the debt within a period of three years or less. Installment payments of less than $50 will be accepted only in the most unusual circumstances.
§ 1506.25
When will deduction from my pay account begin?
(a) Deductions to liquidate an employee's debt will begin on the date stated in the Agency's Bill for Collection or demand letter notice of intention to collect from the employee's current pay, unless the debt has been repaid in full or the employee has filed a timely request for hearing.
(b) If an employee files a timely request for hearing, deductions will begin after the hearing official has provided the employee with a final written decision indicating the amount owed to the Government. Following the decision by the hearing official, the employee will be given 30 days to repay the amount owed prior to collection through salary offset, unless otherwise provided by the hearing official.
§ 1506.26
What happens if my employment with USADF ends prior to repaying the full amount of my debt?
If the employee retires, resigns, or the period of employment ends before collection of the debt is completed, the remainder of the debt will be offset from subsequent payments of any nature due the employee (
e.g.
final salary payment, lump-sum leave, etc.).
§ 1506.27
How are interest, penalty, and administrative costs assessed?
USADF will assess interest, penalties and administrative costs on debts collected under the procedures in this section. Interest, penalty and administrative costs will continue to accrue during the period that the debtor is seeking formal or informal review of the debt or requesting a waiver. The following guidelines apply to the assessment of these costs on debts collected by salary offset:
(a) Interest will be assessed on all debts not collected by the payment due date specified in the Bill for Collection or demand letter. USADF will waive the interest and administrative charges on the portion of the debt that is paid within 30 days after the date on which interest begins to accrue.
(b) Administrative costs will be assessed if the debt is referred to Treasury for cross-servicing.
(c) Deductions by administrative offset normally begin prior to the time for assessment of a penalty. Therefore, a penalty charge will not be assessed unless deductions occur more than 90 days from the due date in the Bill for Collection or demand letter.
§ 1506.28
Will I receive a refund if the claim against me is found to be without merit?
USADF will promptly refund to the employee any amounts paid or deducted pursuant to this section that are subsequently waived or found not owing to the United States Government. Refunds do not bear interest unless specifically authorized by law.
§ 1506.29
Is there a time limit for initiating collection by salary offset?
USADF will not initiate salary offset to collect a debt more than 1 year after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the right to collect the debt were not known and could not have been known through the exercise of reasonable care by the Government official responsible for discovering and collecting such debt.
§ 1506.30
Can USADF use salary offset means to collect a claim against me if USADF is not the creditor agency?
(a) USADF will use salary offset means of collecting debt against one of its employees that is indebted to another agency if requested to do so by that agency. The requesting agency must certify that the USADF employee owes a debt and that the procedural requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, have been met. The creditor agency must also advise USADF of the amount of debt, and the number and amount of the installments to be collected.
(b) Request for salary offset must be submitted to the CFO of USADF.
(c) Processing of the claim by USADF—
(1)
Incomplete claims.
A creditor agency will be required to supply USADF with all the required information prior to any salary offset from the employee's current pay account.
(2)
Complete claims.
If the claim procedures in paragraph (a) of this section have been properly completed, deduction will begin on the next established pay period. USADF will not review the merits of the creditor agency's determinations with respect to the amount or validity of the debt as stated in the debt claim form. USADF will not assess a handling or any other related charge to cover the cost of its processing the claim.
(d) Employees separating from USADF before a debt to another agency is collected—
(1)
Employees separating from Government service.
If an employee begins separation action before USADF collects the total debt due the creditor agency, the following actions will be taken:
(i) To the extent possible, the balance owed the creditor agency will be liquidated from subsequent payments of any nature due the employee from USADF;
(ii) If the total amount of the debt cannot be recovered, USADF will certify to the creditor agency and the employee the total amount of USADF's collection; and
(iii) If USADF is aware that the employee is entitled to payments from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or other similar payments, it will provide such information to the creditor agency so that it can file a certified claim against the payments.
(2)
Employees who transfer to another Federal agency.
If an USADF employee transfers to another Federal agency before USADF collects the total amount due the creditor agency, USADF will certify the total amount of the collection made on the debt. It is the responsibility of the creditor agency to ensure that the collection is resumed by the new employing agency.

# Subpart D—Compromise of Debts
§ 1506.31
May USADF reduce or negotiate a claim amount?
USADF may compromise claims for money or property where the principal balance of a claim, excluding interest, penalty and administrative costs, does not exceed $100,000. Where the claim exceeds $100,000, the authority to accept the compromise rests solely with DOJ. The CFO may reject an offer of compromise in any amount. Where the claim exceeds $100,000, USADF may refer the claim to DOJ for approval with a recommendation to accept an offer of compromise. The referral will be in the form of a Claims Collection
Litigation Report (CCLR) and will outline the basis for USADF's recommendation.
§ 1506.32
If I am jointly and severally liable on a claim, will USADF delay collection action against me until the other debtors pay their proportional share?
When two or more debtors are jointly and severally liable, collection action will not be withheld against one debtor until the other or others pay their proportionate share. The amount of a compromise with one debtor is not precedent in determining compromises from other debtors who have been determined to be jointly and severally liable on the claim.
§ 1506.33
Under what circumstances will USADF compromise a claim?
(a) USADF may compromise a claim pursuant to this section if the debtor does not have the financial ability to pay the full amount of the debt within a reasonable time, or the debtor refuses to pay the claim in full and the Government does not have the ability to enforce collection in full within a reasonable time by collection proceedings. In evaluating the acceptability of a compromise offer, the CFO may consider, among other factors, the following:
(1) Age and health of the debtor;
(2) Present and potential income;
(3) Inheritance prospects;
(4) The possibility that assets have been concealed or improperly transferred by the debtor;
(5) The availability of assets or income which may be realized by enforced collection proceedings; or
(6) The applicable exemptions available to the debtor under State and Federal law in determining the Government's ability to enforce collection.
(b) USADF may compromise a claim, or recommend acceptance of a compromise offer to DOJ, if:
(1) There is significant doubt concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in court for the full amount of the claim, either because of the legal issues involved or a bona fide dispute as to the facts; or
(2) The cost of collection does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount of the debt.
The amount accepted in compromise in such cases will reflect the costs of collection, the probability of prevailing on the legal issues involved, and the likely amount of court costs and attorney's fees in litigation.
(c) To assess the merits of a compromise offer, USADF generally will require a current financial statement from the debtor, executed under penalty of perjury, showing the debtor's assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
(d) Statutory penalties, forfeitures or debt established as an aid to enforcement and compel compliance may be compromised where the CFO determines that the Agency's enforcement policy, in terms of deterrence and securing compliance (both present and future), will be adequately served by accepting the offer.
§ 1506.34
Can I pay a compromised claim in installments?
The debtor may not pay a compromised claim in installments unless the CFO determines that payment in installments is necessary to effect collection.
§ 1506.35
Will USADF execute a release after full payment of a compromised amount?
Upon receipt of a payment in full or a compromised amount of a claim, USADF will prepare and execute a release.

# Subpart E—Suspension or Termination of Collection Action
§ 1506.36
Under what circumstances may USADF suspend collection actions?
USADF may suspend or terminate the Agency's collection actions on a debt where the outstanding debt principal does not exceed $100,000. Unless otherwise provided by DOJ regulations, USADF must refer all requests for suspension of debt exceeding $100,000 to the Commercial Litigation Branch, Civil Division, Department of Justice, for approval. If prior to referral to DOJ, USADF determines that a debt is plainly erroneous or clearly without legal merit, the Agency may terminate collection activity regardless of the amount involved without obtaining
DOJ concurrence. USADF may waive the assessment of interest, penalty charges and administrative costs during the period of the suspension. Suspension will be for an estimated time period and generally will be reviewed at least every six months to ensure the continued propriety of the suspension.
§ 1506.37
What are the criteria for suspension?
(a) USADF may suspend collection action on a debt when:
(1) The debtor cannot be located;
(2) The debtor's financial condition is expected to improve; or
(3) The debtor has requested a waiver or review of the debt.
(b) Based on the current financial condition of the debtor, USADF may suspend collection activity on a debt when the debtor's future prospects justify retention of the claim for periodic review, and:
(1) The applicable statute of limitations has not expired; or
(2) Future collection can be effected by offset; or
(3) The debtor agrees to pay interest on the debt and suspension is likely to enhance the debtor's ability to fully pay the principal amount of the debt with interest at a later date.
(c) USADF will suspend collection activity during the time required for waiver consideration or administrative review prior to agency collection of a debt if the statute under which the request is sought prohibits the Agency from collecting the debt during that time. USADF will ordinarily suspend collection action during the pendency of its consideration of a waiver request or administrative review where statute and regulation preclude refund of amounts collected by the Agency should the debtor prevail.
(d) USADF may suspend collection activities on debts of $100,000 or less during the pendency of a permissive waiver or administrative review when there is no statutory requirement and where it determines that:
(1) There is a reasonable possibility that waiver will be granted and the debtor may be found not owing the debt (in whole or in part);
(2) The Government's interest is protected, if suspension is granted, by the reasonable assurance that the debt can be recovered if the debtor does not prevail; or
(3) Collection of the debt will cause undue hardship to the debtor.
(e) USADF will decline to suspend collection where it determines that the request for waiver or administrative review is frivolous or was made primarily to delay collection.
§ 1506.38
Under what circumstances may USADF terminate collection actions?
USADF may terminate collection actions including accrued interest, penalty and administrative costs, where the debt principal does not exceed $100,000. If the debt exceeds $100,000, USADF must obtain the approval from DOJ to terminate further collection actions. Unless otherwise provided for by DOJ regulations, requests to terminate collection on debts in excess of $100,000 are referred to the Commercial Litigation Branch, Civil Division, Department of Justice, for approval.
§ 1506.39
What are the criteria for termination?
A debt may be terminated where USADF determines that:
(a) The Government cannot collect or enforce collection of any significant sum from the debtor, having due regard for available judicial remedies, the debtor's ability to pay, and the exemptions available to the debtor under State and Federal law;
(b) The debtor cannot be located, there is no security remaining to be liquidated, and the prospects of collecting by offset are too remote to justify retention of the claim;
(c) The cost of further collection action is likely to exceed the amount recoverable;
(d) The claim is determined to be legally without merit or enforcement of the debt is barred by any applicable statute of limitations;
(e) The evidence necessary to prove the claim cannot be produced or the necessary witnesses are unavailable and efforts to induce voluntary payment have failed; or
(f) The debt against the debtor has been discharged in bankruptcy.
§ 1506.40
What actions by the Agency are permitted after termination of collection activity?
Termination ceases active collection of a debt. However, termination does not preclude the Agency from retaining a record of the account for purposes of:
(a) Selling the debt if the CFO determines that such sale is in the best interests of USADF;
(b) Pursuing collection at a subsequent date in the event there is a change in the debtor's status or a new collection tool becomes available;
(c) Offsetting against future income or assets not available at the time of termination of collection activity; or
(d) Screening future applicants for prior indebtedness.
§ 1506.41
Can the Agency collect against a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy?
USADF will generally terminate collection activity on a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy regardless of the amount. However, USADF may continue collection activity subject to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code for any payments provided under a plan of reorganization. The CFO will seek legal advice from the General Counsel's office if s/he believes that any claims or offsets may have survived the discharge of a debtor.

# Subpart F—Discharge of Indebtedness and Reporting Requirements
§ 1506.42
Under what circumstances will USADF discharge a delinquent debt?
Before discharging a delinquent debt, USADF will make a determination that collection action is no longer warranted and request that litigation counsel release any liens of record securing the debt. Discharge of indebtedness is distinct from termination or suspension of collection activity and is governed by the Internal Revenue Code. When collection action on a debt is suspended or terminated, the debt remains delinquent and further collection action may be pursued at a later date in accordance with the standards set forth in this part. When a debt is discharged in full or in part, further collection action is prohibited and USADF must terminate all debt collection activities.
§ 1506.43
Will USADF report a discharge of debt to the IRS?
Upon discharge of a debt, USADF will report the discharge to the IRS in accordance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1. USADF may request the Bureau of Fiscal Services of the Department of Treasury to file such a discharge report to the IRS on the agency's behalf.

# Subpart G—Referrals to the Department of Justice
§ 1506.44
When will USADF refer claims to the Department of Justice for litigation?
Unless otherwise provided by DOJ regulations or procedures, USADF will refer for litigation debts of more than $2,500 but less than $1,000,000 to the Department of Justice's Nationwide Central Intake Facility as required by the Claims Collection Litigation Report (CCLR) instructions. Debts of over $1,000,000 shall be referred to the Civil Division at the Department of Justice. Any debt involving fraud, false claim, and misrepresentation will be referred to the Department of Justice.

# Subpart H—Mandatory Transfer of Delinquent Debt to the Bureau of Fiscal Services (BFS) of the Department of Treasury
§ 1506.45
When is it mandatory for USADF to transfer debts to BFS?
(a) USADF will transfer legally enforceable debt to BFS 90 days after the Bill for Collection or demand letter is issued. A debt is legally enforceable if there has been a final agency determination that the debt is due and there are no legal bars to collection action. A debt is not legally enforceable for purposes of mandatory transfer to BFS if it is the subject of a pending administrative review process required by statute or regulation and collection action during the review process is prohibited.
(b) Except as set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, USADF will transfer any debt covered by this part that is
more than 180 days delinquent to BFS for debt collection services. A debt is 180 days delinquent for purposes of this section if it is 180 days past due and is legally enforceable.
§ 1506.46
When is USADF not required to transfer a debt to BFS?
USADF is not required to transfer a debt to BFS pursuant to § 1506.37(b) during the period of time that the debt:
(a) Is in litigation or foreclosure;
(b) Is scheduled for sale;
(c) Is at a private collection contractor;
(d) Is at a debt collection center if the debt has been referred to a Treasury-designated debt collection center;
(e) Is being collected by internal offset; or
(f) Is covered by an exemption granted by Treasury.
Pt. 1507

# PART 1507—RULES SAFEGUARDING PERSONAL INFORMATION
Sec.
1507.1
Purpose.
1507.2
General policies.
1507.3
Definitions.
1507.4
Conditions of disclosure.
1507.5
Accounting for disclosure of records.
1507.6
Access to records.
1507.7
Contents of record systems.
1507.8
Fees.
1507.9
Judicial review.
1507.10
Exemptions.
1507.11
Mailing list.
1507.12
Criminal penalties.
1507.13
Reports.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 522a.

# Source:
53 FR 40411, Oct. 17, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1507.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth the basic policies of the African Development Foundation (“the Foundation” or “ADF”) governing the maintenance of systems of records containing personal information as defined in the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a).
§ 1507.2
General policies.
It is the policy of the Foundation to safeguard the right of privacy of any individual as to whom the Foundation maintains personal information in any records system, and to provide such individuals with appropriate and complete access to such records, including adequate opportunity to correct any errors in said records. It is further the policy of the Foundation to maintain its records in such a fashion that the information contained therein is, and remains, material and relevant to the purposes for which it is collected. Information in such records will be collected, maintained, used or disseminated in a manner that assures that such action is for a necessary and lawful purpose, and that adequate safeguards are provided to prevent misuse of such information. Exemptions from records requirements provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a will be permitted only where an important public policy need for such exemptions has been determined pursuant to specific statutory authority.
§ 1507.3
Definitions.
(a)
Record
means any document, collection, or grouping of information about an individual maintained by the Foundation, including but not limited to information regarding education, financial transactions, medical history, criminal or employment history, or any other personal information which contains the name or personal identification number, symbol, photograph, or other identifying particular assigned to such individual, such as a finger or voiceprint.
(b)
System of Records
means a group of any records under the control of the Foundation from which information is retrieved by use of the name of an individual or by some identifying particular assigned to the individual.
(c)
Routine Use
means, with respect to the disclosure of a record, the use of such record for a purpose which is compatible with the purpose for which it was collected.
(d) The term
Foundation
means the African Development Foundation or any component thereof.
(e) The term
individual
means any citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted to permanent residence.
(f) The term
maintain
includes the maintenance, collection, use or dissemination of any record.
(g) The term
Act
means the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a) as amended from time to time.
§ 1507.4
Conditions of disclosure.
The Foundation will not disclose any record contained in a system of records by any means of communication to any person or any other agency except by written request or prior written consent of the individual to whom the record pertains or his or her agent or attorney, unless such disclosure is:
(a) To those officers and employees of the Foundation who have a need for the records in the official performance of their duties;
(b) Required under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552);
(c) For a routine use of the record compatible with the purpose for which it was collected;
(d) To the Bureau of the Census for purpose of planning or carrying out a census or survey or related activity pursuant to title 13, United States Code;
(e) To a recipient who has provided the Foundation with advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record, and the record is to be transferred to a form that is not individually identifiable;
(f) To the National Archives of the United States as a record which has sufficient historical or other value to warrant its continued preservation by the U.S. Government, or for evaluation by the Administrator of General Services, or designee, to determine whether the record has such value;
(g) To another agency or to an instrumentality of any governmental jurisdiction within or under the control of the United States for a civil or criminal law enforcement activity if the activity is authorized by law, and if the head of the agency or instrumentality has made a written request to the Foundation specifying the particular portion desired and the law enforcement activity for which the record is sought;
(h) To a person, pursuant to a showing of compelling circumstances affecting the health or safety of an individual, if, promptly following such disclosure, notification is transmitted to the last known address of the individual to whom the record pertains;
(i) To either House of Congress, or, to the extent of matters within its jurisdiction, any committee or subcommittee thereof, any joint committee of Congress or subcommittee of any such joint committee;
(j) To the Comptroller General, or any authorized representative, in the course of the performance of the duties of the General Accounting Office; or
(k) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. If any record disclosed under compulsory legal process is subsequently made public by the court which issued it, the Foundation must make a reasonable effort to notify the individual to whom the record pertains of such disclosure.
(l) To consumer reporting agencies as defined in 31 U.S.C. 370(a)(3) in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711, and under contracts for collection services as authorized in 31 U.S.C. 3718.
§ 1507.5
Accounting for disclosure of records.
(a) With respect to each system of records under ADF control, the Foundation will keep an accurate accounting of routine disclosures, except those made to employees of the Foundation in the normal course of duties or pursuant to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act. Such accounting shall contain the following:
(1) The date, nature and purpose of each disclosure, and the name and address of the person or agency to whom the disclosure is made:
(2) Sufficient information to permit the construction of a listing of all disclosures at appropriate periodic intervals; and
(3) The justification or basis upon which any release was made including any written documentation required.
(b) The Foundation will retain the accounting made under this section for at least 5 years or the life of the record, whichever is longer, after the disclosure for which the accounting is made.
(c) Except for disclosure made under paragraph (g) of § 1503.3, the Foundation will make the accounting under paragraph (a) of this section available
to the individual named in the record at his or her request.
(d) The Foundation will inform any person or other agency about any correction or notation of dispute made by the agency of any record that has been disclosed to the person or agency if an accounting of the disclosure was made.
§ 1507.6
Access to records.
(a) Except as otherwise provided by law or regulation, any individual, upon request made either in writing or in person during regular business hours, shall be provided access to his or her record or to any information pertaining to him or her which is contained in a system of records maintained by the Foundation. The individual will be permitted to review the record and have a copy made of all or any portion thereof in a form comprehensible to him or her. Nothing in 5 U.S.C. 552a, however, allows an individual access to any information compiled in reasonable anticipation of a civil action or proceeding.
(b) An individual will be notified, upon request, if any Foundation system of records contains a record pertaining to him or her. Such request may be made in person during regular business hours, or in writing over the signature of the person making the request. Individuals requesting the information will be required to identify themselves by providing their names, addresses, and a signature. If they are requesting disclosure in person, they are also required to show an identification card, such as a drivers license, containing a photo and a sample signature. If the request is received through the mail, the Foundation may request such information as may be necessary to assure that the requesting individual is properly identified. This may include a requirement that the request be notarized with a notation that the notary received an acknowledgement of identity from the requester.
(c) A record may be disclosed to a representative of the person to whom a record relates when the representative is authorized in writing by such person to have access.
(d) Requests for access to or copies of records should contain, at a minimum, identifying information needed to locate any given record, and a brief description of the item or items of information required. If the individual wishes access to specific documents, the request should identify or describe, as nearly as possible, such documents. The request should be made to the Director, Administration and Finance, African Development Foundation, 1625 Massachusetts Avenue NW., Suite 600, Washington, DC 20036. Personal contacts should normally be made during the regular duty hours of the officer concerned, which are 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
(e) A request made in person will be promptly complied with if the records sought are in the immediate custody of the Foundation. Mail or personal requests for documents which are not in the immediate custody of ADF or which are otherwise not immediately available, will be acknowledged within ten working days of receipt, and the records will be provided as promptly thereafter as possible.
(f) Special procedures may be established by the President of the Foundation governing the disclosure to an individual of his or her medical records, including psychological records.
(g) Any individual may request the Director, Administration and Finance, to amend any Foundation record pertaining to him or her. Not later than 10 working days after the date of receipt of such request, the Director, Administration and Finance, or his/her designee, will acknowledge such receipt in writing. Promptly after acknowledging receipt of a request, the Director, Administration and Finance or his/her designee will:
(1) Correct any portion of the record which the individual believes is not accurate, relevant, timely, or complete; or
(2) Inform the individual of the Foundation's refusal to amend the record in accordance with the request, the reason for the refusal, the procedures by which the individual may request a review of that refusal by the President of the Foundation, or his/her designee, and the name and address of such official; or
(3) Refer the request to the agency that has control of and maintains the record when the record requested is not
the property of the Foundation, but of the controlling agency.
(h) Any individual who disagrees with the refusal of the Director, Administration and Finance to amend his or her record may request a review of that refusal. Such request for review must be made within 30 days after receipt by the requester of the initial refusal to amend. The President of the Foundation, or designee, will complete such review not later than 30 working days from the date on which the individual requests such review, and make a final determination, unless for good cause shown, the President or designee extends such 30-day period and notifies the requester in writing that additional time is required to complete the review. If, after review, the President or designee refuses to amend the record in accordance with the request, the individual will be advised of the right to file with the Foundation a concise statement setting forth the reasons for his or her disagreement with the refusal, and also advised of the provisions in the Act for judicial review of the President's determination.
(i) In any disclosure containing information about which the individual has filed a statement under paragraph (g) of this section, the Foundation will clearly note any part of the record which is disputed and provide copies of the statement and, if the Foundation deems it appropriate, copies of a concise statement of the Foundation's reasons for not making the amendment requested, to persons or other agencies to whom the disputed record has been disclosed.
§ 1507.7
Contents of records systems.
(a) The Foundation will maintain in its records only such information about an individual as is accurate, relevant, and necessary to accomplish the purpose for which it was acquired as authorized by statute or Executive Order.
(b) The Foundation will collect information, to the greatest extent practicable, directly from the individual to whom the record pertains when the information may result in adverse determinations about the individual's rights, benefits and privileges under Federal programs.
(c) The Foundation will inform each individual whom it asks to supply information on any form which it uses to collect the information, or on a separate form that can be retained by the individual, of:
(1) The authority which authorizes the solicitation of the information and whether provision of such information is mandatory or voluntary;
(2) The purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used;
(3) The routine uses which may be made of the information, as published pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section; and
(4) The effects on the individual, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information.
(d) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (k) of this section, the Foundation will publish in the
Federal Register,
at least a notice of the existence and character of its sytem(s) of records upon establishment or revision. This notice will include:
(1) The name and location of the system or systems;
(2) The categories of individuals on whom records are maintained in the system or systems;
(3) The categories of records maintained in the system or sytems;
(4) Each routine use of the records contained in the system or systems, including the categories of users, and the purpose of such use;
(5) The policies and practices of the Foundation regarding storage, retrievability, access controls, retention, and disposal of the record;
(6) The title and business address of the Foundation official or officials responsible for the system or systems of records;
(7) The Foundation's procedures whereby an individual can be notified at his or her request if the system or systems of records contains a record pertaining to him or her;
(8) The Foundation's procedures whereby an individual can be notified at him or her request how he or she can gain access to any record pertaining to him or her contained in the system or systems of records, and how he or she can contest its content; and
(9) The categories of sources of records in the system or systems.
(e) All records used by the Foundation in making any determination about any individual will be maintained with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the individual in the determination.
(f) Before disseminating any record about an individual to any person other than an agency or pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552, the Foundation will make reasonable efforts to assure that such records are accurate, complete, timely, and relevant for Foundation purposes.
(g) The Foundation will maintain no record describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States unless expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the record is maintained, or unless pertinent to, and within the scope of, an authorized law enforcement activity.
(h) The Foundation will establish rules of conduct for persons involved in the design, development, operation, or maintenance of any system of records, or in maintaining any record. Each such person will be instructed regarding such rules and the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a. The instruction will include any other rules and procedures adopted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a, and the penalties provided for noncompliance.
(i) The Foundation will establish appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to insure the security and confidentiality of records and to protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to their security or integrity which could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to any individual on whom information is maintained.
(j) At least 30 days prior to the publication of the notice in the
Federal Register
regarding the routine use of the records contained in the Foundation's system or systems of records, including the categories of users and the purpose of such use pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, the Foundation will also:
(1) Publish a notice in the
Federal Register
of any new or revised use of the information in the system or systems maintained by the Foundation; and
(2) Provide an opportunity for interested persons to submit written data, views, or arguments to the Foundation.
§ 1507.8
Fees.
Fees to be charged, if any, to any individual for making copies of his or her record will be as follows:
(a) Photocopy reproductions from all types of copying processes, each reproduction image, $0.10 per page.
(b) Where the Foundation undertakes to perform for an individual making a request, or for any other person, services which are very clearly not required to be performed under section 552a, title 5, United States Code, either voluntarily or because such services are required by some other law (e.g., the formal certification of records as true copies, attestation under the seal of the Foundation, etc.), the question of charging fees for such services will be determined by the Director of Administration and Finance, in light of the Federal user charge statute (31 U.S.C. 483a), and any other applicable law.
(c) No fees shall be charged for search time expended by the Foundation to produce a record.
§ 1507.9
Judicial review.
Any person may file a complaint against the Foundation in the appropriate U.S. district court, as provided in 5 U.S.C. 552a(g), whenever the Foundation:
(a) Makes a determination not to amend an individual's record in accordance with his or her request, or fails to make such review in conformity with that section; or
(b) Refuses to comply with an individual's request; or
(c) Fails to maintain any record concerning an individual with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is necessary to assure fairness in any determination relating to the qualifications, character, rights or opportunities of, or benefits to the individual that may be made on the basis of such record, and consequently a determination is made which is adverse to the individual; or
(d) Fails to comply with any other provision of 5 U.S.C. 552a, or any Foundation regulation promulgated thereunder, in any such a way as to have an adverse effect on an individual.
§ 1507.10
Exemptions.
No Foundation system or systems of records, as such, are exempted from the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a, as permitted under certain conditions by 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) and (k).
§ 1507.11
Mailing list.
An individual's name and address may not be sold or rented by the Foundation unless such action is specifically authorized by law. This section does not require the withholding of names and addresses otherwise permitted to be made public.
§ 1507.12
Criminal penalties.
Section 552a(e), title 5, United States Code, provides that:
(a) Any officer or employee of the Foundation, who, by virtue of his or her employment or official position, has possession of, or access to, Foundation records which contain individually identifiable information, the disclosure of which is prohibited by 5 U.S.C. 552a, and who knowing that disclosure of the specific material is so prohibited, willfully discloses the material in any manner to any person or agency not entitled to receive it, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.
(b) Any officer or employee of the Foundation who willfully maintains a system of records without meeting the notice requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.
(c) Any person who knowingly and willfully requests or obtains any record concerning an individual from the Foundation under false pretenses shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than $5,000.
§ 1507.13
Reports.
(a) The Foundation shall provide to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget advance notice of any proposal to establish or alter any system or records as defined herein. This report will be submitted in accordance with guidelines provided by the Office of Management and Budget.
(b) If at any time Foundation system or systems of records is determined to be exempt from the application of 5 U.S.C. 552a in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a (j) and (k), the records contained in such system or systems will be separately listed and reported to the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with the then prevailing guidelines and instructions of that office.
Pt. 1508

# PART 1508—GOVERNMENTWIDE DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION (NONPROCUREMENT)
Sec.
1508.25
How is this part organized?
1508.50
How is this part written?
1508.75
Do terms in this part have special meanings?

# Subpart A—General
1508.100
What does this part do?
1508.105
Does this part apply to me?
1508.110
What is the purpose of the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system?
1508.115
How does an exclusion restrict a person's involvement in covered transactions?
1508.120
May we grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
1508.125
Does an exclusion under the nonprocurement system affect a person's eligibility for Federal procurement contracts?
1508.130
Does exclusion under the Federal procurement system affect a person's eligibility to participate in nonprocurement transactions?
1508.135
May the African Development Foundation exclude a person who is not currently participating in a nonprocurement transaction?
1508.140
How do I know if a person is excluded?
1508.145
Does this part address persons who are disqualified, as well as those who are excluded from nonprocurement transactions?

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
1508.200
What is a covered transaction?
1508.205
Why is it important to know if a particular transaction is a covered transaction?
1508.210
Which nonprocurement transactions are covered transactions?
1508.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
1508.220
Are any procurement contracts included as covered transactions?
1508.225
How do I know if a transaction in which I may participate is a covered transaction?

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions

# Doing Business With Other Persons
1508.300
What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier?
1508.305
May I enter into a covered transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
1508.310
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes a person with whom I am already doing business in a covered transaction?
1508.315
May I use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction?
1508.320
Must I verify that principals of my covered transactions are eligible to participate?
1508.325
What happens if I do business with an excluded person in a covered transaction?
1508.330
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?

# Disclosing Information—Primary Tier Participants
1508.335
What information must I provide before entering into a covered transaction with the African Development Foundation?
1508.340
If I disclose unfavorable information required under § 1508.335, will I be prevented from participating in the transaction?
1508.345
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 1508.335?
1508.350
What must I do if I learn of the information required under § 1508.335 after entering into a covered transaction with the African Development Foundation?

# Disclosing Information—Lower Tier Participants
1508.355
What information must I provide to a higher tier participant before entering into a covered transaction with that participant?
1508.360
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 1508.355?
1508.365
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 1508.355 after entering into a covered transaction with a higher tier participant?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of ADF Officials Regarding Transactions
1508.400
May I enter into a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
1508.405
May I enter into a covered transaction with a participant if a principal of the transaction is excluded?
1508.410
May I approve a participant's use of the services of an excluded person?
1508.415
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes the participant or a principal after I enter into a covered transaction?
1508.420
May I approve a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person at a lower tier?
1508.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
1508.430
How do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
1508.435
What must I require of a primary tier participant?
1508.440
What method do I use to communicate those requirements to participants?
1508.445
What action may I take if a primary tier participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person?
1508.450
What action may I take if a primary tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 1508.335?
1508.455
What may I do if a lower tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 1508.355 to the next higher tier?

# Subpart E—Excluded Parties List System
1508.500
What is the purpose of the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)?
1508.505
Who uses the EPLS?
1508.510
Who maintains the EPLS?
1508.515
What specific information is in the EPLS?
1508.520
Who places the information into the EPLS?
1508.525
Whom do I ask if I have questions about a person in the EPLS?
1508.530
Where can I find the EPLS?

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
1508.600
How do suspension and debarment actions start?
1508.605
How does suspension differ from debarment?
1508.610
What procedures does the African Development Foundation use in suspension and debarment actions?
1508.615
How does the African Development Foundation notify a person of a suspension and debarment action?
1508.620
Do Federal agencies coordinate suspension and debarment actions?
1508.625
What is the scope of a suspension or debarment action?
1508.630
May the African Development Foundation impute the conduct of one person to another?
1508.635
May the African Development Foundation settle a debarment or suspension action?
1508.640
May a settlement include a voluntary exclusion?
1508.645
Do other Federal agencies know if the African Development Foundation agrees to a voluntary exclusion?

# Subpart G—Suspension
1508.700
When may the suspending official issue a suspension?
1508.705
What does the suspending official consider in issuing a suspension?
1508.710
When does a suspension take effect?
1508.715
What notice does the suspending official give me if I am suspended?
1508.720
How may I contest a suspension?
1508.725
How much time do I have to contest a suspension?
1508.730
What information must I provide to the suspending official if I contest a suspension?
1508.735
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the suspension is based?
1508.740
Are suspension proceedings formal?
1508.745
How is fact-finding conducted?
1508.750
What does the suspending official consider in deciding whether to continue or terminate my suspension?
1508.755
When will I know whether the suspension is continued or terminated?
1508.760
How long may my suspension last?

# Subpart H—Debarment
1508.800
What are the causes for debarment?
1508.805
What notice does the debarring official give me if I am proposed for debarment?
1508.810
When does a debarment take effect?
1508.815
How may I contest a proposed debarment?
1508.820
How much time do I have to contest a proposed debarment?
1508.825
What information must I provide to the debarring official if I contest a proposed debarment?
1508.830
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the proposed debarment is based?
1508.835
Are debarment proceedings formal?
1508.840
How is fact-finding conducted?
1508.845
What does the debarring official consider in deciding whether to debar me?
1508.850
What is the standard of proof in a debarment action?
1508.855
Who has the burden of proof in a debarment action?
1508.860
What factors may influence the debarring official's decision?
1508.865
How long may my debarment last?
1508.870
When do I know if the debarring official debars me?
1508.875
May I ask the debarring official to reconsider a decision to debar me?
1508.880
What factors may influence the debarring official during reconsideration?
1508.885
May the debarring official extend a debarment?

# Subpart I—Definitions
1508.900
Adequate evidence.
1508.905
Affiliate.
1508.910
Agency.
1508.915
Agent or representative.
1508.920
Civil judgment.
1508.925
Conviction.
1508.930
Debarment.
1508.935
Debarring official.
1508.940
Disqualified.
1508.945
Excluded or exclusion.
1508.950
Excluded Parties List System.
1508.955
Indictment.
1508.960
Ineligible or ineligibility.
1508.965
Legal proceedings.
1508.970
Nonprocurement transaction.
1508.975
Notice.
1508.980
Participant.
1508.985
Person.
1508.990
Preponderance of the evidence.
1508.995
Principal.
1508.1000
Respondent.
1508.1005
State.
1508.1010
Suspending official.
1508.1015
Suspension.
1508.1020
Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.
Subpart J [Reserved]
Appendix to Part 1508—Covered Transactions

# Authority:
Sec. 2455, Pub.L. 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327; E.O. 12549, 3CFR, 1986 Comp., p.89; E.O. 12689, 3CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235.

# Source:
68 FR 66590, 66592, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1508.25
How is this part organized?
(a) This part is subdivided into ten subparts. Each subpart contains information related to a broad topic or specific audience with special responsibilities, as shown in the following table:
In subpart . . .
You will find provisions related to . . .
A
general information about this rule.
B
the types of ADF transactions that are covered by the Governmentwide nonprocurement suspension and debarment system.
C
the responsibilities of persons who participate in covered transactions.
D
the responsibilities of ADF officials who are authorized to enter into covered transactions.
E
the responsibilities of Federal agencies for the
Excluded Parties List System
(Disseminated by the General Services Administration).
F
the general principles governing suspension, debarment, voluntary exclusion and settlement.
G
suspension actions.
H
debarment actions.
I
definitions of terms used in this part.
J
[Reserved]
(b) The following table shows which subparts may be of special interest to you, depending on who you are:
If you are . . .
See subpart(s) . . .
(1) a participant or principal in a nonprocurement transaction
A, B, C, and I.
(2) a respondent in a suspension action
A, B, F, G and I.
(3) a respondent in a debarment action
A, B, F, H and I.
(4) a suspending official
A, B, D, E, F, G and I.
(5) a debarring official
A, B, D, E, F, H and I.
(6) a (n) ADF official authorized to enter into a covered transaction
A, B, D, E and I.
(7) Reserved
J.
§ 1508.50
How is this part written?
(a) This part uses a “plain language” format to make it easier for the general public and business community to use. The section headings and text, often in the form of questions and answers, must be read together.
(b) Pronouns used within this part, such as “I” and “you,” change from subpart to subpart depending on the audience being addressed. The pronoun “we” always is the African Development Foundation.
(c) The “Covered Transactions” diagram in the appendix to this part shows the levels or “tiers” at which the African Development Foundation enforces an exclusion under this part.
§ 1508.75
Do terms in this part have special meanings?
This part uses terms throughout the text that have special meaning. Those terms are defined in Subpart I of this part. For example, three important terms are—
(a)
Exclusion or excluded,
which refers only to discretionary actions taken by a suspending or debarring official under this part or the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4);
(b)
Disqualification or disqualified,
which refers to prohibitions under specific statutes, executive orders (other than Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689), or other authorities. Disqualifications frequently are not subject to the discretion of an agency official, may have a different scope than exclusions, or have special conditions that apply to the disqualification; and
(c)
Ineligibility or ineligible,
which generally refers to a person who is either excluded or disqualified.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1508.100
What does this part do?
This part adopts a governmentwide system of debarment and suspension for ADF nonprocurement activities. It also provides for reciprocal exclusion of persons who have been excluded under the Federal Acquisition Regulation, and provides for the consolidated listing of all persons who are excluded, or disqualified by statute, executive order, or other legal authority. This part satisfies the requirements in section 3 of Executive Order 12549, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1986 Comp., p. 189), Executive Order 12689, “Debarment and Suspension” (3 CFR 1989 Comp., p. 235) and 31 U.S.C. 6101 note (Section 2455, Public Law 103-355, 108 Stat. 3327).
§ 1508.105
Does this part apply to me?
Portions of this part (see table at § 1508.25(b)) apply to you if you are a(n)—
(a) Person who has been, is, or may reasonably be expected to be, a participant or principal in a covered transaction;
(b) Respondent (a person against whom the African Development Foundation has initiated a debarment or suspension action);
(c) ADF debarring or suspending official; or
(d) ADF official who is authorized to enter into covered transactions with non-Federal parties.
§ 1508.110
What is the purpose of the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system?
(a) To protect the public interest, the Federal Government ensures the integrity of Federal programs by conducting business only with responsible persons.
(b) A Federal agency uses the nonprocurement debarment and suspension system to exclude from Federal programs persons who are not presently responsible.
(c) An exclusion is a serious action that a Federal agency may take only to protect the public interest. A Federal agency may not exclude a person or commodity for the purposes of punishment.
§ 1508.115
How does an exclusion restrict a person's involvement in covered transactions?
With the exceptions stated in §§ 1508.120, 1508.315, and 1508.420, a person who is excluded by the African Development Foundation or any other Federal agency may not:
(a) Be a participant in a(n) ADF transaction that is a covered transaction under subpart B of this part;
(b) Be a participant in a transaction of any other Federal agency that is a covered transaction under that agency's regulation for debarment and suspension; or
(c) Act as a principal of a person participating in one of those covered transactions.
§ 1508.120
May we grant an exception to let an excluded person participate in a covered transaction?
(a) The ADF President may grant an exception permitting an excluded person to participate in a particular covered transaction. If the ADF President grants an exception, the exception must be in writing and state the reason(s) for deviating from the governmentwide policy in Executive Order 12549.
(b) An exception granted by one agency for an excluded person does not extend to the covered transactions of another agency.
§ 1508.125
Does an exclusion under the nonprocurement system affect a person's eligibility for Federal procurement contracts?
If any Federal agency excludes a person under its nonprocurement common rule on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in Federal procurement transactions under the FAR. Therefore, an exclusion under this part has reciprocal effect in Federal procurement transactions.
§ 1508.130
Does exclusion under the Federal procurement system affect a person's eligibility to participate in nonprocurement transactions?
If any Federal agency excludes a person under the FAR on or after August 25, 1995, the excluded person is also ineligible to participate in nonprocurement covered transactions under this part. Therefore, an exclusion under the FAR has reciprocal effect in Federal nonprocurement transactions.
§ 1508.135
May the African Development Foundation exclude a person who is not currently participating in a nonprocurement transaction?
Given a cause that justifies an exclusion under this part, we may exclude any person who has been involved, is currently involved, or may reasonably be expected to be involved in a covered transaction.
§ 1508.140
How do I know if a person is excluded?
Check the
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
to determine whether a person is excluded. The General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the
EPLS
and makes it available, as detailed in subpart E of this part. When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters
the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.
§ 1508.145
Does this part address persons who are disqualified, as well as those who are excluded from nonprocurement transactions?
Except if provided for in Subpart J of this part, this part—
(a) Addresses disqualified persons only to—
(1) Provide for their inclusion in the
EPLS;
and
(2) State responsibilities of Federal agencies and participants to check for disqualified persons before entering into covered transactions.
(b) Does not specify the—
(1) ADF transactions for which a disqualified person is ineligible. Those transactions vary on a case-by-case basis, because they depend on the language of the specific statute, Executive order, or regulation that caused the disqualification;
(2) Entities to which the disqualification applies; or
(3) Process that the agency uses to disqualify a person. Unlike exclusion, disqualification is frequently not a discretionary action that a Federal agency takes.

# Subpart B—Covered Transactions
§ 1508.200
What is a covered transaction?
A covered transaction is a nonprocurement or procurement transaction that is subject to the prohibitions of this part. It may be a transaction at—
(a) The primary tier, between a Federal agency and a person (see appendix to this part); or
(b) A lower tier, between a participant in a covered transaction and another person.
§ 1508.205
Why is it important if a particular transaction is a covered transaction?
The importance of a covered transaction depends upon who you are.
(a) As a participant in the transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in Subpart C of this part. Those include responsibilities to the person or Federal agency at the next higher tier from whom you received the transaction, if any. They also include responsibilities if you subsequently enter into other covered transactions with persons at the next lower tier.
(b) As a Federal official who enters into a primary tier transaction, you have the responsibilities laid out in subpart D of this part.
(c) As an excluded person, you may not be a participant or principal in the transaction unless—
(1) The person who entered into the transaction with you allows you to continue your involvement in a transaction that predates your exclusion, as permitted under § 1508.310 or § 1508.415; or
(2) A(n) ADF official obtains an exception from the ADF President to allow you to be involved in the transaction, as permitted under § 1508.120.
§ 1508.210
Which nonprocurement transactions are covered transactions?
All nonprocurement transactions, as defined in § 1508.970, are covered transactions unless listed in § 1508.215. (See appendix to this part.)
§ 1508.215
Which nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions?
The following types of nonprocurement transactions are not covered transactions:
(a) A direct award to—
(1) A foreign government or foreign governmental entity;
(2) A public international organization;
(3) An entity owned (in whole or in part) or controlled by a foreign government; or
(4) Any other entity consisting wholly or partially of one or more foreign governments or foreign governmental entities.
(b) A benefit to an individual as a personal entitlement without regard to the individual's present responsibility (but benefits received in an individual's business capacity are not excepted). For example, if a person receives social security benefits under the Supplemental Security Income provisions of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 1301
et seq.,
those benefits are not covered
transactions and, therefore, are not affected if the person is excluded.
(c) Federal employment.
(d) A transaction that the African Development Foundation needs to respond to a national or agency-recognized emergency or disaster.
(e) A permit, license, certificate, or similar instrument issued as a means to regulate public health, safety, or the environment, unless the African Development Foundation specifically designates it to be a covered transaction.
(f) An incidental benefit that results from ordinary governmental operations.
(g) Any other transaction if the application of an exclusion to the transaction is prohibited by law.
§ 1508.220
Are any procurement contracts included as covered transactions?
(a) Covered transactions under this part—
(1) Do not include any procurement contracts awarded directly by a Federal agency; but
(2) Do include some procurement contracts awarded by non-Federal participants in nonprocurement covered transactions (see appendix to this part).
(b) Specifically, a contract for goods or services is a covered transaction if any of the following applies:
(1) The contract is awarded by a participant in a nonprocurement transaction that is covered under § 1508.210, and the amount of the contract is expected to equal or exceed $25,000.
(2) The contract requires the consent of a(n) ADF official. In that case, the contract, regardless of the amount, always is a covered transaction, and it does not matter who awarded it. For example, it could be a subcontract awarded by a contractor at a tier below a nonprocurement transaction, as shown in the appendix to this part.
(3) The contract is for federally-required audit services.
§ 1508.225
How do I know if a transaction in which I may participate is a covered transaction?
As a participant in a transaction, you will know that it is a covered transaction because the agency regulations governing the transaction, the appropriate agency official, or participant at the next higher tier who enters into the transaction with you, will tell you that you must comply with applicable portions of this part.

# Subpart C—Responsibilities of Participants Regarding Transactions

# Doing Business With Other Persons
§ 1508.300
What must I do before I enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier?
When you enter into a covered transaction with another person at the next lower tier, you must verify that the person with whom you intend to do business is not excluded or disqualified. You do this by:
(a) Checking the
EPLS;
or
(b) Collecting a certification from that person if allowed by this rule; or
(c) Adding a clause or condition to the covered transaction with that person.
§ 1508.305
May I enter into a covered transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
(a) You as a participant may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person, unless the African Development Foundation grants an exception under § 1508.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you have obtained an exception under the disqualifying statute, Executive order, or regulation.
§ 1508.310
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes a person with whom I am already doing business in a covered transaction?
(a) You as a participant may continue covered transactions with an excluded person if the transactions were in existence when the agency excluded the person. However, you are not required to continue the transactions, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, unless the African Development Foundation grants an exception under § 1508.120.
§ 1508.315
May I use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction?
(a) You as a participant may continue to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction if you were using the services of that person in the transaction before the person was excluded. However, you are not required to continue using that person's services as a principal. You should make a decision about whether to discontinue that person's services only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper and appropriate.
(b) You may not begin to use the services of an excluded person as a principal under a covered transaction unless the African Development Foundation grants an exception under § 1508.120.
§ 1508.320
Must I verify that principals of my covered transactions are eligible to participate?
Yes, you as a participant are responsible for determining whether any of your principals of your covered transactions is excluded or disqualified from participating in the transaction. You may decide the method and frequency by which you do so. You may, but you are not required to, check the
EPLS.
§ 1508.325
What happens if I do business with an excluded person in a covered transaction?
If as a participant you knowingly do business with an excluded person, we may disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, debar or suspend you, or take other remedies as appropriate.
§ 1508.330
What requirements must I pass down to persons at lower tiers with whom I intend to do business?
Before entering into a covered transaction with a participant at the next lower tier, you must require that participant to—
(a) Comply with this subpart as a condition of participation in the transaction. You may do so using any method(s), unless § 1508.440 requires you to use specific methods.
(b) Pass the requirement to comply with this subpart to each person with whom the participant enters into a covered transaction at the next lower tier.

# Disclosing Information—Primary Tier Participants
§ 1508.335
What information must I provide before entering into a covered transaction with the African Development Foundation?
Before you enter into a covered transaction at the primary tier, you as the participant must notify the ADF office that is entering into the transaction with you, if you know that you or any of the principals for that covered transaction:
(a) Are presently excluded or disqualified;
(b) Have been convicted within the preceding three years of any of the offenses listed in § 1508.800(a) or had a civil judgment rendered against you for one of those offenses within that time period;
(c) Are presently indicted for or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or local) with commission of any of the offenses listed in § 1508.800(a); or
(d) Have had one or more public transactions (Federal, State, or local) terminated within the preceding three years for cause or default.
§ 1508.340
If I disclose unfavorable information required under § 1508.335, will I be prevented from participating in the transaction?
As a primary tier participant, your disclosure of unfavorable information about yourself or a principal under § 1508.335 will not necessarily cause us to deny your participation in the covered transaction. We will consider the information when we determine whether to enter into the covered transaction. We also will consider any additional information or explanation that you elect to submit with the disclosed information.
§ 1508.345
What happens if I fail to disclose information required under § 1508.335?
If we later determine that you failed to disclose information under § 1508.335 that you knew at the time you entered into the covered transaction, we may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 1508.350
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 1508.335 after entering into a covered transaction with the African Development Foundation?
At any time after you enter into a covered transaction, you must give immediate written notice to the ADF office with which you entered into the transaction if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 1508.335; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 1508.335.

# Disclosing Information—Lower Tier Participants
§ 1508.355
What information must I provide to a higher tier participant before entering into a covered transaction with that participant?
Before you enter into a covered transaction with a person at the next higher tier, you as a lower tier participant must notify that person if you know that you or any of the principals are presently excluded or disqualified.
§ 1508.360
What happens if I fail to disclose the information required under § 1508.355?
If we later determine that you failed to tell the person at the higher tier that you were excluded or disqualified at the time you entered into the covered transaction with that person, we may pursue any available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 1508.365
What must I do if I learn of information required under § 1508.355 after entering into a covered transaction with a higher tier participant?
At any time after you enter into a lower tier covered transaction with a person at a higher tier, you must provide immediate written notice to that person if you learn either that—
(a) You failed to disclose information earlier, as required by § 1508.355; or
(b) Due to changed circumstances, you or any of the principals for the transaction now meet any of the criteria in § 1508.355.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of ADF Officials Regarding Transactions
§ 1508.400
May I enter into a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person?
(a) You as an agency official may not enter into a covered transaction with an excluded person unless you obtain an exception under § 1508.120.
(b) You may not enter into any transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.
§ 1508.405
May I enter into a covered transaction with a participant if a principal of the transaction is excluded?
As an agency official, you may not enter into a covered transaction with a participant if you know that a principal of the transaction is excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 1508.120.
§ 1508.410
May I approve a participant's use of the services of an excluded person?
After entering into a covered transaction with a participant, you as an agency official may not approve a participant's use of an excluded person as a principal under that transaction, unless you obtain an exception under § 1508.120.
§ 1508.415
What must I do if a Federal agency excludes the participant or a principal after I enter into a covered transaction?
(a) You as an agency official may continue covered transactions with an excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, if the transactions were in existence when the person was excluded. You are not required to continue the transactions, however, and you may consider termination. You should make a decision about whether to terminate and the type of termination action, if any, only after a thorough review to ensure that the action is proper.
(b) You may not renew or extend covered transactions (other than no-cost time extensions) with any excluded person, or under which an excluded person is a principal, unless you obtain an exception under § 1508.120.
§ 1508.420
May I approve a transaction with an excluded or disqualified person at a lower tier?
If a transaction at a lower tier is subject to your approval, you as an agency official may not approve—
(a) A covered transaction with a person who is currently excluded, unless you obtain an exception under § 1508.120; or
(b) A transaction with a person who is disqualified from that transaction, unless you obtain a waiver or exception under the statute, Executive order, or regulation that is the basis for the person's disqualification.
§ 1508.425
When do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
As an agency official, you must check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified before you—
(a) Enter into a primary tier covered transaction;
(b) Approve a principal in a primary tier covered transaction;
(c) Approve a lower tier participant if agency approval of the lower tier participant is required; or
(d) Approve a principal in connection with a lower tier transaction if agency approval of the principal is required.
§ 1508.430
How do I check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified?
You check to see if a person is excluded or disqualified in two ways:
(a) You as an agency official must check the
EPLS
when you take any action listed in § 1508.425.
(b) You must review information that a participant gives you, as required by § 1508.335, about its status or the status of the principals of a transaction.
§ 1508.435
What must I require of a primary tier participant?
You as an agency official must require each participant in a primary tier covered transaction to—
(a) Comply with subpart C of this part as a condition of participation in the transaction; and
(b) Communicate the requirement to comply with Subpart C of this part to persons at the next lower tier with whom the primary tier participant enters into covered transactions.
§ 1508.440
What method do I use to communicate those requirements to participants?
To communicate the requirements to participants, you must include a term or condition in the transaction requiring the participant's compliance with subpart C of this part, and requiring them to include a similar term or condition in lower tier covered transactions.
§ 1508.445
What action may I take if a primary tier participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person?
If a participant knowingly does business with an excluded or disqualified person, you as an agency official may refer the matter for suspension and debarment consideration. You may also disallow costs, annul or terminate the transaction, issue a stop work order, or take any other appropriate remedy.
§ 1508.450
What action may I take if a primary tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 1508.335?
If you as an agency official determine that a participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 1508.335, at the time it entered into a
covered transaction with you, you may—
(a) Terminate the transaction for material failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the transaction; or
(b) Pursue any other available remedies, including suspension and debarment.
§ 1508.455
What may I do if a lower tier participant fails to disclose the information required under § 1508.355 to the next higher tier?
If you as an agency official determine that a lower tier participant failed to disclose information, as required by § 1508.355, at the time it entered into a covered transaction with a participant at the next higher tier, you may pursue any remedies available to you, including the initiation of a suspension or debarment action.

# Subpart E—Excluded Parties List System
§ 1508.500
What is the purpose of the Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)?
The
EPLS
is a widely available source of the most current information about persons who are excluded or disqualified from covered transactions.
§ 1508.505
Who uses the EPLS?
(a) Federal agency officials use the
EPLS
to determine whether to enter into a transaction with a person, as required under § 1508.430.
(b) Participants also may, but are not required to, use the
EPLS
to determine if—
(1) Principals of their transactions are excluded or disqualified, as required under § 1508.320; or
(2) Persons with whom they are entering into covered transactions at the next lower tier are excluded or disqualified.
(c) The
EPLS
is available to the general public.
§ 1508.510
Who maintains the EPLS?
In accordance with the OMB guidelines, the General Services Administration (GSA) maintains the
EPLS.
When a Federal agency takes an action to exclude a person under the nonprocurement or procurement debarment and suspension system, the agency enters the information about the excluded person into the
EPLS.
§ 1508.515
What specific information is in the EPLS?
(a) At a minimum, the
EPLS
indicates—
(1) The full name (where available) and address of each excluded or disqualified person, in alphabetical order, with cross references if more than one name is involved in a single action;
(2) The type of action;
(3) The cause for the action;
(4) The scope of the action;
(5) Any termination date for the action;
(6) The agency and name and telephone number of the agency point of contact for the action; and
(7) The Dun and Bradstreet Number (DUNS), or other similar code approved by the GSA, of the excluded or disqualified person, if available.
(b)(1) The database for the
EPLS
includes a field for the Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (the social security number (SSN) for an individual) of an excluded or disqualified person.
(2) Agencies disclose the SSN of an individual to verify the identity of an individual, only if permitted under the Privacy Act of 1974 and, if appropriate, the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988, as codified in 5 U.S.C. 552(a).
§ 1508.520
Who places the information into the EPLS?
Federal officials who take actions to exclude persons under this part or officials who are responsible for identifying disqualified persons must enter the following information about those persons into the
EPLS
:
(a) Information required by § 1508.515(a);
(b) The Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) of the excluded or disqualified person, including the social security number (SSN) for an individual, if the number is available and may be disclosed under law;
(c) Information about an excluded or disqualified person, generally within five working days, after—
(1) Taking an exclusion action;
(2) Modifying or rescinding an exclusion action;
(3) Finding that a person is disqualified; or
(4) Finding that there has been a change in the status of a person who is listed as disqualified.
§ 1508.525
Whom do I ask if I have questions about a person in the EPLS?
If you have questions about a person in the
EPLS,
ask the point of contact for the Federal agency that placed the person's name into the
EPLS.
You may find the agency point of contact from the
EPLS.
§ 1508.530
Where can I find the EPLS?
(a) You may access the
EPLS
through the Internet, currently at
http://epls.arnet.gov.
(b) As of November 26, 2003, you may also subscribe to a printed version. However, we anticipate discontinuing the printed version. Until it is discontinued, you may obtain the printed version by purchasing a yearly subscription from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, or by calling the Government Printing Office Inquiry and Order Desk at (202) 783-3238.

# Subpart F—General Principles Relating to Suspension and Debarment Actions
§ 1508.600
How do suspension and debarment actions start?
When we receive information from any source concerning a cause for suspension or debarment, we will promptly report and investigate it. We refer the question of whether to suspend or debar you to our suspending or debarring official for consideration, if appropriate.
§ 1508.605
How does suspension differ from debarment?
Suspension differs from debarment in that—
A suspending official . . .
A debarring official . . .
(a) Imposes suspension as a temporary status of ineligibility for procurement and nonprocurement transactions, pending completion of an investigation or legal proceedings
Imposes debarment for a specified period as a final determination that a person is not presently responsible.
(b) Must—
(1) Have
adequate evidence
that there may be a cause for debarment of a person; and
(2) Conclude that
immediate action
is necessary to protect the Federal interest
Must conclude, based on a
preponderance of the evidence,
that the person has engaged in conduct that warrants debarment.
(c) Usually imposes the suspension
first,
and then promptly notifies the suspended person, giving the person an opportunity to contest the suspension and have it lifted
Imposes debarment
after
giving the respondent notice of the action and an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.
§ 1508.610
What procedures does the African Development Foundation use in suspension and debarment actions?
In deciding whether to suspend or debar you, we handle the actions as informally as practicable, consistent with principles of fundamental fairness.
(a) For suspension actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart G of this part.
(b) For debarment actions, we use the procedures in this subpart and subpart H of this part.
§ 1508.615
How does the African Development Foundation notify a person of a suspension or debarment action?
(a) The suspending or debarring official sends a written notice to the last known street address, facsimile number, or e-mail address of—
(1) You or your identified counsel; or
(2) Your agent for service of process, or any of your partners, officers, directors, owners, or joint venturers.
(b) The notice is effective if sent to any of these persons.
§ 1508.620
Do Federal agencies coordinate suspension and debarment actions?
Yes, when more than one Federal agency has an interest in a suspension or debarment, the agencies may consider designating one agency as the lead agency for making the decision. Agencies are encouraged to establish methods and procedures for coordinating their suspension and debarment actions.
§ 1508.625
What is the scope of a suspension or debarment?
If you are suspended or debarred, the suspension or debarment is effective as follows:
(a) Your suspension or debarment constitutes suspension or debarment of all of your divisions and other organizational elements from all covered transactions, unless the suspension or debarment decision is limited—
(1) By its terms to one or more specifically identified individuals, divisions, or other organizational elements; or
(2) To specific types of transactions.
(b) Any affiliate of a participant may be included in a suspension or debarment action if the suspending or debarring official—
(1) Officially names the affiliate in the notice; and
(2) Gives the affiliate an opportunity to contest the action.
§ 1508.630
May the African Development Foundation impute conduct of one person to another?
For purposes of actions taken under this rule, we may impute conduct as follows:
(a)
Conduct imputed from an individual to an organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, employee, or other individual associated with an organization, to that organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with the individual's performance of duties for or on behalf of that organization, or with the organization's knowledge, approval or acquiescence. The organization's acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
(b)
Conduct imputed from an organization to an individual, or between individuals.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of any organization to an individual, or from one individual to another individual, if the individual to whom the improper conduct is imputed either participated in, had knowledge of, or reason to know of the improper conduct.
(c)
Conduct imputed from one organization to another organization.
We may impute the fraudulent, criminal, or other improper conduct of one organization to another organization when the improper conduct occurred in connection with a partnership, joint venture, joint application, association or similar arrangement, or when the organization to whom the improper conduct is imputed has the power to direct, manage, control or influence the activities of the organization responsible for the improper conduct. Acceptance of the benefits derived from the conduct is evidence of knowledge, approval or acquiescence.
§ 1508.635
May the African Development Foundation settle a debarment or suspension action?
Yes, we may settle a debarment or suspension action at any time if it is in the best interest of the Federal Government.
§ 1508.640
May a settlement include a voluntary exclusion?
Yes, if we enter into a settlement with you in which you agree to be excluded, it is called a voluntary exclusion and has governmentwide effect.
§ 1508.645
Do other Federal agencies know if the African Development Foundation agrees to a voluntary exclusion?
(a) Yes, we enter information regarding a voluntary exclusion into the
EPLS.
(b) Also, any agency or person may contact us to find out the details of a voluntary exclusion.

# Subpart G—Suspension
§ 1508.700
When may the suspending official issue a suspension?
Suspension is a serious action. Using the procedures of this subpart and subpart F of this part, the suspending official may impose suspension only when that official determines that—
(a) There exists an indictment for, or other adequate evidence to suspect, an offense listed under § 1508.800(a), or
(b) There exists adequate evidence to suspect any other cause for debarment listed under § 1508.800(b) through (d); and
(c) Immediate action is necessary to protect the public interest.
§ 1508.705
What does the suspending official consider in issuing a suspension?
(a) In determining the adequacy of the evidence to support the suspension, the suspending official considers how much information is available, how credible it is given the circumstances, whether or not important allegations are corroborated, and what inferences can reasonably be drawn as a result. During this assessment, the suspending official may examine the basic documents, including grants, cooperative agreements, loan authorizations, contracts, and other relevant documents.
(b) An indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other official findings by Federal, State, or local bodies that determine factual and/or legal matters, constitutes adequate evidence for purposes of suspension actions.
(c) In deciding whether immediate action is needed to protect the public interest, the suspending official has wide discretion. For example, the suspending official may infer the necessity for immediate action to protect the public interest either from the nature of the circumstances giving rise to a cause for suspension or from potential business relationships or involvement with a program of the Federal Government.
§ 1508.710
When does a suspension take effect?
A suspension is effective when the suspending official signs the decision to suspend.
§ 1508.715
What notice does the suspending official give me if I am suspended?
After deciding to suspend you, the suspending official promptly sends you a Notice of Suspension advising you—
(a) That you have been suspended;
(b) That your suspension is based on—
(1) An indictment;
(2) A conviction;
(3) Other adequate evidence that you have committed irregularities which seriously reflect on the propriety of further Federal Government dealings with you; or
(4) Conduct of another person that has been imputed to you, or your affiliation with a suspended or debarred person;
(c) Of any other irregularities in terms sufficient to put you on notice without disclosing the Federal Government's evidence;
(d) Of the cause(s) upon which we relied under § 1508.700 for imposing suspension;
(e) That your suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or resulting legal or debarment proceedings;
(f) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, Subpart F of this part, and any other ADF procedures governing suspension decision making; and
(g) Of the governmentwide effect of your suspension from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.
§ 1508.720
How may I contest a suspension?
If you as a respondent wish to contest a suspension, you or your representative must provide the suspending official with information in opposition to the suspension. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.
§ 1508.725
How much time do I have to contest a suspension?
(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make rrangements to appear and present, the
information and argument to the suspending official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Suspension.
(b) We consider the notice to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.
§ 1508.730
What information must I provide to the suspending official if I contest a suspension?
(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the suspending official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Suspension. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, state, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Suspension that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the African Development Foundation may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.
§ 1508.735
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which the suspension is based?
(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) Your suspension is based upon an indictment, conviction, civil judgment, or other finding by a Federal, State, or local body for which an opportunity to contest the facts was provided;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Suspension;
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the suspension are not factual in nature, or are not material to the suspending official's initial decision to suspend, or the official's decision whether to continue the suspension; or
(4) On the basis of advice from the Department of Justice, an office of the United States Attorney, a State attorney general's office, or a State or local prosecutor's office, that substantial interests of the government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced by conducting fact-finding.
(b) You will have an opportunity to challenge the facts if the suspending official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the suspending official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.
§ 1508.740
Are suspension proceedings formal?
(a) Suspension proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The suspending official may use flexible procedures to allow you to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the suspending official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base a final suspension decision.
(b) You as a respondent or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the suspending official to consider.
§ 1508.745
How is fact-finding conducted?
(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the African Development Foundation agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.
§ 1508.750
What does the suspending official consider in deciding whether to continue or terminate my suspension?
(a) The suspending official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the suspending official's initial decision to suspend you;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or opposition to, the suspension; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(b) The suspending official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending official may reject any resulting findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.
§ 1508.755
When will I know whether the suspension is continued or terminated?
The suspending official must make a written decision whether to continue, modify, or terminate your suspension within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the suspending official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The suspending official may extend that period for good cause.
§ 1508.760
How long may my suspension last?
(a) If legal or debarment proceedings are initiated at the time of, or during your suspension, the suspension may continue until the conclusion of those proceedings. However, if proceedings are not initiated, a suspension may not exceed 12 months.
(b) The suspending official may extend the 12 month limit under paragraph (a) of this section for an additional 6 months if an office of a U.S. Assistant Attorney General, U.S. Attorney, or other responsible prosecuting official requests an extension in writing. In no event may a suspension exceed 18 months without initiating proceedings under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The suspending official must notify the appropriate officials under paragraph (b) of this section of an impending termination of a suspension at least 30 days before the 12 month period expires to allow the officials an opportunity to request an extension.

# Subpart H—Debarment
§ 1508.800
What are the causes for debarment?
We may debar a person for—
(a) Conviction of or civil judgment for—
(1) Commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public or private agreement or transaction;
(2) Violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes, including those proscribing price fixing between competitors, allocation of customers between competitors, and bid rigging;
(3) Commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, receiving stolen property, making false claims, or obstruction of justice; or
(4) Commission of any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity or business honesty that seriously and directly affects your present responsibility;
(b) Violation of the terms of a public agreement or transaction so serious as to affect the integrity of an agency program, such as—
(1) A willful failure to perform in accordance with the terms of one or more public agreements or transactions;
(2) A history of failure to perform or of unsatisfactory performance of one or more public agreements or transactions; or
(3) A willful violation of a statutory or regulatory provision or requirement applicable to a public agreement or transaction;
(c) Any of the following causes:
(1) A nonprocurement debarment by any Federal agency taken before October 1, 1988, or a procurement debarment by any Federal agency taken pursuant to 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, before August 25, 1995;
(2) Knowingly doing business with an ineligible person, except as permitted under § 1508.120;
(3) Failure to pay a single substantial debt, or a number of outstanding debts (including disallowed costs and overpayments, but not including sums owed the Federal Government under the Internal Revenue Code) owed to any Federal agency or instrumentality, provided the debt is uncontested by the debtor or, if contested, provided that the debtor's legal and administrative remedies have been exhausted;
(4) Violation of a material provision of a voluntary exclusion agreement entered into under § 1508.640 or of any settlement of a debarment or suspension action; or
(5) Violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701); or
(d) Any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects your present responsibility.
§ 1508.805
What notice does the debarring official give me if I am proposed for debarment?
After consideration of the causes in § 1508.800 of this subpart, if the debarring official proposes to debar you, the official sends you a Notice of Proposed Debarment, pursuant to § 1508.615, advising you—
(a) That the debarring official is considering debarring you;
(b) Of the reasons for proposing to debar you in terms sufficient to put you on notice of the conduct or transactions upon which the proposed debarment is based;
(c) Of the cause(s) under § 1508.800 upon which the debarring official relied for proposing your debarment;
(d) Of the applicable provisions of this subpart, Subpart F of this part, and any other ADF procedures governing debarment; and
(e) Of the governmentwide effect of a debarment from procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities.
§ 1508.810
When does a debarment take effect?
A debarment is not effective until the debarring official issues a decision. The debarring official does not issue a decision until the respondent has had an opportunity to contest the proposed debarment.
§ 1508.815
How may I contest a proposed debarment?
If you as a respondent wish to contest a proposed debarment, you or your representative must provide the debarring official with information in opposition to the proposed debarment. You may do this orally or in writing, but any information provided orally that you consider important must also be submitted in writing for the official record.
§ 1508.820
How much time do I have to contest a proposed debarment?
(a) As a respondent you or your representative must either send, or make arrangements to appear and present, the information and argument to the debarring official within 30 days after you receive the Notice of Proposed Debarment.
(b) We consider the Notice of Proposed Debarment to be received by you—
(1) When delivered, if we mail the notice to the last known street address, or five days after we send it if the letter is undeliverable;
(2) When sent, if we send the notice by facsimile or five days after we send it if the facsimile is undeliverable; or
(3) When delivered, if we send the notice by e-mail or five days after we send it if the e-mail is undeliverable.
§ 1508.825
What information must I provide to the debarring official if I contest a proposed debarment?
(a) In addition to any information and argument in opposition, as a respondent your submission to the debarring official must identify—
(1) Specific facts that contradict the statements contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment. Include any information about any of the factors listed in § 1508.860. A general denial is insufficient to raise a genuine dispute over facts material to the debarment;
(2) All existing, proposed, or prior exclusions under regulations implementing E.O. 12549 and all similar actions taken by Federal, State, or local agencies, including administrative agreements that affect only those agencies;
(3) All criminal and civil proceedings not included in the Notice of Proposed Debarment that grew out of facts relevant to the cause(s) stated in the notice; and
(4) All of your affiliates.
(b) If you fail to disclose this information, or provide false information, the African Development Foundation may seek further criminal, civil or administrative action against you, as appropriate.
§ 1508.830
Under what conditions do I get an additional opportunity to challenge the facts on which a proposed debarment is based?
(a) You as a respondent will not have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) Your debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment;
(2) Your presentation in opposition contains only general denials to information contained in the Notice of Proposed Debarment; or
(3) The issues raised in your presentation in opposition to the proposed debarment are not factual in nature, or are not material to the debarring official's decision whether to debar.
(b) You will have an additional opportunity to challenge the facts if the debarring official determines that—
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section do not exist; and
(2) Your presentation in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment.
(c) If you have an opportunity to challenge disputed material facts under this section, the debarring official or designee must conduct additional proceedings to resolve those facts.
§ 1508.835
Are debarment proceedings formal?
(a) Debarment proceedings are conducted in a fair and informal manner. The debarring official may use flexible procedures to allow you as a respondent to present matters in opposition. In so doing, the debarring official is not required to follow formal rules of evidence or procedure in creating an official record upon which the official will base the decision whether to debar.
(b) You or your representative must submit any documentary evidence you want the debarring official to consider.
§ 1508.840
How is fact-finding conducted?
(a) If fact-finding is conducted—
(1) You may present witnesses and other evidence, and confront any witness presented; and
(2) The fact-finder must prepare written findings of fact for the record.
(b) A transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings must be made, unless you as a respondent and the African Development Foundation agree to waive it in advance. If you want a copy of the transcribed record, you may purchase it.
§ 1508.845
What does the debarring official consider in deciding whether to debar me?
(a) The debarring official may debar you for any of the causes in § 1508.800. However, the official need not debar you even if a cause for debarment exists. The official may consider the seriousness of your acts or omissions and the mitigating or aggravating factors set forth at § 1508.860.
(b) The debarring official bases the decision on all information contained in the official record. The record includes—
(1) All information in support of the debarring official's proposed debarment;
(2) Any further information and argument presented in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed debarment; and
(3) Any transcribed record of fact-finding proceedings.
(c) The debarring official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The debarring official may reject any resultant findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary, capricious, or clearly erroneous.
§ 1508.850
What is the standard of proof in a debarment action?
(a) In any debarment action, we must establish the cause for debarment by a preponderance of the evidence.
(b) If the proposed debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the standard of proof is met.
§ 1508.855
Who has the burden of proof in a debarment action?
(a) We have the burden to prove that a cause for debarment exists.
(b) Once a cause for debarment is established, you as a respondent have the burden of demonstrating to the satisfaction of the debarring official that you are presently responsible and that debarment is not necessary.
§ 1508.860
What factors may influence the debarring official's decision?
This section lists the mitigating and aggravating factors that the debarring official may consider in determining whether to debar you and the length of your debarment period. The debarring official may consider other factors if appropriate in light of the circumstances of a particular case. The existence or nonexistence of any factor, such as one of those set forth in this section, is not necessarily determinative of your present responsibility. In making a debarment decision, the debarring official may consider the following factors:
(a) The actual or potential harm or impact that results or may result from the wrongdoing.
(b) The frequency of incidents and/or duration of the wrongdoing.
(c) Whether there is a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing. For example, if you have been found by another Federal agency or a State agency to have engaged in wrongdoing similar to that found in the debarment action, the existence of this fact may be used by the debarring official in determining that you have a pattern or prior history of wrongdoing.
(d) Whether you are or have been excluded or disqualified by an agency of the Federal Government or have not been allowed to participate in State or local contracts or assistance agreements on a basis of conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(e) Whether you have entered into an administrative agreement with a Federal agency or a State or local government that is not governmentwide but is based on conduct similar to one or more of the causes for debarment specified in this part.
(f) Whether and to what extent you planned, initiated, or carried out the wrongdoing.
(g) Whether you have accepted responsibility for the wrongdoing and recognize the seriousness of the misconduct that led to the cause for debarment.
(h) Whether you have paid or agreed to pay all criminal, civil and administrative liabilities for the improper activity, including any investigative or administrative costs incurred by the government, and have made or agreed to make full restitution.
(i) Whether you have cooperated fully with the government agencies during the investigation and any court or administrative action. In determining the extent of cooperation, the debarring official may consider when the cooperation began and whether you disclosed all pertinent information known to you.
(j) Whether the wrongdoing was pervasive within your organization.
(k) The kind of positions held by the individuals involved in the wrongdoing.
(l) Whether your organization took appropriate corrective action or remedial measures, such as establishing ethics training and implementing programs to prevent recurrence.
(m) Whether your principals tolerated the offense.
(n) Whether you brought the activity cited as a basis for the debarment to the attention of the appropriate government agency in a timely manner.
(o) Whether you have fully investigated the circumstances surrounding the cause for debarment and, if so, made the result of the investigation available to the debarring official.
(p) Whether you had effective standards of conduct and internal control systems in place at the time the questioned conduct occurred.
(q) Whether you have taken appropriate disciplinary action against the
individuals responsible for the activity which constitutes the cause for debarment.
(r) Whether you have had adequate time to eliminate the circumstances within your organization that led to the cause for the debarment.
(s) Other factors that are appropriate to the circumstances of a particular case.
§ 1508.865
How long may my debarment last?
(a) If the debarring official decides to debar you, your period of debarment will be based on the seriousness of the cause(s) upon which your debarment is based. Generally, debarment should not exceed three years. However, if circumstances warrant, the debarring official may impose a longer period of debarment.
(b) In determining the period of debarment, the debarring official may consider the factors in § 1508.860. If a suspension has preceded your debarment, the debarring official must consider the time you were suspended.
(c) If the debarment is for a violation of the provisions of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, your period of debarment may not exceed five years.
§ 1508.870
When do I know if the debarring official debars me?
(a) The debarring official must make a written decision whether to debar within 45 days of closing the official record. The official record closes upon the debarring official's receipt of final submissions, information and findings of fact, if any. The debarring official may extend that period for good cause.
(b) The debarring official sends you written notice, pursuant to § 1508.615 that the official decided, either—
(1) Not to debar you; or
(2) To debar you. In this event, the notice:
(i) Refers to the Notice of Proposed Debarment;
(ii) Specifies the reasons for your debarment;
(iii) States the period of your debarment, including the effective dates; and
(iv) Advises you that your debarment is effective for covered transactions and contracts that are subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1), throughout the executive branch of the Federal Government unless an agency head or an authorized designee grants an exception.
§ 1508.875
May I ask the debarring official to reconsider a decision to debar me?
Yes, as a debarred person you may ask the debarring official to reconsider the debarment decision or to reduce the time period or scope of the debarment. However, you must put your request in writing and support it with documentation.
§ 1508.880
What factors may influence the debarring official during reconsideration?
The debarring official may reduce or terminate your debarment based on—
(a) Newly discovered material evidence;
(b) A reversal of the conviction or civil judgment upon which your debarment was based;
(c) A bona fide change in ownership or management;
(d) Elimination of other causes for which the debarment was imposed; or
(e) Other reasons the debarring official finds appropriate.
§ 1508.885
May the debarring official extend a debarment?
(a) Yes, the debarring official may extend a debarment for an additional period, if that official determines that an extension is necessary to protect the public interest.
(b) However, the debarring official may not extend a debarment solely on the basis of the facts and circumstances upon which the initial debarment action was based.
(c) If the debarring official decides that a debarment for an additional period is necessary, the debarring official must follow the applicable procedures in this subpart, and subpart F of this part, to extend the debarment.

# Subpart I—Definitions
§ 1508.900
Adequate evidence.
Adequate evidence
means information sufficient to support the reasonable belief that a particular act or omission has occurred.
§ 1508.905
Affiliate.
Persons are
affiliates
of each other if, directly or indirectly, either one controls or has the power to control the other or a third person controls or has the power to control both. The ways we use to determine control include, but are not limited to—
(a) Interlocking management or ownership;
(b) Identity of interests among family members;
(c) Shared facilities and equipment;
(d) Common use of employees; or
(e) A business entity which has been organized following the exclusion of a person which has the same or similar management, ownership, or principal employees as the excluded person.
§ 1508.910
Agency.
Agency
means any United States executive department, military department, defense agency, or any other agency of the executive branch. Other agencies of the Federal government are not considered “agencies” for the purposes of this part unless they issue regulations adopting the governmentwide Debarment and Suspension system under Executive orders 12549 and 12689.
§ 1508.915
Agent or representative.
Agent or representative
means any person who acts on behalf of, or who is authorized to commit, a participant in a covered transaction.
§ 1508.920
Civil judgment.
Civil judgment
means the disposition of a civil action by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether by verdict, decision, settlement, stipulation, other disposition which creates a civil liability for the complained of wrongful acts, or a final determination of liability under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1988 (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812).
§ 1508.925
Conviction.
Conviction
means—
(a) A judgment or any other determination of guilt of a criminal offense by any court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea, including a plea of nolo contendere; or
(b) Any other resolution that is the functional equivalent of a judgment, including probation before judgment and deferred prosecution. A disposition without the participation of the court is the functional equivalent of a judgment only if it includes an admission of guilt.
§ 1508.930
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a debarring official under subpart H of this part to exclude a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1). A person so excluded is debarred.
§ 1508.935
Debarring official.
(a)
Debarring official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose debarment. A debarring official is either—
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1508.940
Disqualified.
Disqualified
means that a person is prohibited from participating in specified Federal procurement or nonprocurement transactions as required under a statute, Executive order (other than Executive Orders 12549 and 12689) or other authority. Examples of disqualifications include persons prohibited under—
(a) The Davis-Bacon Act (40 U.S.C. 276(a));
(b) The equal employment opportunity acts and Executive orders; or
(c) The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7606), Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1368) and Executive Order 11738 (3 CFR, 1973 Comp., p. 799).
§ 1508.945
Excluded or exclusion.
Excluded or exclusion
means—
(a) That a person or commodity is prohibited from being a participant in
covered transactions, whether the person has been suspended; debarred; proposed for debarment under 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4; voluntarily excluded; or
(b) The act of excluding a person.
§ 1508.950
Excluded Parties List System
Excluded Parties List System (EPLS)
means the list maintained and disseminated by the General Services Administration (GSA) containing the names and other information about persons who are ineligible. The
EPLS
system includes the printed version entitled, “List of Parties Excluded or Disqualified from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs,” so long as published.
§ 1508.955
Indictment.
Indictment
means an indictment for a criminal offense. A presentment, information, or other filing by a competent authority charging a criminal offense shall be given the same effect as an indictment.
§ 1508.960
Ineligible or ineligibility.
Ineligible or ineligibility
means that a person or commodity is prohibited from covered transactions because of an exclusion or disqualification.
§ 1508.965
Legal proceedings.
Legal proceedings
means any criminal proceeding or any civil judicial proceeding, including a proceeding under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812), to which the Federal Government or a State or local government or quasi-governmental authority is a party. The term also includes appeals from those proceedings.
§ 1508.970
Nonprocurement transaction.
(a)
Nonprocurement transaction
means any transaction, regardless of type (except procurement contracts), including, but not limited to the following:
(1) Grants.
(2) Cooperative agreements.
(3) Scholarships.
(4) Fellowships.
(5) Contracts of assistance.
(6) Loans.
(7) Loan guarantees.
(8) Subsidies.
(9) Insurances.
(10) Payments for specified uses.
(11) Donation agreements.
(b) A nonprocurement transaction at any tier does not require the transfer of Federal funds.
§ 1508.975
Notice.
Notice
means a written communication served in person, sent by certified mail or its equivalent, or sent electronically by e-mail or facsimile. (See § 1508.615.)
§ 1508.980
Participant.
Participant
means any person who submits a proposal for or who enters into a covered transaction, including an agent or representative of a participant.
§ 1508.985
Person.
Person
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government, or legal entity, however organized.
§ 1508.990
Preponderance of the evidence.
Preponderance of the evidence
means proof by information that, compared with information opposing it, leads to the conclusion that the fact at issue is more probably true than not.
§ 1508.995
Principal.
Principal
means—
(a) An officer, director, owner, partner, principal investigator, or other person within a participant with management or supervisory responsibilities related to a covered transaction; or
(b) A consultant or other person, whether or not employed by the participant or paid with Federal funds, who—
(1) Is in a position to handle Federal funds;
(2) Is in a position to influence or control the use of those funds; or,
(3) Occupies a technical or professional position capable of substantially influencing the development or outcome of an activity required to perform the covered transaction.
§ 1508.1000
Respondent.
Respondent
means a person against whom an agency has initiated a debarment or suspension action.
§ 1508.1005
State.
(a)
State
means—
(1) Any of the states of the United States;
(2) The District of Columbia;
(3) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(4) Any territory or possession of the United States; or
(5) Any agency or instrumentality of a state.
(b) For purposes of this part,
State
does not include institutions of higher education, hospitals, or units of local government.
§ 1508.1010
Suspending official.
(a)
Suspending official
means an agency official who is authorized to impose suspension. The suspending official is either:
(1) The agency head; or
(2) An official designated by the agency head.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1508.1015
Suspension.
Suspension
is an action taken by a suspending official under subpart G of this part that immediately prohibits a person from participating in covered transactions and transactions covered under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1) for a temporary period, pending completion of an agency investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A person so excluded is suspended.
§ 1508.1020
Voluntary exclusion or voluntarily excluded.
(a)
Voluntary exclusion
means a person's agreement to be excluded under the terms of a settlement between the person and one or more agencies. Voluntary exclusion must have governmentwide effect.
(b)
Voluntarily excluded
means the status of a person who has agreed to a voluntary exclusion.
Subpart J [Reserved]
Pt. 1508, App.

# Appendix to Part 1508—Covered Transactions
ER26NO03.000
Pt. 1509

# PART 1509—GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
Sec.
1509.100
What does this part do?
1509.105
Does this part apply to me?
1509.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
1509.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
1509.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
1509.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
1509.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
1509.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
1509.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
1509.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
1509.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
1509.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
1509.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of ADF Awarding Officials
1509.400
What are my responsibilities as an ADF awarding official?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
1509.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
1509.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
1509.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
1509.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?

# Subpart F—Definitions
1509.605
Award.
1509.610
Controlled substance.
1509.615
Conviction.
1509.620
Cooperative agreement.
1509.625
Criminal drug statute.
1509.630
Debarment.
1509.635
Drug-free workplace.
1509.640
Employee.
1509.645
Federal agency or agency.
1509.650
Grant.
1509.655
Individual.
1509.660
Recipient.
1509.665
State.
1509.670
Suspension.

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.

# Source:
68 FR 66592, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 1509.100
What does this part do?
This part carries out the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.,
as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.
§ 1509.105
Does this part apply to me?
(a) Portions of this part apply to you if you are either—
(1) A recipient of an assistance award from the African Development Foundation; or
(2) A(n) ADF awarding official. (See definitions of award and recipient in §§ 1509.605 and 1509.660, respectively.)
(b) The following table shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are . . .
see subparts . . .
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, B and E.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, C and E.
(3) A(n) ADF awarding official
A, D and E.
§ 1509.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award that the ADF President determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the laws or regulations of a foreign government.
§ 1509.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?
It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 1509.510(c). However, this part does not apply directly to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations (the drug-free workplace coverage currently is in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5).

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 1509.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part. The specific measures that you must
take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees (see §§ 1509.205 through 1509.220); and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace (see § 1509.225).
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards (see § 1509.230).
§ 1509.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more than five calendar days after the conviction.
§ 1509.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 1509.205 be given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.
§ 1509.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
§ 1509.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 1509.205 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 1509.215, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the ADF awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.
§ 1509.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 1509.205(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either—
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
§ 1509.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?
(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each ADF award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces—
(1) To the ADF official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by ADF officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (
e.g.
, all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the ADF awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the ADF awarding official.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 1509.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
As a condition of receiving a(n) ADF award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the ADF awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 1509.301 or the award document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point, it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.
§ 1509.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of ADF Awarding Officials
§ 1509.400
What are my responsibilities as a(n) ADF awarding official?
As a(n) ADF awarding official, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in—
(a) Subpart B of this part, if the recipient is not an individual; or
(b) Subpart C of this part, if the recipient is an individual.

# Subpart E—Violations of this Part and Consequences
§ 1509.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of
this part if the ADF President determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 1509.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the ADF President determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 1509.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 1509.500 or § 1509.505, the African Development Foundation may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 22 CFR part 1508, for a period not to exceed five years.
§ 1509.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The ADF President may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the ADF President determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 1509.605
Award.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the African Development Foundation or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the grant is exempted from coverage under the Governmentwide rule [Agency-specific CFR citation] that implements OMB Circular A-102 (for availability, see 5 CFR 1310.3) and specifies uniform administrative requirements.
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (
i.e.
, any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, this paragraph is not applicable for ADF.
§ 1509.610
Controlled substance.
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
§ 1509.615
Conviction.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
§ 1509.620
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in
§ 1509.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 1509.625
Criminal drug statute.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
§ 1509.630
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.
§ 1509.635
Drug-free workplace.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
§ 1509.640
Employee.
(a)
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (
e.g.
, volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).
§ 1509.645
Federal agency or agency.
Federal agency or agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
§ 1509.650
Grant.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 1509.655
Individual.
Individual
means a natural person.
§ 1509.660
Recipient.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
§ 1509.665
State.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 1509.670
Suspension.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately
prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.
Pt. 1510

# PART 1510—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
Sec.
1510.101
Purpose.
1510.102
Application.
1510.103
Definitions.
1510.104-1510.109
[Reserved]
1510.110
Self-evaluation.
1510.111
Notice.
1510.112-1510.129
[Reserved]
1510.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
1510.131-1510.139
[Reserved]
1510.140
Employment.
1510.141-1510.148
[Reserved]
1510.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
1510.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
1510.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
1510.152-1510.159
[Reserved]
1510.160
Communications.
1510.161-1510.169
[Reserved]
1510.170
Compliance procedures.
1510.171-1510.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
53 FR 25883, 25885, July 8, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1510.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this regulation is to effectuate section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 1510.102
Application.
This regulation (§§ 1510.101-1510.170) applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with handicaps in the United States.
§ 1510.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this regulation, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Individual with handicaps
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Qualified individual with handicaps
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, an individual with handicaps who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency;
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
as that term is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this regulation by § 1510.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617); the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955); and the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-506, 100 Stat. 1810). As used in this regulation, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished
materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 1510.104-1510.109
[Reserved]
§ 1510.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by September 6, 1989, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this regulation and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, for at least three years following completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified; and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 1510.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this regulation and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 1510.112-1510.129
[Reserved]
§ 1510.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with handicaps an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with handicaps with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with handicaps or to any class of individuals with handicaps than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with handicaps with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards;
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with handicaps in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with handicaps from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this regulation.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with handicaps or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with handicaps from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with handicaps is not prohibited by this regulation.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with handicaps.
§§ 1510.131-1510.139
[Reserved]
§ 1510.140
Employment.
No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be subject to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 1510.141-1510.148
[Reserved]
§ 1510.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1510.150, no qualified individual with handicaps shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 1510.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1510.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for
reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 1510.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with handicaps. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 1510.150(a) (2) or (3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide individuals with handicaps into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by November 7, 1988, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by September 6, 1991, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by March 6, 1989, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 1510.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607,
apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 1510.152-1510.159
[Reserved]
§ 1510.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1510.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 1510.161-1510.169
[Reserved]
§ 1510.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Personnel Officer, Office of Administration and Finance, shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to Personnel Officer, Office of Administration and Finance, African Development Foundation, 1625 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., Suite 600, Washington, DC, 20036.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 1510.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[53 FR 25883, 25885, July 8, 1988, as amended at 53 FR 25883, July 8, 1988]
§§ 1510.171-1510.999
[Reserved]
PARTS 1511-1599 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. XVI (4-1-25 Edition)
Japan-United States Friendship Commission

# CHAPTER XVI—JAPAN-UNITED STATES FRIENDSHIP COMMISSION
Part
Page
1600
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the Japan-United States Friendship Commission
511
1601-1699
[Reserved]
Pt. 1600

# PART 1600—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE JAPAN-UNITED STATES FRIENDSHIP COMMISSION
Sec.
1600.101
Purpose.
1600.102
Application.
1600.103
Definitions.
1600.104-1600.109
[Reserved]
1600.110
Self-evaluation.
1600.111
Notice.
1600.112-1600.129
[Reserved]
1600.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
1600.131-1600.139
[Reserved]
1600.140
Employment.
1600.141-1600.148
[Reserved]
1600.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
1600.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
1600.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
1600.152-1600.159
[Reserved]
1600.160
Communications.
1600.161-1600.169
[Reserved]
1600.170
Compliance procedures.
1600.171-1600.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
51 FR 22891, 22896, June 23, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1600.101
Purpose.
This part effectuates section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies or the United States Postal Service.
§ 1600.102
Application.
This part applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency.
§ 1600.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, brailled materials, audio recordings, telecommunications devices and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Handicapped person
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment.
As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term
physical or mental impairment
includes, but is not limited
to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, and drug addiction and alocoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
includes functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Qualified handicapped person
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, a handicapped person who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency.
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can acheive the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, a handicapped person who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1613.702(f), which is made applicable to this part by § 1600.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-516, 88 Stat. 1617), and the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services, and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-602, 92 Stat. 2955). As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 1600.104-1600.109
[Reserved]
§ 1600.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by August 24, 1987, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part, and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, until three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified, and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 1600.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this regulation.
§§ 1600.112-1600.129
[Reserved]
§ 1600.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified handicapped person an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified handicapped person with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in affording equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to handicapped persons or to any class of handicapped persons than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified handicapped persons with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards; or
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified handicapped person in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified handicapped person the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are not separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangments, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude handicapped persons from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to handicapped persons.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use criteria that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified handicapped persons to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency
are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to handicapped persons or the exclusion of a specific class of handicapped persons from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of handicapped persons is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified handicapped persons.
§§ 1600.131-1600.139
[Reserved]
§ 1600.140
Employment.
No qualified handicapped person shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 1600.141-1600.148
[Reserved]
§ 1600.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1600.150, no qualified handicapped person shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by handicapped persons, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 1600.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1600.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements
to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified handicapped persons in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 1600.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to handicapped persons. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 1600.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide handicapped persons into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by October 21, 1986, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by August 22, 1989, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by February 23, 1987, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to handicapped persons;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 1600.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 1600.152-1600.159
[Reserved]
§ 1600.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford a handicapped person an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall give primary consideration to the requests of the handicapped person.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf person (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons
with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and adminstrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1600.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, handicapped persons receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 1600.161-1600.169
[Reserved]
§ 1600.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1613 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Executive Director, Japan-U.S. Friendship Commission, shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to Executive Director, Japan-U.S. Friendship Commission, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20004.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), or section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 792), is not readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 1600.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt
of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[51 FR 22891, 22896, June 23, 1986, as amended at 51 FR 22891, June 23, 1986]
§§ 1600.171-1600.999
[Reserved]
PARTS 1601-1699 [RESERVED]
22 CFR Ch. XVII (4-1-25 Edition)
United States Institute of Peace

# CHAPTER XVII—UNITED STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE
Part
Page
1700
[Reserved]
1701
Enforcement of nondiscrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by the United States Institute of Peace
521
1702-1799
[Reserved]
PART 1700 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1701

# PART 1701—ENFORCEMENT OF NONDISCRIMINATION ON THE BASIS OF HANDICAP IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED BY THE UNITED STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE
Sec.
1701.101
Purpose.
1701.102
Application.
1701.103
Definitions.
1701.104-1701.109
[Reserved]
1701.110
Self-evaluation.
1701.111
Notice.
1701.112-1701.129
[Reserved]
1701.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
1701.131-1701.139
[Reserved]
1701.140
Employment.
1701.141-1701.148
[Reserved]
1701.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
1701.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
1701.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
1701.152-1701.159
[Reserved]
1701.160
Communications.
1701.161-1702.169
[Reserved]
1701.170
Compliance procedures.
1701.171-1701.999
[Reserved]

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 794.

# Source:
58 FR 57697, 57699, Oct. 26, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1701.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the spirit of section 119 of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978, which amended section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 to prohibit discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs or activities conducted by various Executive agencies. Although the USIP does not believe that Congress contemplated coverage of independent Federal institutions, such as the USIP, it has chosen to promulgate this part.
[58 FR 57697, Oct. 26, 1993]
§ 1701.102
Application.
This part (§§ 1701.101-1701.170) applies to all programs or activities conducted by the agency, except for programs or activities conducted outside the United States that do not involve individuals with handicaps in the United States.
§ 1701.103
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the term—
Assistant Attorney General
means the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice.
Auxiliary aids
means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skills to have an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, programs or activities conducted by the agency. For example, auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired vision include readers, Brailled materials, audio recordings, and other similar services and devices. Auxiliary aids useful for persons with impaired hearing include telephone handset amplifiers, telephones compatible with hearing aids, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TTD's), interpreters, notetakers, written materials, and other similar services and devices.
Complete complaint
means a written statement that contains the complainant's name and address and describes the agency's alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the agency of the nature and date of the alleged violation of section 504. It shall be signed by the complainant or by someone authorized to do so on his or her behalf. Complaints filed on behalf of classes or third parties shall describe or identify (by name, if possible) the alleged victims of discrimination.
Facility
means all or any portion of buildings, structures, equipment, roads, walks, parking lots, rolling stock or other conveyances, or other real or personal property.
Historic preservation programs
means programs conducted by the agency that have preservation of historic properties as a primary purpose.
Historic properties
means those properties that are listed or eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places or properties designated as historic under a statute of the appropriate State or local government body.
Individual with handicaps
means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a
record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. As used in this definition, the phrase:
(1)
Physical or mental impairment
includes—
(i) Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: Neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
(ii) Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities. The term “physical or mental impairment” includes, but is not limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech, and hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, mental retardation, emotional illness, HIV disease (whether symptomatic or asymptomatic), and drug addiction and alcoholism.
(2)
Major life activities
include functions such as caring for one's self, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(3)
Has a record of such an impairment
means has a history of, or has been misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities.
(4)
Is regarded as having an impairment
means—
(i) Has a physical or mental impairment that does not substantially limit major life activities but is treated by the agency as constituting such a limitation;
(ii) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward such impairment; or
(iii) Has none of the impairments defined in paragraph (1) of this definition but is treated by the agency as having such an impairment.
Qualified individual with handicaps
means—
(1) With respect to preschool, elementary, or secondary education services provided by the agency, an individual with handicaps who is a member of a class of persons otherwise entitled by statute, regulation, or agency policy to receive education services from the agency;
(2) With respect to any other agency program or activity under which a person is required to perform services or to achieve a level of accomplishment, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements and who can achieve the purpose of the program or activity without modifications in the program or activity that the agency can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in its nature;
(3) With respect to any other program or activity, an individual with handicaps who meets the essential eligibility requirements for participation in, or receipt of benefits from, that program or activity; and
(4)
Qualified handicapped person
as that term is defined for purposes of employment in 29 CFR 1614.203(a)(6), which is made applicable to this part by § 1701.140.
Section 504
means section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, 87 Stat. 394 (29 U.S.C. 794)), as amended. As used in this part, section 504 applies only to programs or activities conducted by Executive agencies and not to federally assisted programs.
Substantial impairment
means a significant loss of the integrity of finished materials, design quality, or special character resulting from a permanent alteration.
§§ 1701.104-1701.109
[Reserved]
§ 1701.110
Self-evaluation.
(a) The agency shall, by November 28, 1994, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects thereof, that do not or may not meet the requirements of this part and, to the extent modification of any such policies and practices is required, the agency shall proceed to make the necessary modifications.
(b) The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments (both oral and written).
(c) The agency shall, for at least three years following completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection:
(1) A description of areas examined and any problems identified; and
(2) A description of any modifications made.
§ 1701.111
Notice.
The agency shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons such information regarding the provisions of this part and its applicability to the programs or activities conducted by the agency, and make such information available to them in such manner as the head of the agency finds necessary to apprise such persons of the protections against discrimination assured them by section 504 and this part.
§§ 1701.112-1701.129
[Reserved]
§ 1701.130
General prohibitions against discrimination.
(a) No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
(b)(1) The agency, in providing any aid, benefit, or service, may not, directly or through contractual, licensing, or other arrangements, on the basis of handicap—
(i) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service;
(ii) Afford a qualified individual with handicaps an opportunity to participate in or benefit from the aid, benefit, or service that is not equal to that afforded others;
(iii) Provide a qualified individual with handicaps with an aid, benefit, or service that is not as effective in according equal opportunity to obtain the same result, to gain the same benefit, or to reach the same level of achievement as that provided to others;
(iv) Provide different or separate aid, benefits, or services to individuals with handicaps or to any class of individuals with handicaps than is provided to others unless such action is necessary to provide qualified individuals with handicaps with aid, benefits, or services that are as effective as those provided to others;
(v) Deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate as a member of planning or advisory boards;
(vi) Otherwise limit a qualified individual with handicaps in the enjoyment of any right, privilege, advantage, or opportunity enjoyed by others receiving the aid, benefit, or service.
(2) The agency may not deny a qualified individual with handicaps the opportunity to participate in programs or activities that are no separate or different, despite the existence of permissibly separate or different programs or activities.
(3) The agency may not, directly or through contractual or other arrangements, utilize criteria or methods of administration the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(4) The agency may not, in determining the site or location of a facility, make selections the purpose or effect of which would—
(i) Exclude individuals with handicaps from, deny them the benefits of, or otherwise subject them to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency; or
(ii) Defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the objectives of a program or activity with respect to individuals with handicaps.
(5) The agency, in the selection of procurement contractors, may not use
criteria that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap.
(6) The agency may not administer a licensing or certification program in a manner that subjects qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap, nor may the agency establish requirements for the programs or activities of licensees or certified entities that subject qualified individuals with handicaps to discrimination on the basis of handicap. However, the programs or activities of entities that are licensed or certified by the agency are not, themselves, covered by this part.
(c) The exclusion of nonhandicapped persons from the benefits of a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to individuals with handicaps or the exclusion of a specific class of individuals with handicaps from a program limited by Federal statute or Executive order to a different class of individuals with handicaps is not prohibited by this part.
(d) The agency shall administer programs and activities in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with handicaps.
§§ 1701.131-1701.139
[Reserved]
§ 1701.140
Employment.
No qualified individual with handicaps shall, on the basis of handicap, be subjected to discrimination in employment under any program or activity conducted by the agency. The definitions, requirements, and procedures of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791), as established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614, shall apply to employment in federally conducted programs or activities.
§§ 1701.141-1701.148
[Reserved]
§ 1701.149
Program accessibility: Discrimination prohibited.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1701.150, no qualified individual with handicaps shall, because the agency's facilities are inaccessible to or unusable by individuals with handicaps, be denied the benefits of, be excluded from participation in, or otherwise be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity conducted by the agency.
§ 1701.150
Program accessibility: Existing facilities.
(a)
General.
The agency shall operate each program or activity so that the program or activity, when viewed in its entirety, is readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. This paragraph does not—
(1) Necessarily require the agency to make each of its existing facilities accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps;
(2) In the case of historic preservation programs, require the agency to take any action that would result in a substantial impairment of significant historic features of an historic property; or
(3) Require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1701.150(a) would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity, and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
(b)
Methods
—(1)
General.
The agency may comply with the requirements of this section through such means as redesign of equipment, reassignment of services to accessible buildings, assignment of aides to beneficiaries, home visits, delivery of services at alternate accessible sites, alteration of existing
facilities and construction of new facilities, use of accessible rolling stock, or any other methods that result in making its programs or activities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The agency is not required to make structural changes in existing facilities where other methods are effective in achieving compliance with this section. The agency, in making alterations to existing buildings, shall meet accessibility requirements to the extent compelled by the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), and any regulations implementing it. In choosing among available methods for meeting the requirements of this section, the agency shall give priority to those methods that offer programs and activities to qualified individuals with handicaps in the most integrated setting appropriate.
(2)
Historic preservation programs.
In meeting the requirements of § 1701.150(a) in historic preservation programs, the agency shall give priority to methods that provide physical access to individuals with handicaps. In cases where a physical alteration to an historic property is not required because of § 1701.150(a)(2) or (a)(3), alternative methods of achieving program accessibility include—
(i) Using audio-visual materials and devices to depict those portions of an historic property that cannot otherwise be made accessible;
(ii) Assigning persons to guide individuals with handicaps into or through portions of historic properties that cannot otherwise be made accessible; or
(iii) Adopting other innovative methods.
(c)
Time period for compliance.
The agency shall comply with the obligations established under this section by January 24, 1994, except that where structural changes in facilities are undertaken, such changes shall be made by November 26, 1996, but in any event as expeditiously as possible.
(d)
Transition plan.
In the event that structural changes to facilities will be undertaken to achieve program accessibility, the agency shall develop, by May 26, 1994, a transition plan setting forth the steps necessary to complete such changes. The agency shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with handicaps or organizations representing individuals with handicaps, to participate in the development of the transition plan by submitting comments (both oral and written). A copy of the transition plan shall be made available for public inspection. The plan shall, at a minimum—
(1) Identify physical obstacles in the agency's facilities that limit the accessibility of its programs or activities to individuals with handicaps;
(2) Describe in detail the methods that will be used to make the facilities accessible;
(3) Specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve compliance with this section and, if the time period of the transition plan is longer than one year, identify steps that will be taken during each year of the transition period; and
(4) Indicate the official responsible for implementation of the plan.
§ 1701.151
Program accessibility: New construction and alterations.
Each building or part of a building that is constructed or altered by, on behalf of, or for the use of the agency shall be designed, constructed, or altered so as to be readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps. The definitions, requirements, and standards of the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), as established in 41 CFR 101-19.600 to 101-19.607, apply to buildings covered by this section.
§§ 1701.152-1701.159
[Reserved]
§ 1701.160
Communications.
(a) The agency shall take appropriate steps to ensure effective communication with applicants, participants, personnel of other Federal entities, and members of the public.
(1) The agency shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aids where necessary to afford an individual with handicaps an equal opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of, a program or activity conducted by the agency.
(i) In determining what type of auxiliary aid is necessary, the agency shall
give primary consideration to the requests of the individual with handicaps.
(ii) The agency need not provide individually prescribed devices, readers for personal use or study, or other devices of a personal nature.
(2) Where the agency communicates with applicants and beneficiaries by telephone, telecommunication devices for deaf persons (TDD's) or equally effective telecommunication systems shall be used to communicate with persons with impaired hearing.
(b) The agency shall ensure that interested persons, including persons with impaired vision or hearing, can obtain information as to the existence and location of accessible services, activities, and facilities.
(c) The agency shall provide signage at a primary entrance to each of its inaccessible facilities, directing users to a location at which they can obtain information about accessible facilities. The international symbol for accessibility shall be used at each primary entrance of an accessible facility.
(d) This section does not require the agency to take any action that it can demonstrate would result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of a program or activity or in undue financial and administrative burdens. In those circumstances where agency personnel believe that the proposed action would fundamentally alter the program or activity or would result in undue financial and administrative burdens, the agency has the burden of proving that compliance with § 1701.160 would result in such alteration or burdens. The decision that compliance would result in such alteration or burdens must be made by the agency head or his or her designee after considering all agency resources available for use in the funding and operation of the conducted program or activity and must be accompanied by a written statement of the reasons for reaching that conclusion. If an action required to comply with this section would result in such an alteration or such burdens, the agency shall take any other action that would not result in such an alteration or such burdens but would nevertheless ensure that, to the maximum extent possible, individuals with handicaps receive the benefits and services of the program or activity.
§§ 1701.161-1701.169
[Reserved]
§ 1701.170
Compliance procedures.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this section applies to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of handicap in programs and activities conducted by the agency.
(b) The agency shall process complaints alleging violations of section 504 with respect to employment according to the procedures established by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 29 CFR part 1614 pursuant to section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 791).
(c) The Director for Administration, United States Institute of Peace, shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. Complaints may be sent to Director of Administration at the following address: 1550 M Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC 20005.
(d) The agency shall accept and investigate all complete complaints for which it has jurisdiction. All complete complaints must be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The agency may extend this time period for good cause.
(e) If the agency receives a complaint over which it does not have jurisdiction, it shall promptly notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate Government entity.
(f) The agency shall notify the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board upon receipt of any complaint alleging that a building or facility that is subject to the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151-4157), is not readily accessible to and usable by individuals with handicaps.
(g) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint for which it has jurisdiction, the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation in a letter containing—
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions of law;
(2) A description of a remedy for each violation found; and
(3) A notice of the right to appeal.
(h) Appeals of the findings of fact and conclusions of law or remedies must be filed by the complainant within 90 days of receipt from the agency of the letter required by § 1701.170(g). The agency may extend this time for good cause.
(i) Timely appeals shall be accepted and processed by the head of the agency.
(j) The head of the agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the appeal within 60 days of the receipt of the request. If the head of the agency determines that additional information is needed from the complainant, he or she shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the additional information to make his or her determination on the appeal.
(k) The time limits cited in paragraphs (g) and (j) of this section may be extended with the permission of the Assistant Attorney General.
(l) The agency may delegate its authority for conducting complaint investigations to other Federal agencies, except that the authority for making the final determination may not be delegated to another agency.
[58 FR 57697, 57699, Oct. 26, 1993, as amended at 58 FR 57697, Oct. 26, 1993]
§§ 1701.171-1701.999
[Reserved]
PARTS 1702-1799 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
22 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
22 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter III
313 Added
73419
Chapter V
Chapter V Heading revised
79432
531 Added
36151
Removed
79432
Chapter VII
708 Removed
20423
2021
22 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter III
306 Revised
30171
2022-2023
(No regulations published)
2024
22 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter III
303 Authority citation revised
25521
303.2 Revised
25521
303.3 Revised
25523
303.5 Revised
25523
303.6 Removed; new section redesignated from 303.7
25523
303.7 Redesignated as 303.6; new section redesignated from 303.8 and revised
25523
303.8 Redesignated as 303.7 and revised
25523
303.8 Added
25524
303.9 (a) introductory text, (5), and (b) introductory text revised
25525
(b) introductory text redesignated as (f); new (b) introductory text added; (e) heading removed
50522
303.10 (c) redesignated as (d); new (c) added
25525
303.11 Redesignated as 303.13; new section added
25525
303.11 Added
25525
Correctly redesignated as 303.12
40372
303.12 Redesignated as 303.14
25525
303.12 Revised
25526
Correctly redesignated as 303.13; new section correctly redesignated from 303.11
40372
303.13 Redesignated as 303.16; new section redesignated from 303.11
25525
303.13 Revised
25526
Correctly redesignated from 303.12
40372
303.14 Redesignated as 303.17; new section redesignated from 303.12
25525
303.14 Added
25526
303.15 Added
25527
303.16 Redesignated from 303.13
25525
New section revised
25527
303.17 Redesignated from 303.14
25525
New section (a)(1) through (6) and (b)(1) through (3) revised
25530
(b)(4) revised
50522
303.18 Added
25531
518 Removed
99696
2025
(No regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
○
