It is the policy of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to carry out its responsibility for the security of the nuclear energy program in a manner consistent with traditional American concepts of justice. To this end, the Commission has established criteria for determining eligibility for access authorization and/or employment clearance and will afford those individuals described in § 10.2 the opportunity for administrative review of questions concerning their eligibility for access authorization and/or employment clearance.
§ 10.5
Definitions.
Access authorization
means an administrative determination that an individual (including a consultant) who is employed by or an applicant for employment with the NRC, NRC contractors, agents, and licensees of the NRC, or other person designated by the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs, is eligible for a security clearance for access to Restricted Data or National Security Information.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission of five members or a quorum thereof sitting as a body, as provided by section 201 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, or its designee.
Eligible
or
Eligibility
means both initial eligibility and continued eligibility of an individual for access authorization and/or employment clearance.
Employment Clearance
means an administrative determination that an individual (including a consultant) who is an NRC employee or applicant for NRC employment and other persons designated by the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs of the NRC is eligible for employment or continued employment pursuant to subsection 145(b) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
Hearing Counsel
means an NRC attorney assigned by the General Counsel to prepare and administer hearings in accordance with this part.
Hearing Examiner
means a qualified attorney appointed by the Director, Office of Administration, to conduct a hearing in accordance with this part.
National Security Information
means information that has been determined under Executive Order 13526 or any predecessor or successor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated.
NRC Personnel Security Review Panel
means an appeal panel appointed by the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs and consisting of three members, two of whom shall be selected from outside the security field. One member of the Panel shall be designated as Chairman.
Personnel Security Review Examiners
are persons designated by the Executive Director for Operations to conduct a review of the record in accordance with this part.
Restricted Data
means all data concerning design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons, the production of special nuclear material, or the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but shall not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to section 142 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 35999, Oct. 8, 1986; 52 FR 31609, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989; 64 FR 15641, Apr. 1, 1999; 75 FR 73938, Nov. 30, 2010]

# Subpart B—Criteria for Determining Eligibility for Access to Restricted Data or National Security Information or an Employment Clearance
§ 10.10
Application of the criteria.
(a) The decision as to access authorization and/or employment clearance is a comprehensive, common-sense judgment, made after consideration of all the information, favorable or unfavorable, relevant to whether the granting of access authorization and/or employment clearance would not endanger the common defense and security and would be clearly consistent with the national interest.
(b) The criteria in § 10.11 set forth a number of the types of derogatory information used to assist in making determinations of eligibility for access authorization and/or employment clearance. These criteria are not exhaustive but contain the principal types of derogatory information which create a question as to the individual's eligibility for access authorization and/or employment clearance. While there must necessarily be adherence to such criteria, the NRC is not limited to them, nor precluded from exercising its judgment that information or facts in a case under its cognizance are derogatory although at variance with, or outside the scope of, the stated categories. These criteria are subject to continuing review and may be revised from time to time as experience and circumstances may make desirable.
(c) When the reports of investigation of an individual contain information reasonably tending to establish the truth of one or more of the items in the criteria, such information shall be regarded as derogatory and shall create a question as to the individual's eligibility for access authorization and/or employment clearance. A question concerning the eligibility of an individual for access authorization and/or employment clearance shall be resolved in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 10.20
et seq.
(d) In resolving a question concerning the eligibility or continued eligibility of an individual for access authorization and/or employment clearance, the following principles shall be applied by the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, Hearing Examiners, and the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel:
(1) Information reasonably tending to establish the truth of one or more of the items in the criteria shall be the basis for recommending denial or revocation of access authorization and/or employment clearance unless evidence to support faith in the individual's reliability and trust-worthiness is affirmatively shown.
(2) When deemed material to the deliberations, the extent of the activity, conduct, or condition, the period in which they occurred or existed, the length of time which has since elapsed, and the attitude and convictions of the individual shall be considered in determining whether the recommendation will be adverse or favorable.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 64 FR 15641, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.11
Criteria.
(a) The criteria for determining eligibility for access authorization and/or employment clearance shall relate, but not be limited, to the following where an individual:
(1) Committed, attempted to commit, aided, or abetted another who committed or attempted to commit any act of sabotage, espionage, treason, sedition, or terrorism.
(2) Publicly or privately advocated actions that may be inimical to the interest of the United States, or publicly or privately advocated the use of force or violence to overthrow the Government of the United States or the alteration of the form of government of the
United States by unconstitutional means.
(3) Knowingly established or continued a sympathetic association with a saboteur, spy, traitor, seditionist, anarchist, terrorist, or revolutionist, or with an espionage agent or other secret agent or representative of a foreign nation whose interests may be inimical to the interests of the United States, or with any person who advocates the use of force or violence to overthrow the Government of the United States or the alteration of the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means.
(4) Joined or engaged in any activity knowingly in sympathy with or in support of any foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group, or combination of persons which unlawfully advocates or practices the commission of acts of force or violence to prevent others from exercising their rights under the Constitution or laws of the United States or any State or any subdivisions thereof by unlawful means, or which advocate the use of force and violence to overthrow the Government of the United States or the alteration of the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means. (Ordinarily, criteria (3) and (4) will not include chance or casual meetings or contacts limited to normal business or official relations.)
(5) Deliberately misrepresented, falsified or omitted relevant and material facts from or in a personnel security questionnaire, a personal qualifications statement, a personnel security interview, or any other information submitted pursuant this part.
(6) Willfully violated or disregarded security regulations or was grossly negligent with respect thereto to a degree which could endanger the common defense and security; or by intention or gross carelessness disclosed Restricted Data or national security information to any person not authorized to receive it.
(7) Has any illness or mental condition which in the opinion of competent medical authority may cause significant defect in the judgment or reliability of the individual.
(8) Has been convicted of crimes indicating habitual criminal tendencies.
(9) Has been convicted of a crime, or has a background, where the facts, circumstances, or conduct are of a nature indicating poor judgment, unreliabilty, or untrustworthiness.
(10) Is a user of alcohol habitually and to excess, or has been such without adequate evidence of rehabilitation.
(11) Has been, or is, a user of a drug or other substance listed in the schedules of Controlled Substances established pursuant to the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 (such as amphetamines, barbiturates, narcotics, etc.), except as prescribed or administered by a physician licensed to dispense drugs in the practice of medicine, without adequate evidence of rehabilitation.
(12) Refused, without satisfactory explanation, to answer questions before a congressional committee, Federal or state court, or Federal administrative body including the NRC regarding charges relevant to the individual's eligibility for access authorization and/or employment clearance.
(13) Engaged in any other conduct or is subject to any other circumstances which tend to show that the individual is not reliable or trustworthy, or which furnishes reason to believe that the individual may be subject to coercion, influence, or pressures which may cause the individual to act contrary to the national interest.
§ 10.12
Interview and other investigation.
(a) The Director, Division of Facilities and Security, Office of Administration, may authorize the granting of access authorization and/or employment clearance on the basis of the information in the possession of the NRC or may authorize an interview with the individual, if the individual consents to be interviewed, or other investigation as the Director deems appropriate. On the basis of this interview and/or an investigation, the Director may authorize the granting of access authorization and/or employment clearance.
(b) The individual may elect on constitutional or other grounds not to participate in an interview or other investigation; however, such refusal or failure to furnish or authorize the furnishing of relevant and material information is deemed to be derogatory information pursuant to § 10.11(a) (5) and (12).
(c) If the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, cannot make a favorable finding regarding the eligibility of an individual for access authorization and/or employment clearance, the question of the individual's eligibility must be resolved in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 10.20
et seq.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31609, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989; 64 FR 15642, Apr. 1, 1999]

# Subpart C—Procedures
§ 10.20
Purpose of the procedures.
These procedures establish methods for the conduct of hearings and administrative review of questions concerning an individual's eligibility for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and Executive Orders 10450, 10865, and 12968 when a resolution favorable to the individual cannot be made on the basis of the interview or other investigation.
[64 FR 15642, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.21
Suspension of access authorization and/or employment clearance.
In those cases where information is received which raises a question concerning the continued eligibility of an individual for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance, the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, through the Director, Office of Administration, shall forward to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs or other Deputy Executive Director, his or her recommendation as to whether the individual's access authorization and/or employment clearance should be suspended pending the final determination resulting from the operation of the procedures provided in this part. In making this recommendation the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, shall consider factors such as the seriousness of the derogatory information developed, the degree of access of the individual to classified information, and the individual's opportunity by reason of his or her position to commit acts adversely affecting the national security. An individual's access authorization and/or employment clearance may not be suspended except by the direction of the Executive Director for Operations, Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs or other Deputy Executive Director.
[64 FR 15642, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.22
Notice to individual.
A notification letter, prepared by the Division of Facilities and Security, approved by the Office of the General Counsel, and signed by the Director, Office of Administration, must be presented to each individual whose eligibility for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance is in question. Where practicable, the letter will be presented to the individual in person. The letter will be accompanied by a copy of this part and must state:
(a) That reliable information in the possession of the NRC has created a substantial doubt concerning the individual's eligibility for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance;
(b) The information that creates a substantial doubt regarding the individual's eligibility for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance, that must be as comprehensive and detailed as the national security interests and other applicable law permit;
(c) That the individual has the right to be represented by counsel or other representative at their own expense;
(d) That the individual may request within 20 days of the date of the notification letter, any documents, records and reports which form the basis for the question of their eligibility for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance. The individual will be
provided within 30 days all such documents, records and reports to the extent they are unclassified and do not reveal a confidential source. The individual may also request the entire investigative file, which will be promptly provided, as permitted by the national security interests and other applicable law;
(e) That unless the individual files with the Director, Office of Administration, a written request for a hearing within 20 days of the individual's receipt of the notification letter or 20 days after receipt of the information provided in response to a request made under paragraph (d) of this section, whichever is later, the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, through the Director, Office of Administration, will submit a recommendation as to the final action to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programson the basis of the information in the possession of the NRC;
(f) That if the individual files a written request for a hearing with the Director, Office of Administration, the individual shall file with that request a written answer under oath or affirmation that admits or denies specifically each allegation and each supporting fact contained in the notification letter. A general denial is not sufficient to controvert a specific allegation. If the individual is without knowledge, he or she shall so state and that statement will operate as a denial. The answer must also state any additional facts and information that the individual desires to have considered in explanation or mitigation of allegations in the notification letter. Failure to specifically deny or explain or deny knowledge of any allegation or supporting fact will be deemed an admission that the allegation or fact is true.
(g) That if the individual does not want to exercise his or her right to a hearing, but does want to submit an answer to the allegations in the notification letter, the individual may do so by filing with the Director, Office of Administration, within 20 days of receipt of the notification letter or 20 days after receipt of the information provided in response to a request made under paragraph (d) of this section, whichever is later, a written answer in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section;
(h) That the procedures in § 10.24
et seq.
will apply to any hearing and review.
[64 FR 15642, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.23
Failure of individual to request a hearing.
(a) In the event the individual fails to file a timely written request for a hearing pursuant to § 10.22, a recommendation as to the final action to be taken will be made by the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, through the Director, Office of Administration, to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs on the basis of the information in the possession of the NRC, including any answer filed by the individual.
(b) The Director, Office of Administration, may for good cause shown, at the request of the individual, extend the time for filing a written request for a hearing or for filing a written answer to the matters contained in the notification letter.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31609, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989; 64 FR 15642, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.24
Procedures for hearing and review.
(a) Upon receipt of a timely filed request for a hearing and answer complying with the requirements set forth in § 10.22, the Director, Office of Administration, shall forthwith appoint a Hearing Examiner, and the General Counsel shall forthwith assign an NRC attorney to act as Hearing Counsel. The Director, Office of Administration, shall promptly notify the individual of the identity of the Hearing Examiner and proposed hearing date, which shall be selected with due regard for the convenience of the parties and their representatives.
(b) Within 72 hours of being notified of the identity of the Hearing Examiner, the individual may request that the Hearing Examiner be disqualified for cause by filing with the Director, Office of Administration, a written
statement of the individual's reasons for seeking disqualification. The time for filing the request may be extended by the Director, Office of Administration, for good cause shown. If the Director, Office of Administration, grants the request the procedures of paragraph (a) of this section and this paragraph shall be followed just as though there had been no prior appointment.
(c) The individual shall have the right to appear at the hearing before the Hearing Examiner, to be represented by counsel or other representative, to introduce documentary or other evidence, and to call, examine, and cross-examine witnesses, subject to the provisions and limitations set forth in this part.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 35999, Oct. 8, 1986; 52 FR 31609, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989]
§ 10.25
NRC Hearing Counsel.
(a) Hearing Counsel assigned pursuant to § 10.24 will, before the scheduling of the hearing, review the information in the case and will request the presence of witnesses and the production of documents and other physical evidence relied upon by the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, in making a finding that a question exists regarding the eligibility of the individual for an NRC access authorization and/or an employment clearance in accordance with the provisions of this part. When the presence of a witness and the production of documents and other physical evidence is deemed by the Hearing Counsel to be necessary or desirable for a determination of the issues, the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, will make arrangements for the production of evidence and for witnesses to appear at the hearing by subpoena or otherwise.
(b) Hearing Counsel is authorized to consult directly with individual's counsel or representative or the individual, if the individual is not so represented, for purposes of reaching mutual agreement upon arrangements for expeditious hearing of the case. Such arrangements may include clarification of issues and stipulations with respect to testimony and contents of documents and other physical evidence. Such stipulations when entered into shall be binding upon the individual and the NRC for the purposes of this part. Prior to any consultation with the individual, the Hearing Counsel shall advise the individual of his or her rights under this part, of his or her right to counsel or other representation, and of the possibility that any statement made by the individual to the Hearing Counsel may be used in subsequent proceedings.
(c) The individual is responsible for producing witnesses in his or her own behalf and/or presenting other evidence before the Hearing Examiner to support the individual's answer and defense to the allegations contained in the notification letter. When requested by the individual, however, the Hearing Counsel may assist the individual to the extent practicable and necessary. The Hearing Counsel may at his or her discretion request the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, to arrange for the issuance of subpoenas for witnesses to attend the hearing in the individual's behalf, or for the production of specific documents or other physical evidence, provided a showing of the necessity for assistance has been made.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 64 FR 15643, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.26
Appointment of Hearing Examiner.
The appointment of a Hearing Examiner, pursuant to § 10.24 of this part, shall be from a list of qualified attorneys possessing the highest degree of integrity, ability, and good judgment. To qualify, an attorney shall have an NRC “Q” access authorization and may be an employee of the NRC, its contractors, agents or licensees. However, no employee or consultant of the NRC shall serve as Hearing Examiner hearing the case of an employee (including a consultant) or applicant for employment with the NRC; nor shall any employee or consultant of an NRC contractor, agent or licensee serve as Hearing Examiner hearing the case of an employee (including a consultant) or an applicant for employment of that contractor, agent, or licensee. No Hearing Examiner shall be selected who has knowledge of the case or of any information relevant to the disposition of
it, or who for any reason would be unable to issue a fair and unbiased recommendation.
§ 10.27
Prehearing proceedings.
(a) After the appointment of the Hearing Examiner, he or she shall be furnished the record in the case, which shall consist of the letter of notification, the request for hearing and its supporting answer, and the notice of hearing, if it has been issued, and any stipulations agreed to by the individual and the Hearing Counsel.
(b) The Hearing Examiner may on his or her own motion, or on that of either party, convene a prehearing conference with the Hearing Counsel and the individual and his or her counsel or representative, if any, for the purpose of clarifying the issues, identifying witnesses who may be called, identifying documents and other physical evidence that may be offered into evidence, and entering into stipulations of fact.
(c) The parties will be notified by the Hearing Examiner at least ten days in advance of the hearing of the time and place of the hearing. For good cause shown, the Hearing Examiner may order postponements or continuances from time to time. If, after due notice, the individual fails to appear at the hearing, or appears but is not prepared to proceed, the Hearing Examiner shall, unless good cause is shown, return the case to the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, who shall make a recommendation on final action to be taken, through the Director, Office of Administration, to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs on the basis of the information in the possession of the NRC.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31609, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989; 64 FR 15643, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.28
Conduct of hearing.
(a) The Hearing Examiner shall conduct the hearing in an orderly, impartial and decorous manner. Technical rules of evidence may be relaxed so that a full evidentiary record may be made based on all material and relevant facts. Hearsay evidence may for good cause shown be received at the discretion of the Hearing Examiner and accorded such weight as the circumstances warrant.
(b) The proceedings shall be open only to duly authorized representatives of the staff of the NRC, the individual, his or her counsel or representative, and such persons as may be officially authorized by the Hearing Examiner. Witnesses shall not testify in the presence of other witnesses except that the Hearing Examiner may, at his or her discretion, allow for expert witnesses to be present during testimony relevant to their own testimony.
(c) Witnesses, including the individual, shall be examined under oath or affirmation by the party who called them and may be cross-examined by the other. The Hearing Examiner shall rule on all evidentiary matters, may further examine any witness, and may call for additional witnesses or the production of documentary or other physical evidence if, in the exercise of his or her discretion, such additional evidence is deemed necessary to the resolution of an issue.
(d) If it appears during the hearing that Restricted Data or national security information may be disclosed, the Hearing Examiner shall assure that disclosure is made only to persons authorized to receive it.
(e) The Hearing Examiner may, at any time during the hearing, permit the Hearing Counsel to amend the notification letter to add or modify allegations to be considered. In the event of such an amendment to the notification letter, the individual shall be given an opportunity to answer the amended allegations. If the changes are of such a substantial nature that the individual cannot answer the amended allegations without additional time, the Hearing Examiner shall grant such additional time as he or she deems necessary.
(f) The Hearing Examiner may receive and consider evidence in the form of depositions or responses to interrogatories upon a showing that the witness is not available for good reason such as death, serious illness or similar cause, or in the form of depositions, interrogatories, affidavits or statements with agreement of the parties. The Hearing Examiner may take official
notice at any stage of the proceeding, where appropriate, of any fact not subject to reasonable dispute in that it is either (1) generally known within the United States or (2) capable of accurate and ready determination by resort to sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned. A party is entitled upon timely request to an opportunity to be heard as to the propriety of taking such official notice. In the absence of prior notification the request may be made after notice is taken.
(g) Hearing Counsel shall examine and cross-examine witnesses and otherwise assist the Hearing Examiner in such a manner as to bring out a full and true disclosure of all facts, both favorable and unfavorable, having a bearing on the issues before the Hearing Examiner. In performing these duties, the Hearing Counsel shall avoid the attitude of a prosecutor and shall always bear in mind that the proceeding is an administrative hearing and not a trial.
(h) Hearing Counsel shall not participate in the deliberations of the Hearing Examiner, and shall express no opinion to the Hearing Examiner concerning the merits of the case. Hearing Counsel shall also, during the course of the hearing, advise the individual of his or her rights under these procedures when the individual is not represented by counsel or other representative.
(i) The individual shall be afforded an opportunity to cross-examine persons who have made oral or written statements adverse to the individual relating to a controverted issue except that any such statement may be received and considered by the Hearing Examiner without affording such opportunity in either of the following circumstances:
(1) The head of the department or agency supplying the statement certifies that the person who furnished the information is a confidential informant who has been engaged in obtaining intelligence information for the Government and that disclosure of the informant's identity would substantially harm the national interest or would endanger the well-being of the informant.
(2) The Commission has determined, after considering the information furnished by the investigative agency concerning the reliability of the person who furnished the information and the accuracy of the statement concerned, that the statement appears to be reliable and material, and that failure of the Hearing Examiner to receive and consider such statement would, in view of the fact that access authorization and/or employment clearance is being sought, be substantially harmful to the national security and that the person who furnished the information cannot appear to testify due to death, serious illness, or similar cause.
(j)(1) Whenever the procedure under paragraph (i)(1) of this section is used, the individual shall be given a summary of the information which shall be as comprehensive and detailed as the national security permits.
(2) Whenever the procedure under paragraph (i)(2) is used, the individual shall be provided the identity of the person and the information to be considered.
(3) In both paragraph (i) (1) and (2) procedures, appropriate consideration shall be accorded to the fact that the individual did not have an opportunity to cross-examine such informant or person.
(k) Records provided by investigative agencies that were compiled as a regular or routine procedure by the business or agency from which obtained, or other physical evidence other than investigative reports, may be received and considered subject to rebuttal without authenticating witnesses, provided that the investigative agency furnished such information to the NRC pursuant to its responsibilities in connection with assisting the NRC in determining the individual's eligibility for access authorization and/or employment clearance.
(l) Records compiled in the regular course of business, or other physical evidence other than investigative reports, relating to a controverted issue which, because they are classified, may not be inspected by the individual, may be received and considered provided that:
(1) The Commission has made a determination that such records or other physical evidence appears to be material;
(2) The Commission has made a determination that failure to receive and consider such records or other physical evidence would, in view of the fact that access authorization and/or employment clearance is being sought, be substantially harmful to the national security; and
(3) To the extent that national security permits, a summary or description of such records or other physical evidence is made available to the individual. In every such case, information as to the authenticity and accuracy of such physical evidence furnished by the investigative agency shall be considered.
(m) If the Hearing Examiner determines that additional investigation of any material information is required, he or she shall request in writing that the Director, Office of Administration, arrange for the investigation and shall specify those issues upon which more evidence is requested and identify, where possible, any persons or sources that might provide the evidence sought.
(n) A written transcript of the entire proceeding must be made by a person possessing appropriate NRC access authorization and/or employment clearance and, except for portions containing Restricted Data or National Security Information, or other lawfully withholdable information, a copy of the transcript will be furnished the individual without cost. The transcript or recording will be made part of the applicant's or employee's personnel security file.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31609, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989; 64 FR 15643, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.29
Recommendation of the Hearing Examiner.
(a) The Hearing Examiner's findings and recommendation shall be based upon the entire record consisting of the transcript of the hearing, the documentary and other evidence adduced therein, and the letter of notification and answer. The Hearing Examiner shall also consider the circumstances of the receipt of evidence pursuant to § 10.28, the individual's record of past employment, and the nature and sensitivity of the job the individual is or may be expected to perform.
(b) The Hearing Examiner shall make specific findings on each allegation in the notification letter including the reasons for his or her findings, and shall make a recommendation as to the action which should be taken in the case.
(c) The Hearing Examiner's recommendation shall be predicated upon his or her findings. If, after considering all the factors in light of the criteria in this part, the Hearing Examiner is of the opinion that granting or continuing access authorization and/or employment clearance to the individual will not endanger the common defense and security and will be clearly consistent with the national interest, a favorable recommendation shall be made; otherwise, an adverse recommendation shall be made.
(d) The Hearing Examiner shall submit his or her findings and recommendation in a signed report together with the record of the case to the Director, Office Administration, with the least practical delay.
(e) The Hearing Examiner shall not consider the possible impact of the loss of the individual's services upon the NRC program.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31609, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989]
§ 10.30
New evidence.
After the close of the hearing, in the event the individual discovers new evidence not previously available or known to him or her, the individual may petition the Hearing Examiner if the Hearing Examiner's recommendation has not yet been issued, or thereafter, the Director, Office of Administration, to reopen the record to receive that evidence. If the Hearing Examiner or the Director, respectively, deem it material and appropriate, the record may be reopened to accept the evidence either by stipulation, with the agreement of the Hearing Counsel, or in a reconvened hearing.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31610, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989]
§ 10.31
Actions on the recommendations.
(a) Upon receipt of the findings and recommendation from the Hearing Examiner, and the record, the Director, Office of Administration, shall forthwith transmit it to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs who has the discretion to return the record to the Director, Office of Administration, for further proceedings by the Hearing Examiner with respect to specific matters designated by the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs.
(b)(1) In the event of a recommendation by the Hearing Examiner that an individual's access authorization and/or employment clearance be denied or revoked, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs shall immediately notify the individual in writing of the Hearing Examiner's findings with respect to each allegation contained in the notification letter, and that the individual has a right to request a review of his or her case by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel and of the right to submit a brief in support of his or her contentions. The request for a review must be submitted to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs within five days after the receipt of the notice. The brief will be forwarded to the for transmission to the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel not later than 10 days after receipt of the notice.
(2) In the event the individual fails to request a review by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel of an adverse recommendation within the prescribed time, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs may at his or her discretion request a review of the record of the case by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel. The request will set forth those matters at issue in the hearing on which the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs desires a review by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel.
(c) Where the Hearing Examiner has made a recommendation favorable to the individual, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programsmay at his or her discretion request a review of the record of the case by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel. If this request is made, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programsshall immediately cause the individual to be notified of that fact and of those matters at issue in the hearing on which the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programsdesires a review by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel. The Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programswill further inform the individual that within 10 days of receipt of this notice, the individual may submit a brief concerning those matters at issue for the consideration of the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel. The brief must be forwarded to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs for transmission to the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel.
(d) In the event of a request for a review pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Hearing Counsel may file a brief within 10 days of being notified by the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programsthat a review has been requested. The brief will be forwarded to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programsfor transmission to
the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel.
(e) The Hearing Counsel may also request a review of the case by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel. The request for review, which will set forth those matters at issue in the hearing on which the Hearing Counsel desires a review, will be submitted to the Deputy Director Executive for Management Services within five days after receipt of the Hearing Examiner's findings and recommendation. Within 10 days of the request for review, the Hearing Counsel may file a brief which will be forwarded to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs and Chief for transmission to the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel. A copy of the request for review, and a copy of any brief filed, will be immediately sent to the individual. If the Hearing Counsel's request is for a review of a recommendation favorable to the individual, the individual may, within 10 days of receipt of a copy of the request for review, submit a brief concerning those matters at issue for consideration of the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel. The brief will be forwarded to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs and Chief Information Officer for transmission to the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel and Hearing Counsel. A copy of the brief will be made a part of the applicant's personnel security file.
(f) The time limits imposed by this section for requesting reviews and the filing of briefs may be extended by the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs for good cause shown.
(g) In the event a request is made for a review of the record by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs shall send the record, with all findings and recommendations and any briefs filed by the individual and the Hearing Counsel, to the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel. If neither the individual, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs and, nor the Hearing Counsel requests a review, the final determination will be made by the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs on the basis of the record with all findings and recommendations.
[64 FR 15643, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.32
Recommendation of the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel.
(a) The Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programsshall designate an NRC Personnel Security Review Panel to conduct a review of the record of the case. The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall be comprised of three members, two of whom shall be selected from outside the security field. To qualify as an NRC Personnel Security Review Panel member, the person designated shall have an NRC “Q” access authorization and may be an employee of the NRC, its contractors, agents, or licensees. However, no employee or consultant of the NRC shall serve as an NRC Personnel Security Review Panel member reviewing the case of an employee (including a consultant) or applicant for employment with the NRC; nor shall any employee or consultant of an NRC contractor, agent or licensee serve as an NRC Personnel Security Review Panel member reviewing the case of an employee (including a consultant) or an applicant for employment of that contractor, agent, or licensee. No NRC Personnel Security Review Panel member shall be selected who has knowledge of the case or of any information relevant to the disposition of it, or who for any reason would be unable to issue a fair and unbiased recommendation.
(b) The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall consider the matter under review based upon the record supplemented by any brief submitted by the individual or the Hearing Counsel. The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel may request additional
briefs as the Panel deems appropriate. When the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel determines that additional evidence or further proceedings are necessary, the record may be returned to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs with a recommendation that the case be returned to the Director, Office of Administration, for appropriate action, which may include returning the case to the Hearing Examiner and reconvening the hearing to obtain additional testimony. When additional testimony is taken by the Hearing Examiner, a written transcript of the testimony will be made a part of the record and will be taken by a person possessing an appropriate NRC access authorization and/or employment clearance and, except for portions containing Restricted Data or National Security Information, or other lawfully withholdable information, a copy of the transcript will be furnished the individual without cost.
(c) In conducting the review, the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall make its findings and recommendations as to the eligibility or continued eligibility of an individual for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance on the record supplemented by additional testimony or briefs, as has been previously determined by the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel as appropriate.
(d) The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall not consider the possible impact of the loss of the individual's services upon the NRC program.
(e) If, after considering all the factors in light of the criteria set forth in this part, the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel is of the opinion that granting or continuing an access authorization and/or an employment clearance to the individual will not endanger the common defense and security and will be clearly consistent with the national interest, the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall make a favorable recommendation; otherwise, the NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall make an adverse recommendation. The NRC Personnel Security Review Panel shall prepare a report of its findings and recommendations and submit the report in writing to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs , who shall furnish a copy to the individual. The findings and recommendations must be fully supported by stated reasons.
[64 FR 15644, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.33
Action by the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs.
(a) The Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs, on the basis of the record accompanied by all findings and recommendations, shall make a final determination whether access authorization and/or employment clearance shall be granted, denied, or revoked, except when the provisions of § 10.28 (i), (j), or (l) have been used and the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs determination is adverse, the Commission shall make the final agency determination.
(b) In making the determination as to whether an access authorization and/or an employment clearance shall be granted, denied, or revoked, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs or the Commission shall give due recognition to the favorable as well as the unfavorable information concerning the individual and shall take into account the value of the individual's services to the NRC's program and the consequences of denying or revoking access authorization and/or employment clearance.
(c) In the event of an adverse determination, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs shall promptly notify the individual through the Director, Office of Administration, of his or her decision that an
access authorization and/or an employment clearance is being denied or revoked and of his or her findings with respect to each allegation contained in the notification letter for transmittal to the individual.
(d) In the event of a favorable determination, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs shall promptly notify the individual through the Director, Office of Administration.
[64 FR 15644, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.34
Action by the Commission.
(a) Whenever, under the provisions of § 10.28(i), (j), or (l) an individual has not been afforded an opportunity to confront and cross-examine witnesses who have furnished information adverse to the individual and an adverse recommendation has been made by the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs , the Commission shall review the record and determine whether an access authorization and/or an employment clearance should be granted, denied, or revoked, based upon the record.
(b) When the Commission determines to deny or revoke access authorization and/or employment clearance, the individual shall promptly be notified through the Director, Office of Administration, of its decision that access authorization and/or employment clearance is being denied or revoked and of its findings and conclusions with respect to each allegation contained in the notification letter for transmittal to the individual.
(c) Nothing contained in these procedures shall be deemed to limit or affect the responsibility and powers of the Commission to deny or revoke access to Restricted Data or national security information if the security of the nation so requires. Such authority may not be delegated and may be exercised when the Commission determines that invocation of the procedures prescribed in this part is inconsistent with the national security. Such determination shall be conclusive.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31610, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989; 64 FR 15645, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 10.35
Reconsideration of cases.
(a) Where, pursuant to the procedures set forth in §§ 10.20 through 10.34, the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs or the Commission has made a determination granting an access authorization and/or an employment clearance to an individual, the individual's eligibility for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance will be reconsidered only when subsequent to the time of that determination, new derogatory information has been received or the scope or sensitivity of the Restricted Data or National Security Information to which the individual has or will have access has significantly increased. All new derogatory information, whether resulting from the NRC's reinvestigation program or other sources, will be evaluated relative to an individual's continued eligibility in accordance with the procedures of this part.
(b) Where, pursuant to these procedures, the Commission or Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs has made a determination denying or revoking an access authorization and/or an employment clearance to an individual, the individual's eligibility for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance may be reconsidered when there is a bona fide offer of employment and/or a bona fide need for access to Restricted Data or National Security Information and either material and relevant new evidence is presented, which the individual and his or her representatives are without fault in failing to present before, or there is convincing evidence
of reformation or rehabilitation. Requests for reconsideration must be submitted in writing to the Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs through the Director, Office of Administration. Requests must be accompanied by an affidavit setting forth in detail the information referred to above. The Deputy Executive Director for Materials, Waste, Research, State, Tribal, Compliance, Administration, and Human Capital Programs shall cause the individual to be notified as to whether his or her eligibility for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance will be reconsidered and if so, the method by which a reconsideration will be accomplished.
(c) Where an access authorization and/or an employment clearance has been granted to an individual by the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, without recourse to the procedures set forth in §§ 10.20 through 10.34, the individual's eligibility for an access authorization and/or an employment clearance will be reconsidered only in a case where, subsequent to the granting of the access authorization and/or employment clearance, new derogatory information has been received or the scope or sensitivity of the Restricted Data or National Security Information to which the individual has or will have access has significantly increased. All new derogatory information, whether resulting from the NRC's reinvestigation program or other sources, will be evaluated relative to an individual's continued eligibility in accordance with the procedures of this part.
[64 FR 15645, Apr. 1, 1999]

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous
§ 10.36
Terminations.
In the event the individual is no longer an applicant for access authorization and/or employment clearance or no longer requires such, the procedures of this part shall be terminated without a final determination as to the individual's eligibility for access authorization and/or employment clearance.
§ 10.37
Attorney representation.
In the event the individual is represented by an attorney or other representative, the individual shall file with the Director, Office of Administration, a document designating such attorney or representative and authorizing such attorney or representative to receive all correspondence, transcripts, and other documents pertaining to the proceeding under this part.
[47 FR 38676, Sept. 2, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31610, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989]
§ 10.38
Certifications.
Whenever information is made a part of the record under the exceptions authorized by § 10.28 (i), (j), or (l), the record shall contain certificates evidencing that the required determinations have been made.
Pt. 11

# PART 11—CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR ACCESS TO OR CONTROL OVER SPECIAL NUCLEAR MATERIAL

# General Provisions
Sec.
11.1
Purpose.
11.3
Scope.
11.5
Policy.
11.7
Definitions.
11.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
11.9
Specific exemptions.
11.10
Maintenance of records.

# Requirements for Special Nuclear Material Access Authorization
11.11
General requirements.
11.13
Special requirements for transportation.
11.15
Application for special nuclear material access authorization.
11.16
Cancellation of request for special nuclear material access authorization.

# Criteria for Determining Eligibility for Access to, or Control Over, Special Nuclear Material
11.21
Application of the criteria.

# Violations
11.30
Violations.
11.32
Criminal penalties.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 161, 223 (42 U.S.C. 2201, 2273); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, sec. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.
Section 11.15(e) also issued under 31 U.S.C. 9701; 42 U.S.C. 2214.

# Source:
45 FR 76970, Nov. 21, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 11.1
Purpose.
This part establishes the requirements for special nuclear material access authorization, and the criteria and procedures for resolving questions concerning the eligibility of individuals to receive special nuclear material access authorization for conduct of certain activities, licensed or otherwise, which involve access to or control over special nuclear material.
§ 11.3
Scope.
(a) The requirements, criteria, and procedures of this part apply to the establishment of and eligibility for special nuclear material access authorization for employees, contractors, consultants of, and applicants for employment with licensees or contractors of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. This employment, contract, service, or consultation may involve any duties or assignments within the criteria of § 11.11 or § 11.13 requiring access to, or control over, formula quantities of special nuclear material (as defined in part 73 of this chapter).
(b) The requirements, criteria, and procedures of this part are in addition to and not in lieu of any requirements, criteria, or procedures for access to or control over classified special nuclear material.
[45 FR 76970, Nov. 21, 1980, as amended at 64 FR 15645, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 11.5
Policy.
It is the policy of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to carry out its authority to establish and administer, in a manner consistent with traditional American concepts of justice, a personnel security program in the interests of the common defense and security for the purpose of safeguarding special nuclear material and preventing sabotage which would endanger the public by exposure to radiation. To this end, the Commission has established criteria for determining eligibility for special nuclear material access authorization and will afford affected individuals the opportunity for administrative review of questions concerning their eligibility for special nuclear material access authorization.
§ 11.7
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Terms defined in parts 10, 25, 50, 70, 72, 73, and 95 of this chapter have the same meaning when used in this part.
NRC-“R” special nuclear material access authorization
means an administrative determination based upon a Tier 3 background investigation that an individual in the course of employment is eligible to work at a job falling within the criterion of § 11.11(a)(2).
NRC-“U” special nuclear material access authorization
means an administrative determination based upon a Tier 5 background investigation that an individual in the course of employment is eligible to work at a job falling within the criterion of § 11.11(a)(1) or § 11.13.
Special nuclear material access authorization
means an administrative determination that an individual (including a contractor or consultant) who is employed by or is an applicant for employment with an affected Commission contractor, licensee of the Commission, or contractor of a licensee of the Commission may work at a job which affords access to or control over special nuclear material and that permitting the individual to work at that job would not be inimical to the common defense and security.
[45 FR 76970, Nov. 21, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 58282, Dec. 1, 1981; 50 FR 39077, Sept. 27, 1985; 55 FR 11574, Mar. 29, 1990; 64 FR 15645, Apr. 1, 1999; 86 FR 43401, Aug. 9, 2021; 87 FR 45239, July 28, 2022]
§ 11.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C.
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is
not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0062.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 11.9, 11.11, 11.13, 11.15, and 11.16.
(c) In § 11.15, the Standard Form 86 (SF-86), “Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP), SF-86—Questionnaire for National Security Positions,” is approved under control number 3206-0005.
[62 FR 52185, Oct. 6, 1997, as amended at 87 FR 45240, July 28, 2022]
§ 11.9
Specific exemptions.
The Commission may, upon application of any interested party, grant an exemption from the requirements of this part. Exemptions will be granted only if they are authorized by law and will not constitute an undue risk to the common defense and security. Documentation related to the request, notification and processing of an exemption shall be maintained for three years beyond the period covered by the exemption.
[45 FR 76970, Nov. 21, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 19245, May 27, 1988]
§ 11.10
Maintenance of records.
Each record required by this part must be legible throughout the retention period specified by each Commission regulation. The record may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform provided that the copy or microform is authenticated by authorized personnel and that the microform is capable of producing a clear copy throughout the required retention period. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawing, specification, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures etc. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
[53 FR 19245, May 27, 1988]

# Requirements for Special Nuclear Material Access Authorization
§ 11.11
General requirements.
(a) Each licensee who uses, processes, stores, transports, or delivers to a carrier for transport, formula quantities of special nuclear material (as defined in part 73 of this chapter) subject to the physical protection requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, 73.45, and 73.46, and each person subject to the general licensing requirements of § 70.20a, shall identify at its facility or plant (excluding all non-power reactor facilities and storage of fuel incident thereto and facilities and plants in which the licensee possesses or uses only irradiated special nuclear material subject to the exemption of § 73.6(b)), describe, and if not already provided, provide to the Commission, by December 26, 1985 by amendment to its security plan:
(1) All jobs in which an individual could steal or divert special nuclear material, or commit sabotage which would endanger the public by exposure to radiation, by working alone or in cooperation with an individual who does not possess an NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization, or by directing or coercing any individual to assist in the theft, diversion, or sabotage. Such jobs include but are not limited to:
(i) All positions in the licensee's security force,
(ii) Management positions with the authority to:
(A) Direct the actions of members of the security force or alter security procedures, or
(B) Direct routine movements of special nuclear material, or
(C) Direct the routine status of vital equipment.
(iii) All jobs which require unescorted access within onsite alarm stations.
(iv) All jobs which require unescorted access
2
to special nuclear material or within vital areas.
2
This does not alter the requirement for methods to observe individuals within material access areas as stated in § 73.46(e)(9) of this chapter.
(2) All jobs which require unescorted access within protected areas and
which do not fall within the criterion of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b) After 365 days following Commission approval of the amended security plan submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, no individual may be permitted to work at any job determined by the Commission to fall within the criterion of paragraph (a)(1) of this section without an NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization, and no individual may be permitted unescorted access to any protected area at any site subject to this part without either an NRC-U or NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization. The exceptions to the requirement for an NRC-U and NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization are as follows:
(1) Exceptions to the requirement for an NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization for an individual to work at a job within the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) are provided for:
(i) Any individual employed in such a job on October 28, 1985, who is not yet in receipt of an NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization from the Commission, provided that a complete application has been submitted to and is pending before the NRC for processing for that employee in accordance with § 11.15 (a) and (b); or
(ii) Any individual in possession of an NRC-L or R access authorization or an equivalent active Federal security clearance but not yet in receipt of the NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization, provided that a complete application has been submitted to and is pending before the NRC for processing for that employee in accordance with § 11.15 (a) or (b), or both.
(2) Exceptions to the requirement for an NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization for an individual to have unescorted access to a protected area are provided for:
(i) Any individual employed in such a job on October 28, 1985 who is not yet in receipt of an NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization from the Commission, provided that a complete application has been submitted to and is pending before the NRC for processing for that employee in accordance with § 11.15 (a) and (b); or
(ii) Any individual in possession of an NRC-L access authorization or an equivalent active Federal security clearance, provided that a complete application has been submitted to the NRC for processing for that employee in accordance with § 11.15 (a) or (b), or both.
[45 FR 76970, Nov. 21, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 56599, Nov. 18, 1981; 50 FR 39077, Sept. 27, 1985]
§ 11.13
Special requirements for transportation.
(a) All individuals who, after 365 days following approval of the amended security plan submitted in accordance with § 11.11(a), transport, arrange for transport, drive motor vehicles in road shipments of special nuclear material, pilot aircraft in air shipments of special nuclear material, act as monitors at transfer points, or escort road, rail, sea, or air shipments of special nuclear material subject to the appropriate physical protection requirements of §§ 73.20, 73.25, 73.26, or 73.27 of this chapter, or who are authorized to alter the scheduling and routing of such transport shall have NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization. Exceptions are provided for:
(1) Any individual who is employed in such a job on October 28, 1985 and who is not yet in receipt of an NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization from the Commission, provided that a complete application has been submitted to and is pending before the NRC for processing for that employee in accordance with § 11.15 (a) and (b) or
(2) Any individual in possession of an NRC-L or R access authorization or equivalent active Federal security clearance but not yet in receipt of the NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization, provided that a complete application has been submitted to and is pending before the NRC for processing for that employee in accordance with § 11.15 (a) or (b), or both.
(b) Each licensee who, 365 days after Commission approval of the amended security plan submitted in accordance with § 11.11(a), transports or delivers to a carrier for transport special nuclear material subject to the physical protection requirement of §§ 73.20, 73.25,
73.26, or 73.27 of this chapter shall confirm and record prior to shipment the name and special nuclear material access authorization number of all individuals identified in paragraph (a) of this section assigned to the shipment. The licensee shall retain this record for three years after the last shipment is made. However, the licensee need not confirm and record the special nuclear material access authorization number in the case of any individual for whom an application has been submitted and is pending before the NRC in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
[50 FR 39078, Sept. 27, 1985, as amended at 53 FR 19245, May 27, 1988]
§ 11.15
Application for special nuclear material access authorization.
(a)(1) Application for special nuclear material access authorization, renewal, or change in level must be filed by the licensee on behalf of the applicant with the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, Mail Stop T7-D57, either by mail addressed to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. Applications for affected individuals employed on October 28, 1985, shall be submitted within 60 days of notification of Commission approval of the amended security plan.
(2) Licensees who wish to secure NRC-U or NRC-R special nuclear material access authorizations for individuals in possession of an active NRC Q or L access authorization or other security clearance granted by another Federal agency based on an equivalent investigation shall submit a “Security Acknowledgment” (NRC Form 176) and a “Request for Access Authorization” (NRC Form 237). NRC will process these requests by verifying the data on an NRC-cleared individual, or by contacting the Federal agency that granted the clearance, requesting certification of the security clearance, and determining the investigative basis and level of the clearance. Licensees may directly request the Federal agency that administered the security clearance, if other than NRC, to certify to the NRC that it has on file an active security clearance for an individual and to specify the investigative basis and level of the clearance.
(b) Applications for special nuclear material access authorization for individuals, other than those qualifying under the provisions of § 11.15(a)(2), must be made on forms supplied by the Commission, including:
(1) Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP), SF-86—Questionnaire for National Security Positions;
(2) Two completed standard fingerprint cards (FD-258);
(3) Security Acknowledgment (NRC Form 176);
(4) Other related forms where specified in accompanying instruction (NRC-254); and
(5) A statement by the employer, prospective employer, or contractor identifying the job to be assigned to or assumed by the individual and the level of authorization needed, justified by appropriate reference to the licensee's security plan.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, NRC-U special nuclear material access authorizations must be renewed every five years from the date of issuance. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, NRC-R special nuclear material access authorizations must be renewed every ten years from the date of issuance. An application for renewal
must be submitted at least 120 days before the expiration of the five-year period for NRC-U and ten-year period for NRC-R, respectively, and must include:
(i) A statement by the licensee that at the time of application for renewal the individual's assigned or assumed job requires an NRC-U or an NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization, justified by appropriate reference to the licensee's security plan;
(ii) The Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP), SF-86—Questionnaire for National Security Positions;
(iii) Two completed standard fingerprint cards (FD-258); and
(iv) Other related forms specified in accompanying NRC instructions (NRC Form 254).
(2) An exception to the time for submission of NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization renewal applications and the paperwork required is provided for individuals who have a current and active DOE-Q access authorization and are subject to DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements. For these individuals, the submission to DOE of the SF-86 pursuant to DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements (generally every five years) will satisfy the NRC renewal submission and paperwork requirements even if less than five years has passed since the date of issuance or renewal of the NRC-U access authorization. Any NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization renewed in response to provisions of this paragraph will not be due for renewal until the date set by DOE for the next reinvestigation of the individual pursuant to DOE's Reinvestigation Program.
(3) An exception to the time for submission of NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization renewal applications and the paperwork required is provided for individuals who have a current and active DOE-L or DOE-Q access authorization and are subject to DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements. For these individuals, the submission to DOE of the SF-86 pursuant to DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements will satisfy the NRC renewal submission and paperwork requirements even if less than ten years have passed since the date of issuance or renewal of the NRC-R access authorization. Any NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization renewed pursuant to this paragraph will not be due for renewal until the date set by DOE for the next reinvestigation of the individual pursuant to DOE's Reinvestigation Program.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the period of time for the initial and each subsequent NRC-U renewal application to NRC may not exceed seven years.
(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the period of time for the initial and each subsequent NRC-R renewal application to NRC may not exceed twelve years. Any individual who is subject to the DOE Reinvestigation Program requirements but, for administrative or other reasons, does not submit reinvestigation forms to DOE within seven years of the previous submission, for a NRC-U renewal or twelve years of the previous submission for a NRC-R renewal, shall submit a renewal application to NRC using the forms prescribed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section before the expiration of the seven year period for NRC-U or twelve year period for NRC-R renewal.
(d) If at any time, due to new assignment or assumption of duties, a change in a special nuclear material access authorization level from NRC “R” to “U” is required, the individual shall apply for a change of level of special nuclear material access authorization. The application must include a description of the new duties to be assigned or assumed, justified by appropriate reference to the licensee's security plan.
(e) The Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) bills the NRC for the cost of each background investigation conducted in support of an application for special nuclear material access authorization (application). The combined cost of the DCSA investigation and the NRC's application processing overhead (NRC processing fee) are recovered through a material access authorization fee imposed on applicants for special nuclear material access authorization.
(1) Each application for a special nuclear material access authorization, renewal, or change in level must be accompanied by a remittance, payable to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which is equal to the NRC material access authorization fee. This fee must be determined using the following formula: the DCSA investigation billing rates on the day of NRC receipt of the application + the NRC processing fee = the NRC material access authorization fee. The NRC processing fee is determined by multiplying the DCSA investigation billing rate on the day of NRC receipt of the application by 90.2 percent (
i.e.,
DCSA rate × 90.2 percent).
(2) Updated DCSA investigation billing rates are published periodically in a Federal Investigations Notice (FIN) issued by the DCSA's Federal Investigative Services. Copies of the current DCSA investigation billing rates schedule can be obtained by contacting the NRC's Personnel Security Branch, Division of Facilities Security, Office of Administration by email to:
Licensee_ Access_ Authorization_ Fee.Resource@nrc.gov.
(3) The NRC's Material Access Authorization Program (MAAP) is considered reimbursable work representing services provided to an organization for which the NRC is entitled payment. The NRC is authorized to receive and retain fees from licensees for services performed. The NRC's Office of the Chief Financial Officer periodically reviews the fees charged for MAAP and makes recommendations on revising those charges to reflect costs incurred by the NRC in providing those services. The reviews are performed using cost analysis techniques to determine the direct and indirect costs. Based on this review, all MAAP requests for reciprocity will be charged a flat fee rate of $95.00 as referenced in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. This flat fee would be aligned with the level of effort that has recently been expended by DCSA to process reciprocity requests, and accounts for inflation as well as recovery of the appropriate cost for conducting this work. Copies of the current NRC material access authorization fee may be obtained by contacting the NRC's Personnel Security Branch, Division of Facilities and Security, Office of Administration by email to:
Licensee_ Access_ Authorization_ Fee.Resource@nrc.gov
. Any change in the NRC's access authorization fees will be applicable to each access authorization request received on or after the effective date of the DCSA's most recently published investigation billing rates schedule.
(4) Certain applications from individuals having current Federal access authorizations may be processed expeditiously and at a reduced cost because the Commission, at its discretion, may decide to accept the certification of access authorizations and investigative data from other Federal Government agencies that grant personnel access authorizations.
(i) Applications for reciprocity will be processed at the NRC flat fee rate of $95 per request as referenced in the following table:
The NRC application fee for an access authorization of type . . .
NRC fee rate
(A) NRC-R based on certification of comparable investigation
1
$95
(B) NRC-U based on certification of comparable investigation
2
95
1
If the NRC determines, based on its review of available data, that a Tier 3 investigation is necessary, the appropriate NRC-R fee will be assessed as shown in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section before the conduct of the investigation.
2
If the NRC determines, based on its review of available data, that a Tier 5 investigation is necessary, the appropriate NRC-U fee will be assessed as shown in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section before the conduct of the investigation.
(ii) Applicants shall, in cases where reciprocity is not acceptable and it is necessary to perform a background investigation, be charged the appropriate fee referenced in the following table. Applicants shall calculate the access authorization fee according to the stated formula (
i.e.,
DCSA rate × 90.2 percent).
The NRC application fee for an access authorization of type . . .
Is the sum of the current DCSA investigation billing rate charged for an investigation of type . . .
Plus the NRC's processing
fee (rounded to the nearest
dollar), which is equal to
the DCSA investigation
billing rate for the type of
investigation referenced
multiplied by . . .
(%)
(A) NRC-R initial
1
Tier 3 (T3) (Standard Service)
90.2
(B) NRC-R renewal
1
Tier 3 Reinvestigation (T3R) (Standard Service)
90.2
(C) NRC-U initial
Tier 5 (T5) (Standard Service)
90.2
(D) NRC-U initial
Tier 5 (T5) (Priority Handling)
90.2
(E) NRC-U renewal
1
Tier 5 Reinvestigation (T5R) (Standard Service)
90.2
(F) NRC-U renewal
1
Tier 5 Reinvestigation (T5R) (Priority Handling)
90.2
1
If the NRC determines, based on its review of available data, that a Tier 5 investigation is necessary, the appropriate NRC-U fee will be assessed before the conduct of the investigation.
(f)(1) Any Federal employee, employee of a contractor of a Federal agency, licensee, or other person visiting an affected facility for the purpose of conducting official business, who possesses an active NRC or DOE-Q access authorization or an equivalent Federal security clearance granted by another Federal agency (“Top Secret”) based on a comparable T5 background investigation may be permitted, in accordance with § 11.11, the same level of unescorted access that an NRC-U special nuclear material access authorization would afford.
(2) Any Federal employee, employee of a contractor of a Federal agency, licensee, or other person visiting an affected facility for the purpose of conducting official business, who possesses an active NRC or DOE-L access authorization or an equivalent security clearance granted by another Federal agency (“Secret”) based on a comparable or greater background investigation consisting of a national agency check with law and credit may be permitted, in accordance with § 11.11, the same level of unescorted access that an NRC-R special nuclear material access authorization would afford. An NRC or DOE-L access authorization or an equivalent security clearance (“Secret”), based on a background investigation or national agency check with credit granted or being processed by another Federal agency before January 1, 1998, is acceptable to meet this requirement.
[64 FR 15645, Apr. 1, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 62511, Nov. 5, 2003; 68 FR 65765, Nov. 21, 2003; 68 FR 58800, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 27410, May 16, 2007; 74 FR 62680, Dec. 1, 2009; 77 FR 26152, May 3, 2012; 77 FR 46257, Aug. 3, 2012; 80 FR 74978, Dec. 1, 2015; 86 FR 43401, Aug. 9, 2021; 87 FR 45240, July 28, 2022]
§ 11.16
Cancellation of request for special nuclear material access authorization.
When a request for an individual's access authorization is withdrawn or canceled, the licensee shall notify the Chief, Personnel Security Branch, NRC Division of Facilities and Security immediately, by telephone, so that the investigation may be discontinued. The caller shall provide the full name and date of birth of the individual, the date of request, and the type of access authorization originally requested (“U” or “R”). The licensee shall promptly submit written confirmation of the telephone notification to the Personnel Security Branch, NRC Division of Facilities and Security. A portion of the fee for the “U” special nuclear material access authorization may be refunded depending upon the status of the Tier 5 investigation at the time of withdrawal or cancellation.
[64 FR 15647, Apr. 1, 1999, as amended at 87 FR 45241, July 28, 2022]

# Criteria for Determining Eligibility for Access to, or Control Over, Special Nuclear Material
§ 11.21
Application of the criteria.
(a) The decision to grant or deny special nuclear material access authorization is a comprehensive, common-sense judgment, made after consideration of all the relevant information, favorable or unfavorable, that to grant or deny special nuclear material access authorization is or is not inimical to the common defense and security and is or is not clearly consistent with the national interest.
(b) To assist in making these determinations, on the basis of all the information in a particular case, there are set forth in § 10.11 of this chapter a number of specific types of derogatory information. These criteria are not exhaustive but contain the principal types of derogatory information which in the opinion of the Commission create a question as to the individual's eligibility for special nuclear material access authorization. These criteria are subject to continuing review and may be revised from time to time as experience and circumstances may make desirable.
(c) When the reports of an investigation of an individual contain information reasonably falling within one or more of the classes of derogatory information listed in § 10.11, it creates a question as to the individual's eligibility for special nuclear material access authorization. In these cases, the application of the criteria must be made in light of and with specific regard to whether the existence of the information supports a reasonable belief that the granting of a special nuclear material access authorization would be inimical to the common defense and security. The Director, Division of Facilities and Security, may authorize the granting of a special nuclear material access authorization on the basis of the information in the case or may authorize the conduct of an interview with the individual and, on the basis of the interview and other investigation as the Director deems appropriate, may authorize the granting of a special nuclear material access authorization. Otherwise, a question concerning the eligibility of an individual for a special nuclear material access authorization must be resolved in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§ 10.20 through 10.38 of this chapter.
(d) In resolving a question concerning the eligibility or continued eligibility of an individual for a special nuclear material access authorization by action of the Hearing Examiner or a Personnel Security Review Panel,
3
the following principle shall be applied by the Examiner and the Personnel Security Review Panel: Where there are sufficient grounds to establish a reasonable belief as to the truth of the information regarded as substantially derogatory and when the existence of this information supports a reasonable belief that granting access would be inimical to the common defense and security, this will be the basis for a recommendation for denying or revoking special nuclear material access authorization if not satisfactorily rebutted by the individual or shown to be mitigated by circumstance.
3
The functions of the Hearing Examiner and the Personnel Security Review Panel are described in part 10 of this chapter.
[45 FR 76970, Nov. 21, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 38683, Sept. 2, 1982; 64 FR 15647, Apr. 1, 1999]

# Violations
§ 11.30
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[57 FR 55070, Nov. 24, 1992]
§ 11.32
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all regulations in part 11 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 11 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 11.1, 11.3, 11.5, 11.7, 11.8, 11.9, 11.16, 11.21, 11.30, and 11.32.
[57 FR 55070, Nov. 24, 1992]
Pt. 12

# PART 12—IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE ACT IN AGENCY PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
12.101
Purpose.
12.102
When the EAJA applies.
12.103
Proceedings covered.
12.104
Eligibility of applicants.
12.105
Standards for awards.
12.106
Allowable fees and expenses.
12.107
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
12.108
Awards against other agencies.
12.109
Decisionmaking authority.

# Subpart B—Information Required From Applicants
12.201
Contents of application.
12.202
Net worth exhibit.
12.203
Documentation of fees and expenses.
12.204
When an application may be filed.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
12.301
Filing and service of documents.
12.302
Answer to application.
12.303
Reply.
12.304
Comments by other parties.
12.305
Settlement.
12.306
Further proceedings.
12.307
Decision.
12.308
Agency review.
12.309
Judicial review.
12.310
Payment of award.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 504(c)(1).

# Source:
59 FR 23121, May 5, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 12.101
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to state the regulatory requirements for award of attorney fees to eligible individuals and entities in certain administrative proceedings before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, in implementation of the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504 (EAJA), which provides for the award of attorney fees and other expenses to parties to “adversary adjudications”, as defined in 5 U.S.C. 504(b)(1)(C). In general, an “adversary adjudication” is an adjudication that is required by statute to be determined on the record after opportunity for hearing before an agency of the United States and in which the position of the agency, or any component of the agency, is presented by an attorney or other representative who enters an appearance and participates in the proceeding. However, some agency adjudications are expressly excluded from coverage by 5 U.S.C. 504 (e.g., an adjudication for the purpose of granting or renewing a license) even though they fall within this general definition, and certain appeals before an agency board of contract appeals and Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act hearings conducted under 31 U.S.C. ch. 38 are expressly covered.
An eligible party may receive an award in an adversary adjudication when the party prevails over the Commission, unless the Commission's position was substantially justified or special circumstances make an award unjust. The regulations in this part describe the parties eligible for awards
and the proceedings that are covered. They also explain how to apply for awards, and the procedures and standards that the Commission will use to make them.
§ 12.102
When the EAJA applies.
The EAJA applies to any covered adversary adjudication pending or commenced before the Commission on or after August 5, 1985.
§ 12.103
Proceedings covered.
(a) The EAJA applies to the following proceedings:
(1) Hearings under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act (31 U.S.C. 3801-12);
(2) Any appeal of a decision made pursuant to section 6 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 605) before an agency board of contract appeals as provided in section 8 of that Act (41 U.S.C. 607); and
(3) Adversary adjudications conducted by the Commission pursuant to any other statutory provision that requires a proceeding before the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to be so conducted as to fall within the meaning of “adversary adjudication” under 5 U.S.C. 504(b)(1)(C).
(b) The Commission's failure to identify a type of proceeding as an adversary adjudication shall not preclude the filing of an application by a party who believes the proceeding is covered by the EAJA. Whether the proceeding is covered will then be an issue for resolution in proceedings on the application.
(c) If a proceeding includes both matters covered by the EAJA and matters specifically excluded from coverage, any award made will include only fees and expenses related to covered issues.
§ 12.104
Eligibility of applicants.
(a) To be eligible for an award of attorney fees and other expenses under the EAJA, the applicant must be a party to the adversary adjudication for which it seeks an award. The term “party” is defined in 5 U.S.C. 551(3). The applicant must show that it meets all conditions of eligibility set out in this subpart and in subpart B.
(b) The types of eligible applicants are as follows:
(1) An individual with a net worth of not more than $2 million;
(2) The sole owner of an unincorporated business who has a net worth of not more than $7 million, including both personal and business interests, and not more than 500 employees;
(3) A charitable or other tax-exempt organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with not more than 500 employees;
(4) A cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)) with not more than 500 employees; and
(5) Any other partnership, corporation, association, unit of local government, or organization with a net worth of not more than $7 million and not more than 500 employees.
(c) For the purpose of eligibility, the net worth and number of employees of an applicant shall be determined as of the date the proceeding was initiated.
(d) An applicant who owns an unincorporated business will be considered as an “individual” rather than a “sole owner of an unincorporated business” if the issues on which the applicant prevails are related primarily to personal interests rather than to business interests.
(e) The employees of an applicant include all persons who regularly perform services for remuneration for the applicant, under the applicant's direction and control. Part-time employees shall be included on a proportional basis.
(f) The net worth and number of employees of the applicant and all of its affiliates shall be aggregated to determine eligibility. Any individual, corporation, or other entity that directly or indirectly controls or owns a majority of the voting shares or other interests of the applicant, or any corporation or other entity of which the applicant directly or indirectly owns or controls a majority of the voting shares or other interest, will be considered an affiliate for purposes of this part, unless the adjudicative officer determines that such treatment would be unjust and contrary to the purposes of the Act
in light of the actual relationship between the affiliated entities. In addition, the adjudicative officer may determine that financial relationships of the applicant other than those described in this paragraph constitute special circumstances that would make an award unjust.
(g) An applicant that participates in a proceeding primarily on behalf of one or more other persons or entities that would be ineligible is not itself eligible for an award.
§ 12.105
Standards for awards.
(a) A prevailing applicant may receive an award for fees and expenses incurred in connection with a proceeding or a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, unless the position of the Commission over which the applicant has prevailed was substantially justified. The position of the Commission includes, in addition to the position taken by the Commission in the adversary adjudication, the action or failure to act by the Commission upon which the adversary adjudication is based. The burden of proof that an award should not be made to a prevailing applicant because the Commission's position was substantially justified is on the Commission counsel.
(b) An award will be reduced or denied if the applicant has unduly or unreasonably protracted the proceeding or if special circumstances make the award sought unjust.
§ 12.106
Allowable fees and expenses.
(a) Awards will be based on rates customarily charged by persons engaged in the business of acting as attorneys, agents, and expert witnesses, even if the services were made available without charge or at reduced rate to the applicant.
(b) No award for the fee of an attorney or agent under this part may exceed $75.00 per hour. No award to compensate an expert witness may exceed the highest rate at which the Commission pays expert witnesses. However, an award may also include the reasonable expenses of the attorney, agent, or witness as a separate item, if the attorney, agent, or witness ordinarily charges clients separately for these expenses.
(c) In determining the reasonableness of the fee sought for an attorney, agent, or expert witness, the adjudicative officer shall consider the following:
(1) If the attorney, agent, or witness is in private practice, his or her customary fees for similar services, or, if an employee of the applicant, the fully allocated costs of the services;
(2) The prevailing rate for similar services in the community in which the attorney, agent, or witness ordinarily performs services;
(3) The time actually spent in the representation of the applicant;
(4) The time reasonably spent in light of the difficulty or complexity of the issues in the proceeding; and
(5) Other factors that bear on the value of the services provided.
(d) The reasonable cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project, or similar matter prepared on behalf of a party may be awarded, to the extent that the charge for the services does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar services, and the study or other matter was necessary for preparation of applicant's case.
§ 12.107
Rulemaking on maximum rates for attorney fees.
(a) If warranted by an increase in the cost of living or by special circumstances (such as limited availability of attorneys qualified to handle certain types of proceedings), the Commission may adopt regulations providing that attorney fees may be awarded at a rate higher than $75 per hour in some, or all of the types of proceedings covered by this part. The Commission will conduct any rulemaking proceedings for this purpose under the informal rulemaking procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act.
(b) Any person may file with the Commission a petition for rulemaking to increase the maximum rate for attorney fees, in accordance with the requirements of 10 CFR 2.802. The petition should identify the rate the petitioner believes the Commission should establish and the types of proceedings in which the rate should be used. It
should also explain fully the reasons why the higher rate is warranted. Within 90 days after the petition is filed, the Commission will determine whether it will initiate a rulemaking proceeding, deny the petition, or take other appropriate action on the petition. The Commission will act on the petition in accordance with 10 CFR 2.803.
§ 12.108
Awards against other agencies.
If an applicant is entitled to an award because it prevails over another agency of the United States that participates in a proceeding before the Commission and takes a position that is not substantially justified, the award or an appropriate portion of the award shall be made against that agency.
§ 12.109
Decisionmaking authority.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission in a particular proceeding, each application under this part shall be assigned for decision to the official or decisionmaking body that entered the decision in the adversary adjudication. That official or decisionmaking body is referred to in this part as the “adjudicative officer.”

# Subpart B—Information Required From Applicants
§ 12.201
Contents of application.
(a) An application for an award of fees and expenses under the EAJA shall identify the applicant and the proceeding for which an award is sought. The application shall show that the applicant has prevailed and identify the position of the Commission or other agency that the applicant alleges was not substantially justified. Unless the applicant is an individual, the application shall also state the number of employees of the applicant and describe briefly the type and purpose of its organization or business.
(b) The application shall also include a statement that the applicant's net worth does not exceed $2 million (if an individual) or $7 million (for all other applicants, including their affiliates). However, an applicant may omit this statement if:
(1) The applicant attaches a copy of a ruling by the Internal Revenue Service that it qualifies as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) or, in the case of a tax-exempt organization not required to obtain a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service on its exempt status, a statement that describes the basis for the applicant's belief that it qualifies under this section; or
(2) The applicant states that it is a cooperative association as defined in section 15(a) of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j(a)).
(c) The application shall state the amount of fees and expenses for which an award is sought.
(d) The application may also include any other matters that the applicant wishes the Commission to consider in determining whether, and in what amount, an award should be made.
(e) The application shall be signed by the applicant or an authorized officer or attorney of the applicant. It shall also contain or be accompanied by a written verification under oath or under penalty of perjury that the information provided in the application is true and correct.
§ 12.202
Net worth exhibit.
(a) Each applicant, except a qualified tax-exempt organization or cooperative association must provide with its application a detailed exhibit showing the net worth of the applicant and any affiliates (as defined in § 12.104(f) of this part) when the proceeding was initiated. The exhibit may be in any form convenient to the applicant that provides full disclosure of the applicant's and its affiliates' assets and liabilities and is sufficient to determine whether the applicant qualifies under the standards in this part. The adjudicative officer may require an applicant to file additional information to determine its eligibility for an award.
(b) Ordinarily, the net worth exhibit will be included in the public record of the proceeding. However, an applicant that objects to public disclosure of information in any portion of the exhibit and believes there are legal grounds for withholding it from disclosure may
submit that portion of the exhibit directly to the adjudicative officer in a sealed envelope labeled “Confidential Financial Information,” accompanied by a motion to withhold the information from public disclosure. The motion shall describe the information sought to be withheld and explain, in detail, why it falls within one or more of the specific exemptions from mandatory disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(1)-(9), why public disclosure of the information would adversely affect the applicant, and why disclosure is not required in the public interest. The material in question shall be served on counsel representing the agency against which the applicant seeks an award, but need not be served on any other party to the proceeding. If the adjudicative officer finds that the information should not be withheld from disclosure, it shall be placed in the public record of the proceeding. Otherwise, any request to inspect or copy the exhibit shall be disposed of in accordance with the Commission's established procedures under the Freedom of Information Act, 10 CFR part 9, subpart A.
§ 12.203
Documentation of fees and expenses.
The application shall be accompanied by full documentation of the fees and expenses, including the cost of any study, analysis, engineering report, test, project, or similar matter for which an award is sought. A separate itemized statement shall be submitted for each professional firm or individual whose services are covered by the application, showing the hours spent in connection with the proceeding by each individual, a description of the specific services performed, the rates at which each fee has been computed, any expenses for which reimbursement is sought, the total amount claimed, and the total amount paid or payable by the applicant or by any other person or entity for the services provided. The adjudicative officer may require the applicant to provide vouchers, receipts, logs, or other substantiation for any fees or expenses claimed, pursuant to § 12.306 of this part.
§ 12.204
When an application may be filed.
(a) An application may be filed whenever the applicant has prevailed in the proceeding or in a significant and discrete substantive portion of the proceeding, but in no case later than 30 days after the date on which a decision or order disposing of the merits of the proceeding or any other complete resolution of the proceeding, such as a settlement or voluntary dismissal, becomes final and unappealable, both within the NRC and to the courts.
(b) If after the filing of an application for an award, review or reconsideration is sought or taken of a decision as to which an applicant believes it has prevailed, proceedings for the award of fees shall be stayed pending final disposition of the underlying controversy. When the United States appeals the underlying merits of an adversary adjudication to a court, no decision on an application for fees and other expenses in connection with that adversary adjudication shall be made until a final and unreviewable decision is rendered by the court on the appeal or until the underlying merits of the case have been finally determined pursuant to the appeal.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Considering Applications
§ 12.301
Filing and service of documents.
Any application for an award or other pleading or document related to an application shall be filed and served on all parties to the proceeding in the same manner as other pleadings in the proceeding, except as provided in § 12.202(b) for confidential financial information.
§ 12.302
Answer to application.
(a) Within 30 days after service of an application, counsel representing the NRC against which an award is sought may file an answer to the application. Unless the NRC counsel requests an extension of time for filing or files a statement of intent to negotiate under paragraph (b) of this section, failure to file an answer within the 30-day period
may be treated as a consent to the award requested.
(b) If the NRC counsel and the applicant believe that the issues in the fee application can be settled, they may jointly file a statement of their intent to negotiate a settlement. The filing of this statement shall extend the time for filing an answer for an additional 30 days, and further extensions may be granted by the adjudicative officer upon request by the NRC counsel and the applicant.
(c) The answer shall explain in detail any objections to the award requested and identify the facts relied on in support of the NRC counsel's position. If the answer is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the NRC counsel shall include with the answer either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 12.306.
§ 12.303
Reply.
Within 15 days after service of an answer, the applicant may file a reply. If the reply is based on any alleged facts not already in the record of the proceeding, the applicant shall include with the reply either supporting affidavits or a request for further proceedings under § 12.306.
§ 12.304
Comments by other parties.
Any party to a proceeding other than the applicant and the NRC counsel may file comments on an application within 30 days after it is served, or on an answer within 15 days after it is served. A commenting party may not participate further in proceedings on the application unless the adjudicative officer determines that the public interest requires participation in order to permit full exploration of matters raised in the comments.
§ 12.305
Settlement.
The applicant and the NRC counsel may agree on a proposed settlement of the award before final action on the application, either in connection with a settlement of the underlying proceeding, or after the underlying proceeding has been concluded, in accordance with the NRC's standard settlement procedure. If a prevailing party and the NRC's counsel agree on a proposed settlement of an award before an application has been filed, the application shall be filed with the proposed settlement.
§ 12.306
Further proceedings.
(a) Ordinarily, the determination of an award will be made on the basis of the written record. However, on request of either the applicant or the NRC counsel, or on the adjudicative officer's own initiative, the adjudicative officer may order further proceedings, such as an informal conference, oral argument, additional written submissions or, as to issues other than substantial justification (such as the applicant's eligibility or substantiation of fees and expenses), pertinent discovery or an evidentiary hearing. Further proceedings shall be held only when necessary for full and fair resolution of the issues arising from the application, and shall be conducted as promptly as possible. Whether or not the position of the agency was substantially justified shall be determined on the basis of the administrative record, as a whole, which is made in the adversary adjudication for which fees and other expenses are sought.
(b) A request that the adjudicative officer order further proceedings under this section shall specifically identify the information sought or the disputed issues and shall explain why the additional proceedings are necessary to resolve the issues.
§ 12.307
Decision.
(a) The adjudicative officer shall issue an initial decision on the application within 90 days after completion of proceedings on the application. If the adjudicative officer fails to issue an initial decision within 90 days, he or she shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
(b) The initial decision shall include written findings and conclusions on the applicant's eligibility and status as a prevailing party, and an explanation of the reasons for any difference between the amount requested and the amount awarded. The decision shall also include, if at issue, findings on whether the NRC's position was substantially justified, whether the applicant unduly
protracted the proceedings, or whether special circumstances make an award unjust. If the applicant has sought an award against more than one agency, the decision shall allocate responsibility for payment of any award made among the agencies, and shall explain the reasons for the allocation made.
§ 12.308
Agency review.
(a) Either the applicant or the NRC counsel may seek review of the initial decision on the fee application, or the Commission may decide to review the decision on its own initiative, in accordance with the Commission's review procedures set out in 10 CFR 2.341. The filing of a petition for review is mandatory for a party to exhaust its administrative remedies before seeking judicial review. If neither the applicant nor NRC counsel seeks review and the Commission does not take review on its own initiative, the initial decision on the application shall become a final decision of the NRC 120 days after it is issued.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other part of the Commission's regulations, the initial decision shall be inoperative (
i.e.
, the decision shall not be final and any award made shall not be paid) until the later of—
(1) The expiration of the 120 day period provided in paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) If within the 120 day period provided in paragraph (a) of this section the Commission elects to review the decision, the Commission's issuance of a final decision on review of the initial decision.
(c) Whether to review a decision on its own motion is a matter within the discretion of the Commission. If review is taken, the Commission will issue a final decision on the application or remand the application to the adjudicative officer for further proceedings.
[59 FR 23121, May 5, 1994, as amended at 77 FR 46599, Aug. 3, 2012]
§ 12.309
Judicial review.
Judicial review of final agency decisions on awards may be sought as provided in 5 U.S.C. 504(c)(2).
§ 12.310
Payment of award.
An applicant seeking payment of an award shall submit to the appropriate official of the paying agency a copy of the Commission's final decision granting the award, accompanied by a certification that the applicant will not seek review of the decision in the United States courts. Where the award is granted against the Commission, the applicant shall make the submission to the Director, Division of Accounting and Finance, Office of the Controller, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. The NRC will pay the amount awarded to the applicant within 60 days.
Pt. 13

# PART 13—PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES
Sec.
13.1
Basis and purpose.
13.2
Definitions.
13.3
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
13.4
Investigation.
13.5
Review by the reviewing official.
13.6
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
13.7
Complaint.
13.8
Service of complaint.
13.9
Answer.
13.10
Default upon failure to file an answer.
13.11
Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ.
13.12
Notice of hearing.
13.13
Parties to the hearing.
13.14
Separation of functions.
13.15
Ex parte contacts.
13.16
Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.
13.17
Rights of parties.
13.18
Authority of the ALJ.
13.19
Prehearing conferences.
13.20
Disclosure of documents.
13.21
Discovery.
13.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.
13.23
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
13.24
Protective order.
13.25
Fees.
13.26
Filing and service of papers.
13.27
Computation of time.
13.28
Motions.
13.29
Sanctions.
13.30
The hearing and burden of proof.
13.31
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
13.32
Location of hearing.
13.33
Witnesses.
13.34
Evidence.
13.35
The record.
13.36
Post-hearing briefs.
13.37
Initial decision.
13.38
Reconsideration of initial decision.
13.39
Appeal to authority head.
13.40
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
13.41
Stay pending appeal.
13.42
Judicial review.
13.43
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
13.44
Right to administrative offset.
13.45
Deposit in Treasury of United States.
13.46
Compromise or settlement.
13.47
Limitations.

# Authority:
31 U.S.C. 3801 through 3812; 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.
Section 13.3 also issued under 28 U.S.C. 2461 note.
Section 13.13 also issued under 31 U.S.C. 3730.

# Source:
56 FR 47135, Sept. 18, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 13.1
Basis and purpose.
(a)
Basis.
This part implements the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, Public Law No. 99-509, §§ 6101-6104, 100 Stat. 1874 (October 21, 1986) (31 U.S.C. 3801-3812). 31 U.S.C. 3809 requires each authority head to promulgate regulations necessary to implement the provisions of that Act.
(b)
Purpose.
This part (1) establishes administrative procedures for imposing civil penalties and assessments against persons who make, submit, or present, or cause to be made, submitted, or presented, false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or written statements to authorities or to their agents, and (2) specifies the hearing and appeal rights of persons subject to allegations of liability for such penalties and assessments.
§ 13.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
ALJ
means an Administrative Law Judge in the authority appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the authority pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.
Authority
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Authority head
means the Commission of five members or a quorum thereof sitting as a body, as provided by section 201 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1242).
Benefit
means, in the context of “statement”, anything of value, including but not limited to any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee.
Claim
means any request, demand, or submission—
(a) Made to the authority for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits);
(b) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the authority or to a party to a contract with the authority—
(1) For property or services if the United States—
(i) Provided such property or services;
(ii) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of such property or services; or
(iii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for the purchase of such property or services; or
(2) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States—
(i) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or
(ii) Will reimburse such recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on such request or demand; or
(c) Made to the authority which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.
Complaint
means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 13.7.
Defendant
means any person alleged in a complaint under § 13.7 to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 13.3.
Digital ID certificate
means a file stored on a participant's computer that contains the participant's name, e-mail address, and participant's digital signature, proves the participant's identity when filing documents and serving participants electronically through the E-Filing system, and contains public keys, which allow for the encryption and decryption of documents so that the documents can be securely transferred over the Internet.
Electronic acknowledgment
means a communication transmitted electronically from the E-Filing system to the submitter confirming receipt of electronic filing and service.
Electronic Hearing Docket
means the publicly available Web site which houses a visual presentation of the docket and a link to its files.
E-Filing System
means an electronic system that receives, stores, and distributes documents filed in proceedings for which an electronic hearing docket has been established.
Government
means the United States Government.
Guidance for Electronic Submissions to the NRC
means the document issued by the Commission that sets forth the transmission methods and formatting standards for filing and service under E-Filing. The document can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov.
Individual
means a natural person.
Initial decision
means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 13.10 or § 13.37, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.
Investigating official
means the Inspector General of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, Office of the Inspector General.
Knows or has reason to know
means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement—
(a) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(b) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or
(c) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.
Makes,
wherever it appears, shall include the terms presents, submits, and causes to be made, presented, or submitted. As the context requires,
making
or
made
shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.
Optical Storage Media
means any physical computer component that meets E-Filing Guidance standards for storing, saving, and accessing electronic documents.
Participant
means an individual or organization that has petitioned to intervene in a proceeding or requested a hearing but that has not yet been granted party status by an Atomic Safety and Licensing Board or other presiding officer. Participant also means a party to a proceeding and any interested State, local governmental body, or affected Federally-recognized Indian Tribe that seeks to participate in a proceeding in accordance with § 2.315(c). For the purpose of service of documents, the NRC staff is considered a participant even if not participating as a party.
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization and includes the plural of that term.
Representative
means any person designated by a party in writing.
Reviewing official
means the General Counsel of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or his or her designee who is—
(a) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official;
(b) Not employed in the organizational unit of the authority in which the investigating official is employed; and
(c) Serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.
Statement
means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made—
(a) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or
(b) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for)—
(1) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with, or
(2) A grant, loan, or benefit from,
(i) The authority, or
(ii) Any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party, if the United States government provides any portion of the money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit, or if the Government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the
money or property under such contract or for such grant, loan, or benefit.
[56 FR 47135, Sept. 18, 1991; 56 FR 49945, Oct. 2, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 40427, July 29, 1997; 65 FR 59272, Oct. 4, 2000; 71 FR 15007, Mar. 27, 2006; 72 FR 49152, Aug. 28, 2007; 72 FR 64529, Nov. 16, 2007]
§ 13.3
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
(a)
Claims.
(1) Any person who makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know—
(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(ii) Includes or is supported by any written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(iii) Includes or is supported by any written statement that—
(A) Omits a material fact;
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and
(C) Is a statement in which the person making such statement has a duty to include such material fact; or
(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $13,946 for each such claim.
(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.
(3) A claim shall be considered made to the authority, recipient, or party when such claim is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the authority, recipient, or party.
(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether such property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid.
(5) If the Government has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of such claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages sustained by the Government because of such claim.
(b)
Statements.
(1) Any person who makes a written statement that—
(i) The person knows or has reason to know—
(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that the person making the statement has a duty to include in such statement; and
(ii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $13,946 for each such statement.
(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement.
(3) A statement shall be considered made to the authority when such statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the authority.
(c) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.
(d) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each such person may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section.
(e) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any such person or jointly and severally against any combination of such persons.
[56 FR 47135, Sept. 18, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 53555, Oct. 11, 1996; 62 FR 59275, Nov. 3, 1997; 65 FR 59273, Oct. 4, 2000; 71 FR 15007, Mar. 27, 2006; 73 FR 54673, Sept. 23, 2008; 81 FR 43021, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 8135, Jan. 24, 2017; 83 FR 1517, Jan. 12, 2018; 84 FR 2435, Feb. 7, 2019; 85 FR 2283, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 3747, Jan. 15, 2021; 87 FR 2312, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2190, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 2114, Jan. 12, 2024]
§ 13.4
Investigation.
(a) If an investigating official concludes that a subpoena pursuant to the authority conferred by 31 U.S.C. 3804(a) is warranted—
(1) The subpoena so issued shall notify the person to whom it is addressed of the authority under which the subpoena is issued and shall identify the records or documents sought;
(2) The investigating official may designate a person to act on his or her behalf to receive the documents sought; and
(3) The person receiving such subpoena shall be required to tender to the investigating official or the person designated to receive the documents a certification that the documents sought have been produced, or that such documents are not available and the reasons therefor, or that such documents, suitably identified, have been withheld based upon the assertion of an identified privilege.
(b) If the investigating official concludes that an action under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act may be warranted, the investigating official shall submit a report containing the findings and conclusions of such investigation to the reviewing official. To the extent possible, before initiating an investigation or submitting a report involving a licensee false statement to the reviewing official, the investigating official shall consult with the Executive Director for Operations to ascertain whether any other agency action is under consideration, pending, or may be taken with regard to the licensee, and to allow for coordination between any action under this part and other enforcement action.
(c) Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit an investigating official's discretion to refer allegations directly to the Department of Justice for suit under the False Claims Act or other civil relief, or to refer the matter to the Executive Director for Operations for enforcement action under the Atomic Energy Act, or to defer initiating an investigation or postpone a report or referral to the reviewing official to avoid interference with other enforcement action by the Commission or with a criminal investigation or prosecution.
(d) Nothing in this section modifies any responsibility of an investigating official to report violations of criminal law to the Attorney General.
§ 13.5
Review by the reviewing official.
(a) If, based on the report of the investigating official under § 13.4(b), the reviewing official determines that there is adequate evidence to believe that a person is liable under § 13.3 of this part, the reviewing official shall transmit to the Attorney General a written notice of the reviewing official's intention to issue a complaint under § 13.7.
(b) Such notice shall include—
(1) A statement of the reviewing official's reasons for issuing a complaint;
(2) A statement specifying the evidence that supports the allegations of liability;
(3) A description of the claims or statements upon which the allegations of liability are based;
(4) An estimate of the amount of money or the value of property, services, or other benefits requested or demanded in violation of § 13.3 of this part;
(5) A statement of any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements known by the reviewing official or the investigating official; and
(6) A statement that there is a reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments.
§ 13.6
Prerequisities for issuing a complaint.
(a) The reviewing official may issue a complaint under § 13.7 only if—
(1) The Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in a written statement described in 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), and
(2) In the case of allegations of liability under § 13.3(a) with respect to a claim, the reviewing official determines that, with respect to such claim or a group of related claims submitted at the same time such claim is submitted (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section), the amount of money or the value of property or services demanded or requested in violation of § 13.3(a) does not exceed $150,000.
(b) For the purposes of this section, a related group of claims submitted at the same time shall include only those claims arising from the same transaction (e.g., grant, loan, application, or contract) that are submitted simultaneously as part of a single request, demand, or submission.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the reviewing official's authority to join in a single complaint against a person claims that are unrelated or were not submitted simultaneously, regardless of the amount of money, or the value of property or services, demanded or requested.
[56 FR 47135, Sept. 18, 1991; 56 FR 49945, Oct. 2, 1991]
§ 13.7
Complaint.
(a) On or after the date the Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), the reviewing official may serve a complaint on the defendant, as provided in § 13.8.
(b) The complaint shall state—
(1) The allegations of liability against the defendant, including the statutory basis for liability, an identification of the claims or statements that are the basis for the alleged liability, and the reasons why liability allegedly arises from such claims or statements;
(2) The maximum amount of penalties and assessments for which the defendant may be held liable;
(3) Instructions for filing an answer to request a hearing, including a specific statement of the defendant's right to request a hearing by filing an answer and to be represented by a representative; and
(4) That failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint will result in the imposition of the maximum amount of penalties and assessments without right to appeal, as provided in § 13.10.
(c) At the same time the reviewing official serves the complaint, he or she shall serve the defendant with a copy of these regulations.
§ 13.8
Service of complaint.
(a) Service of a complaint must be made by certified or registered mail or by delivery in any manner authorized by Rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Service is complete upon receipt.
(b) Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom the complaint was served, and the manner and date of service, may be made by—
(1) Affidavit of the individual serving the complaint by delivery;
(2) A United States Postal Service return receipt card acknowledging receipt; or
(3) Written acknowledgment of receipt by the defendant or his or her representative.
[56 FR 47135, Sept. 18, 1991, as amended at 71 FR 15007, Mar. 27, 2006]
§ 13.9
Answer.
(a) The defendant may request a hearing by filing an answer with the reviewing official within thirty (30) days of service of the complaint. Service of an answer shall be made by electronically delivering a copy to the reviewing official in accordance with § 13.26. An answer shall be deemed a request for hearing.
(b) In the answer, the defendant—
(1) Shall admit or deny each of the allegations of liability made in the complaint;
(2) Shall state any defense on which the defendant intends to rely;
(3) May state any reasons why the defendant contends that the penalties and assessments should be less than the statutory maximum; and
(4) Shall state the name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized by the defendant to act as defendant's representative, if any.
(c) If the defendant is unable to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section within the time provided, the defendant may, before the expiration of 30 days from service of the complaint, file with the reviewing official a general answer denying liability and requesting a hearing, and a request for an extension of time within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The reviewing official shall file promptly with the ALJ the complaint, the general answer denying liability, and the request for an extension of time as provided in § 13.11. For good cause shown, the ALJ may
grant the defendant up to 30 additional days within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
[56 FR 47135, Sept. 18, 1991; 56 FR 64839, Dec. 12, 1991; 72 FR 49152, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 13.10
Default upon failure to file an answer.
(a) If the defendant does not file an answer within the time prescribed in § 13.9(a), the reviewing official may refer the complaint to the ALJ.
(b) Upon the referral of the complaint, the ALJ shall promptly serve on defendant in the manner prescribed in § 13.8 a notice that an initial decision will be issued under this section.
(c) The ALJ shall assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true, and, if such facts establish liability under § 13.3, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision imposing the maximum amount of penalties and assessments allowed under the statute.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to file a timely answer, the defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed under paragraph (c) of this section and the initial decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.
(e) If, before such an initial decision becomes final, the defendant files a motion with the ALJ seeking to reopen on the grounds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the defendant from filing an answer, the initial decision shall be stayed pending the ALJ's decision on the motion.
(f) If, on such motion, the defendant can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances excusing the failure to file a timely answer, the ALJ shall withdraw the initial decision in paragraph (c) of this section if such a decision has been issued, and shall grant the defendant an opportunity to answer the complaint.
(g) A decision of the ALJ denying a defendant's motion under paragraph (e) of this section is not subject to reconsideration under § 13.38.
(h) The defendant may appeal to the authority head the decision denying a motion to reopen by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head within 15 days after the ALJ denies the motion. The timely filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the initial decision until the authority head decides the issue.
(i) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head.
(j) The authority head shall decide expeditiously whether extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer based solely on the record before the ALJ.
(k) If the authority head decides that extraordinary circumstances excused the defendant's failure to file a timely answer, the authority head shall remand the case to the ALJ with instructions to grant the defendant an opportunity to answer.
(l) If the authority head decides that the defendant's failure to file a timely answer is not excused, the authority head shall reinstate the initial decision of the ALJ, which shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the authority head issues such decision.
§ 13.11
Referral of complaint and answer to the ALJ.
Upon receipt of an answer, the reviewing official shall file the complaint and answer with the ALJ.
§ 13.12
Notice of hearing.
(a) When the ALJ receives the complaint and answer, the ALJ shall promptly serve a notice of hearing upon the defendant in the manner prescribed by § 13.8. At the same time, the ALJ shall send a copy of such notice to the representative of the authority.
(b) Such notice shall include—
(1) The tentative time and place, and the nature of the hearing;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The matters of fact and law to be asserted;
(4) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the authority and of the defendant, if any; and
(6) Such other matters as the ALJ deems appropriate.
§ 13.13
Parties to the hearing.
(a) The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and the authority.
(b) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3730(c)(5), a private plaintiff under the False Claims Act may participate in these proceedings to the extent authorized by the provisions of that Act.
§ 13.14
Separation of functions.
(a) The investigating official, the reviewing official, and any employee or agent of the authority who takes part in investigating, preparing, or presenting a particular case may not, in such case or a factually related case—
(1) Participate in the hearing as the ALJ;
(2) Participate or advise in the initial decision or the review of the initial decision by the authority head, except as a witness or a representative in public proceedings; or
(3) Make the collection of penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(b) The ALJ shall not be responsible to, or subject to the supervision or direction of, the investigating official or the reviewing official.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the representative for the Government may be employed anywhere in the authority, including in the offices of either the investigating official or the reviewing official.
[56 FR 47135, Sept. 18, 1991; 56 FR 64839, Dec. 12, 1991]
§ 13.15
Ex parte contacts.
No party or person (except employees of the ALJ's office) shall communicate in any way with the ALJ on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
§ 13.16
Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.
(a) A reviewing official or ALJ in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
(b) A party may file with the ALJ a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or an ALJ. Such motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.
(c) Such motion and affidavit shall be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or such objections, shall be deemed waived.
(d) Such affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.
(e) Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the ALJ shall proceed no further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)(1) If the ALJ determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.
(2) If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the case shall be reassigned promptly to another ALJ.
(3) If the ALJ denies a motion to disqualify, the authority head may determine the matter only as part of its review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.
§ 13.17
Rights of parties.
Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may—
(a) Be accompanied, represented, and advised by a representative;
(b) Participate in any conference held by the ALJ;
(c) Conduct discovery;
(d) Agree to stipulation of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(e) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing;
(f) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(g) Present oral arguments at the hearing as permitted by the ALJ; and
(h) Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing.
§ 13.18
Authority of the ALJ.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The ALJ has the authority to—
(1) Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(3) Hold conferences to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at depositions or at hearings;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and timing of discovery;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives and parties;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(11) Upon motion of a party, take official notice of facts;
(12) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
(13) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone; and
(14) Exercise such other authority as is necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the ALJ under this part.
(c) The ALJ does not have the authority to find Federal statutes or regulations invalid.
§ 13.19
Prehearing conferences.
(a) The ALJ may schedule prehearing conferences as appropriate.
(b) Upon the motion of any party, the ALJ shall schedule at least one prehearing conference at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
(c) The ALJ may use prehearing conferences to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations and admissions of fact or as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
(4) Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
(5) Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at an oral hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objection of other parties) and written argument;
(6) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(7) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(8) Discovery;
(9) The time and place for the hearing; and
(10) Such other matters as may tend to expedite the fair and just disposition of the proceedings.
(d) The ALJ may issue an order containing all matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the ALJ at a prehearing conference.
§ 13.20
Disclosure of documents.
(a) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may review any relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint and upon which the findings and conclusions of the investigating official under § 13.4(b) are based, unless such documents are subject to a privilege under Federal law. Upon payment of fees for duplication, the defendant may obtain copies of such documents.
(b) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant also may obtain a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint, even if it is contained in a document that would otherwise be privileged. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only that portion containing exculpatory information must be disclosed.
(c) The notice sent to the Attorney General from the reviewing official as
described in § 13.5 is not discoverable under any circumstances.
(d) The defendant may file a motion to compel disclosure of the documents subject to the provisions of this section. Such a motion may only be filed with the ALJ following the filing of an answer pursuant to § 13.9.
§ 13.21
Discovery.
(a) The following types of discovery are authorized:
(1) Requests for production of documents for inspection and copying;
(2) Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant document or of the truth of any relevant fact;
(3) Written interrogatories; and
(4) Depositions.
(b) For the purpose of this section and §§ 13.22 and 13.23, the term “documents” includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the creation of a document.
(c) Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the ALJ. The ALJ shall regulate the timing of discovery.
(d)
Motions for discovery.
(1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion with the ALJ. Such a motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the requested discovery, or in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition.
(2) Within ten days of service, a party may file an opposition to the motion and/or a motion for protective order as provided in § 13.24.
(3) The ALJ may grant a motion for discovery only if he or she finds that the discovery sought—
(i) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues;
(ii) Is not unduly costly or burdensome;
(iii) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and
(iv) Does not seek privileged information.
(4) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery.
(5) The ALJ may grant discovery subject to a protective order under § 13.24.
(e)
Depositions.
(1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the ALJ shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held.
(2) The party seeking to depose shall serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in § 13.8.
(3) The deponent may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order within ten days of service.
(4) The party seeking to depose shall provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition, which it shall make available to all other parties for inspection and copying.
(f) Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery.
§ 13.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.
(a) At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other times as may be ordered by the ALJ, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with § 13.33(b). At the time the above documents are exchanged, any party that intends to rely on the transcript of deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the ALJ, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence.
(b) If a party objects, the ALJ shall not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as provided above unless the ALJ finds good cause for the failure or that there in no prejudice to the objecting party.
(c) Unless another party objects within the time set by the ALJ, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
§ 13.23
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the ALJ issue a subpoena.
(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. Such request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit such witnesses to be found.
(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed in § 13.8. A subpoena on a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail.
(f) A party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within ten days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than ten days after service.
§ 13.24
Protective order.
(a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
(b) In issuing a protective order, the ALJ may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following:
(1) That the discovery not be had;
(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested;
(4) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
(5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the ALJ;
(6) That the contents of discovery or evidence by sealed;
(7) That a deposition after being sealed be opened only by order of the ALJ;
(8) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, commercial information, or facts pertaining to any criminal investigation, proceeding, or other administrative investigation not be disclosed or be disclosed only in a designated way; or
(9) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the ALJ.
§ 13.25
Fees.
The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the fees and mileage of any witness subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the authority, a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.
§ 13.26
Filing and service of papers.
(a)
Filing.
(1) Unless otherwise provided by order, all filings must be made as electronic submissions in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions may be found in the E-Filing Guidance and on the NRC Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html.
If a filing contains sections of information or electronic formats that may not be transmitted electronically for security or other reasons, portions not containing those sections will be transmitted electronically to the E-Filing system. In addition, optical
storage media (OSM) containing the entire filing must be physically delivered or mailed. In such cases, the submitter does not need to apply to the Commission for an exemption to deviate from the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) Electronic transmission exemption. The ALJ may relieve a participant who is filing electronic documents of the transmission requirements in paragraph (a) of this section. Such a participant will file electronic documents by physically delivering or mailing an OSM containing the documents. The electronic formatting requirement in paragraph (a) of this section must be met.
(3) Electronic document exemption. The ALJ may relieve a participant of both the electronic (computer file) formatting and transmission requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such a participant will file paper documents physically or by mail to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, Attention: Rulemakings and Adjudications Staff. Filing by mail is complete upon deposit in the mail.
(4) Requesting an exemption. A participant seeking an exemption under paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section must submit the exemption request with its first filing in the proceeding. In the request, the requestor must show good cause as to why it cannot file electronically. The filer may not change its formats and delivery methods for filing until a ruling on the exemption request is issued. Exemption requests submitted after the first filing in the proceeding will be granted only if the requestor shows that the interests of fairness so require.
(5) Every pleading and document filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the presiding officer, and a designation of the document (e.g., motion to quash subpoena).
(6) Filing is complete when the filer performs the last act that it must perform to submit a document, such as hitting the send/submit/transmit button for an electronic transmission or depositing the document, in its entirety, in a mailbox.
(b)
Signatures.
The original of each document must be signed by the participant or its authorized representative, or by an attorney having authority with respect to it. The document must state the capacity of the person signing; his or her address, phone number, and e-mail address; and the date of signature. The signature of a person signing a pleading or other similar document submitted by a participant is a representation that the document has been subscribed in the capacity specified with full authority, that he or she has read it and knows the contents, that to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief the statements made in it are true, and that it is not interposed for delay. The signature of a person signing an affidavit or similar document, which should be submitted in accord with the form outlined in 28 U.S.C. 1746, is a representation that, under penalty of perjury, the document is true and correct to the best of that individual's knowledge and belief. If a document is not signed, or is signed with intent to defeat the purpose of this section, it may be struck.
(1) An electronic document must be signed using a participant's or a participant representative's digital ID certificate. Additional signatures can be added to the electronic document, including to any affidavits that accompany the document, by a typed-in designation that indicates the signer understands and acknowledges that he or she is assenting to the representations in paragraph (d) of this section.
(i) When signing an electronic document using a digital ID certificate, the signature page for the electronic document should contain a typed signature block that includes the phrase “Signed (electronically) by” typed onto the signature line; the name and the capacity of the person signing; the person's address, phone number, and e-mail address; and the date of signature.
(ii) If additional individuals need to sign an electronic document, including any affidavits that accompany the document, these individuals must sign by inserting a typed signature block in the electronic document that includes the phrase “Executed in Accord with 10 CFR 2.304(d)” or its equivalent typed on the signature line as well as the
name and the capacity of the person signing; the person's address, phone number, and e-mail address; and the date of signature to the extent any of these items are different from the information provided for the digital ID certificate signer.
(2) Paper documents must be signed in ink.
(c)
Service.
A participant filing a document with the ALJ shall at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other participant. Service upon any participant of any document other than those required to be served as prescribed in § 13.8 shall be made electronically to the E-Filing system. When a participant is represented by a representative, service shall be made upon such representative in lieu of the actual participant. Upon an order from the ALJ permitting alternative filing methods under paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, service may be made by physical delivery or mail. As to each participant that cannot serve electronically, the ALJ shall require service by the most expeditious means permitted under this paragraph that are available to the participant, unless the ALJ finds that this requirement would impose undue burden or expense on the participant.
(1) Unless otherwise provided in this paragraph, a participant will serve documents on the other participants by the same method that those participants filed.
(2) A participant granted an exemption under paragraph (a)(2) of this section will serve the participants in the proceeding that filed electronically by physically delivering or mailing an OSM containing the electronic document.
(3) A participant granted an exemption under paragraph (a)(3) will serve the other participants in the proceeding by physically delivering or mailing a paper copy.
(4) A certificate of service stating the names and addresses of the persons served as well as the method and date of service must accompany any paper served upon participants to the proceeding.
(5) Proof of service, which states the name and address of the person served as well as the method and date of service, may be made as required by law, by rule, or by order of the Commission.
[72 FR 49152, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 13.27
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the day following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday or Sunday, a Federal legal holiday at the place where the action or event is to occur, or a day on which, because of emergency closure of the federal government in Washington, DC, NRC Headquarters does not open for business, in which event it includes the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, holiday or emergency closure.
(b) When the period of time allowed is less than seven (7) days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, Federal legal holidays, and emergency closures shall be excluded from the computation.
(c) Whenever an action is required within a prescribed period by a document served pursuant to § 13.26, no additional time is added to the prescribed period except in the following circumstances:
(1) If a notice or document is served upon a participant, by first-class mail only, three (3) calendar days will be added to the prescribed period for all the participants in the proceeding.
(2) If a notice or document is served upon a participant, by express mail or other expedited service only, two (2) calendar days will be added to the prescribed period for all the participants in the proceeding.
(3) If a document is to be served by multiple service methods, such as partially electronic and entirely on an OSM, the additional number of days is computed according to the service method used to deliver the entire document, excluding courtesy copies, to all of the other participants in the proceeding. The presiding officer may determine the calculation of additional days when a participant is not entitled to receive an entire filing served by multiple methods.
(4) In mixed service proceedings where all participants are not using the same filing and service method, the
number of days for service will be determined by the presiding officer based on considerations of fairness and efficiency. The same number of additional days will be added to the prescribed period for all the participants in the proceeding with the number of days being determined by the slowest method of service being used in the proceeding.
(d) To be considered timely, a document must be served:
(1) By 5 p.m. Eastern Time for a document served in person or by expedited service; and
(2) By 11:59 p.m. Eastern Time for a document served by the E-Filing system.
[72 FR 49153, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 13.28
Motions.
(a) Any application to the ALJ for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, and the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the ALJ and served on all other parties.
(b) Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The ALJ may require that oral motions be reduced to writing.
(c) Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the ALJ, any party may file a response to such motion.
(d) The ALJ may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny such motion without awaiting a response.
(e) The ALJ shall make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.
§ 13.29
Sanctions.
(a) The ALJ may sanction a person, including any party or representative for—
(1) Failing to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
(2) Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b) Any such sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the ALJ may—
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) In the case of requests for admission, deem each matter of which an admission is requested to be admitted;
(3) Prohibit the party failing to comply with such order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon testimony relating to the information sought; and
(4) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with such request.
(d) If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the ALJ may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.
(e) The ALJ may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief or other document which is not filed in a timely fashion.
§ 13.30
The hearing and burden of proof.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the defendant is liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 13.3 and, if so, the appropriate amount of any such civil penalty or assessment considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.
(b) The authority shall prove defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The defendant shall prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause shown.
§ 13.31
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
(a) In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessments, the ALJ and the authority head, upon appeal, should evaluate any circumstances that mitigate or aggravate the violation and should articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments they impose. Because of the intangible costs of fraud, the expense of investigating such conduct, and the need to deter others who might be similarly tempted, ordinarily double damages and a significant civil penalty should be imposed.
(b) Although not exhaustive, the following factors are among those that may influence the ALJ and the authority head in determining the amount of penalties and assessments to impose with respect to the misconduct (
i.e.,
the false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements) charged in the complaint:
(1) The number of false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements;
(2) The time period over which such claims or statements were made;
(3) The degree of the defendant's culpability with respect to the misconduct;
(4) The amount of money or the value of the property, services, or benefit falsely claimed;
(5) The value of the Government's actual loss as a result of the misconduct, including foreseeable consequential damages and the costs of investigation;
(6) The relationship of the amount imposed as civil penalties to the amount of the Government's loss;
(7) The potential or actual impact of the misconduct upon national defense, public health or safety, or public confidence in the management of Government programs and operations, including particularly the impact on the intended beneficiaries of such programs;
(8) Whether the defendant has engaged in a pattern of the same or similar misconduct;
(9) Whether the defendant attempted to conceal the misconduct;
(10) The degree to which the defendant has involved others in the misconduct or in concealing it;
(11) Where the misconduct of employees or agents is imputed to the defendant, the extent to which the defendant's practices fostered or attempted to preclude such misconduct;
(12) Whether the defendant cooperated in or obstructed an investigation of the misconduct;
(13) Whether the defendant assisted in identifying and prosecuting other wrongdoers;
(14) The complexity of the program or transaction, and the degree of the defendant's sophistication with respect to it, including the extent of the defendant's prior participation in the program or in similar transactions;
(15) Whether the defendant has been found, in any criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding to have engaged in similar misconduct or to have dealt dishonestly with the Government of the United States or of a State, directly or indirectly; and
(16) The need to deter the defendant and others from engaging in the same or similar misconduct.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ALJ or the authority head from considering any other factors that in any given case may mitigate or aggravate the offense for which penalties and assessments are imposed.
§ 13.32
Location of hearing.
(a) The hearing may be held—
(1) In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business;
(2) In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement in issue was made; or
(3) In such other place as may be agreed upon by the defendant and the ALJ.
(b) Each party shall have the opportunity to present argument with respect to the location of the hearing.
(c) The hearing shall be held at the place and at the time ordered by the ALJ.
§ 13.33
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the ALJ, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition. Any such written statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time for other parties to subpoena such witness for cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in § 13.22(a).
(c) The ALJ shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to—
(1) Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth;
(2) Avoid needless consumption of time; and
(3) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The ALJ shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(e) At the discretion of the ALJ, a witness may be cross-examined on matters relevant to the proceeding without regard to the scope of his or her direct examination. To the extent permitted by the ALJ, cross-examination on matters outside the scope of direct examination shall be conducted in the manner of direct examination and may proceed by leading questions only if the witness is a hostile witness, an adverse party, or a witness identified with an adverse party.
(f) Upon motion of any party, the ALJ shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This rule does not authorize exclusion of—
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party appearing for the entity pro se or designated by the party's representative; or
(3) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual employed by the Government engaged in assisting the representative for the Government.
§ 13.34
Evidence.
(a) The ALJ shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided in this part, the ALJ shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the ALJ may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate, e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.
(c) The ALJ shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.
(d) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(e) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law.
(f) Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(g) The ALJ shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 13.24.
§ 13.35
The record.
(a) The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the ALJ at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.
(b) The transcript of testimony, exhibits and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the ALJ and the authority head.
(c) The record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 13.24.
§ 13.36
Post-hearing briefs.
The ALJ may require the parties to file post-hearing briefs. In any event, any party may file a post-hearing brief. The ALJ shall fix the time for filing such briefs, not to exceed 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable,
the stipulated record. Such briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The ALJ may permit the parties to file reply briefs.
§ 13.37
Initial decision.
(a) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision based only on the record, which shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:
(1) Whether the claims or statements identified in the complaint, or any portions thereof, violate § 13.3; and
(2) If the person is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of any such penalties or assessments considering any mitigating or aggravating factors that he or she finds in the case, such as those described in § 13.31.
(c) The ALJ shall promptly serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs (if permitted) has expired. The ALJ shall at the same time serve all parties with a statement describing the right of any defendant determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the ALJ or a notice of appeal with the authority head. If the ALJ fails to meet the deadline contained in this paragraph, he or she shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
(d) Unless the initial decision of the ALJ is timely appealed to the authority head, or a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision is timely filed, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the ALJ.
§ 13.38
Reconsideration of initial decision.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If service was made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be five days from the date of mailing in the absence of contrary proof.
(b) Every such motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. Such motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.
(c) Responses to such motions shall be allowed only upon request of the ALJ.
(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.
(e) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
(f) If the ALJ denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with § 13.39.
(g) If the ALJ issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final decision of the authority head and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the authority head in accordance with § 13.39.
§ 13.39
Appeal to authority head.
(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal such decision to the authority head by filing a notice of appeal with the authority head in accordance with this section.
(b)(1) A notice of appeal may be filed at any time within 30 days after the ALJ issues an initial decision. However, if another party files a motion for reconsideration under § 13.38, consideration of the appeal shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration.
(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.
(3) The authority head may extend the initial 30 day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files
with the authority head a request for an extension within the initial 30 day period and shows good cause.
(c) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the authority head and the time for filing motions for reconsideration under § 13.38 has expired, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the authority head.
(d) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.
(e) The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.
(f) There is no right to appear personally before the authority head.
(g) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the ALJ.
(h) In reviewing the initial decision, the authority head shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the ALJ unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.
(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the authority head that additional evidence not presented at each hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present such evidence at such hearing, the authority head shall remand the matter to the ALJ for consideration of such additional evidence.
(j) The authority head may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment, determined by the ALJ in any initial decision.
(k) The authority head shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the decision of the authority head and a statement describing the right of any person determined to be liable for a penalty or assessment to seek judicial review.
(l) Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805 after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the authority head serves the defendant with a copy of the authority head's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under § 13.3 is final and is not subject to judicial review.
§ 13.40
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
If at any time the Attorney General or an Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General transmits to the authority head a written finding that continuation of the administrative process described in this part with respect to a claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to such claim or statement, the authority head shall stay the process immediately. The authority head may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.
§ 13.41
Stay pending appeal.
(a) An initial decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the authority head.
(b) No administrative stay is available following a final decision of the authority head.
§ 13.42
Judicial review.
Section 3805 of title 31, United States Code, authorizes judicial review by an appropriate United States District Court of a final decision of the authority head imposing penalties or assessments under this part and specifies the procedures for such review.
§ 13.43
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
Sections 3806 and 3808(b) of title 31, United States Code, authorize actions for collection of civil penalties and assessments imposed under this part and specify the procedures for such actions.
§ 13.44
Right to administrative offset.
The amount of any penalty or assessment which has become final, or for which a judgment has been entered under § 13.42 or § 13.43, or any amount agreed upon in a compromise or settlement under § 13.46, may be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, except that an administrative offset may not be made under this subsection against a refund of an overpayment of Federal taxes, then or later
owing by the United States to the defendant.
§ 13.45
Deposit in Treasury of United States.
All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States, except as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3806(g).
§ 13.46
Compromise or settlement.
(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.
(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision.
(c) The authority head has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under § 13.42 or during the pendancy of any action to collect penalties and assessments under § 13.43.
(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendancy of any review under § 13.42 or of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(e) The investigating officer may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the authority head, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.
(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
§ 13.47
Limitations.
(a) The notice of hearing with respect to a claim or statement must be served in the manner specified in § 13.8 within 6 years after the date on which such claim or statement is made.
(b) If the defendant fails to serve a timely answer, service of a notice under § 13.10(b) shall be deemed a notice of hearing for purposes of this section.
(c) The statute of limitations may be extended by agreement of the parties.
Pt. 14

# PART 14—ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIMS UNDER FEDERAL TORT CLAIMS ACT

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
14.1
Scope of regulations.
14.3
Limit on attorney fees; penalty.

# Subpart B—Filing Procedures and Requirements
14.11
Who may file a claim.
14.13
When is a claim presented to NRC.
14.15
Where to present a claim to NRC.
14.17
A claim must be presented to the appropriate agency.
14.19
When a claim is filed with more than one agency.
14.21
Filing a claim after an agency final denial.
14.23
Evidence and information to be submitted.
14.25
Amending a claim.
14.27
Time limit.

# Subpart C—Commission Action and Authority
14.31
Investigation.
14.33
Officials authorized to act.
14.35
Limitation on NRC's authority.
14.37
Final denial of claim.
14.39
Reconsideration of a claim.
14.41
Payment of approved claims.
14.43
Acceptance of payment constitutes release.

# Subpart D—Employee Drivers
14.51
Procedures when employee drivers are sued.
14.53
Scope of employment report.
14.55
Removal of State court proceedings.
14.57
Suit against the United States exclusive remedy.

# Authority:
28 U.S.C. 2672, 2679; Atomic Energy Act of 1954, sec. 161 (42 U.S.C. 2201); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, sec. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); 28 CFR 14.11.

# Source:
47 FR 8983, Mar. 3, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 14.1
Scope of regulations.
(a) The terms “Nuclear Regulatory Commission” and “NRC” as used in this part mean the agency established by section 201(a) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, but do not include any contractor with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
(b) The regulations in this part supplement the Department of Justice's regulations in 28 CFR parts 14 and 15.
(c) These regulations apply to administrative claims under the Federal Tort Claims Act, as amended, asserted on or after the effective date of this rule, for money damages against the United States for damage to or loss of property or personal injury or death caused by the negligent or wrongful act or omission of any employee of the NRC while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment, under circumstances where the United States, if a private person, would be liable to the claimant in accordance with the law of the place where the act or omission occurred.
(d) These regulations also set forth the procedures when lawsuits are commenced against an employee of the NRC resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle while acting within the scope of his or her employment.
§ 14.3
Limit on attorney fees; penalty.
(a) An attorney may not charge or receive fees in excess of:
(1) 25 percent of any judgment rendered under 28 U.S.C. 1346(b);
(2) 25 percent of any settlement made under 28 U.S.C. 2677; or
(3) 20 percent of any award, compromise, or settlement made under 28 U.S.C. 2672.
(b) Any attorney who charges or receives any amount in excess of that allowed under this section is subject to a fine of not more than $2,000 or imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. (28 U.S.C. 2678)

# Subpart B—Filing Procedures and Requirements
§ 14.11
Who may file a claim.
(a) A claim for damage to or loss of property may be presented by the owner of the property interest which is the subject of the claim, his or her duly authorized agent, or his or her legal representative.
(b) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the injured person, his or her duly authorized agent, or his or her legal representative.
(c) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor or administrator of the decedent's estate, or by any other person legally entitled to assert the claim under applicable State law.
(d) A claim for loss wholly compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer. A claim for loss partially compensated by an insurer with the rights of a subrogee may be presented by the insurer or the insured individually, to the extent of their respective interests, or jointly. Whenever an insurer presents a claim asserting the rights of a subrogee, the insurer shall present with the claim appropriate evidence that the insurer has the rights of a subrogee.
(e) If a claim is presented by an agent or legal representative that person shall:
(1) Present the claim in the name of the claimant;
(2) Sign the claim;
(3) Show the title or legal capacity of the person signing the claim; and
(4) Include with the claim evidence of his or her authority to present a claim on behalf of the claimant as agent, executor, administrator, parent, guardian, or other representative.
§ 14.13
When is a claim presented to NRC.
For purposes of the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 2672, a claim is presented when NRC receives from a claimant, or the claimant's duly authorized agent or legal representative, an executed Standard Form 95 or other written notification of an incident. An executed Standard Form 95 or written notification must be accompanied by a claim for money damages in a sum certain for damage to or loss of property, personal injury, or death alleged to have occurred by reason of the incident.
§ 14.15
Where to present a claim to NRC.
A claimant shall mail or deliver the claim to the office of employment of the NRC employee whose negligent or wrongful act or omission is alleged to have caused the loss or injury. If the office of employment is not known, the claimant shall file the claim with the
Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555.
[47 FR 8983, Mar. 3, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 35999, Oct. 8, 1986]
§ 14.17
A claim must be presented to the appropriate agency.
A claimant shall present the claim to the Federal agency whose activities gave rise to the claim. If a claim is erroneously presented to the NRC, the NRC shall transfer it to the appropriate agency, if the proper agency can be identified from the claim, and shall advise the claimant of the transfer. If transfer is not feasible, the NRC shall return the claim to the claimant. The fact of transfer does not, in itself, preclude further transfer, return of the claim to the claimant, or other appropriate disposition of the claim. A claim shall be presented, as required by 28 U.S.C. 2401(b), as of the date it is received by the appropriate agency.
§ 14.19
When a claim is filed with more than one agency.
(a) If the NRC and one or more other Federal agencies is or may be involved in the events giving rise to the claim, and if the claim is filed with the NRC, the NRC shall contact all other affected agencies in order to designate the single agency which will investigate and decide the merits of the claim.
(1) In the event that an agreed upon designation cannot be made by the affected agencies, the Department of Justice will be consulted and will designate a primary agency to investigate and decide the merits of the claim. If the NRC is designated as the primary agency, it shall notify the claimant that all future correspondence concerning the claim shall be directed to the NRC.
(2) All involved Federal agencies can agree either to conduct their own administrative reviews and to coordinate the results or to have the investigations conducted by the primary agency. In either event, the primary agency is responsible for the final determination of the claim.
(b) A claimant presenting a claim arising from an incident to more than one agency should identify each agency to which the claim is submitted at the time each claim is presented. If a claim arising from an incident is presented to more than one Federal agency without any indication that more than one agency is involved, and any one of the concerned Federal agencies takes final action on that claim, the final action is conclusive on the claims presented to the other agencies in regard to the time required for filing suit set forth in 28 U.S.C. 2401(b). However, if NRC, as a subsequently involved Federal agency, desires to take further action with a view towards settling the claim, the NRC may treat the matter as a request for reconsideration of the final denial under 10 CFR 14.39, unless suit has been filed in the interim, and advise the claimant of the action.
§ 14.21
Filing a claim after an agency final denial.
If, after a final denial by another agency, the claimant files with the NRC a claim arising out of the same incident on which the claim filed with the other agency was based, the submission of the claim to NRC will not toll the requirement of 28 U.S.C. 2401(b) that suit must be filed within six months of the final denial by the other agency, unless the other agency specifically and explicitly treats the submission to NRC as a request for reconsideration under 10 CFR 14.39 and advises the claimant of the action.
§ 14.23
Evidence and information to be submitted.
(a)
Death.
In support of a claim based on death, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) An authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing cause of death, date of death, and age of decedent.
(2) Decedent's employment or occupation at time of death, including his or her monthly or yearly salary or earnings (if any), and the duration of his or her last employment or occupation.
(3) Full names, addresses, birth dates, kinship, and marital status of the decedent's survivors, including identification of those survivors who were dependent for support upon the decedent at the time of death.
(4) Degree of support afforded by the decedent to each survivor dependent upon him or her for support at the time of death.
(5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition before death.
(6) Itemized bills for medical and burial expenses incurred by reason of the incident causing death, or itemized receipts of payment for these expenses.
(7) If damages for pain and suffering prior to death are claimed, a physician's detailed statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, any drugs administered for pain, and the decedent's physical condition in the interval between injury and death.
(8) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the death or the amount of damages claimed.
(b)
Personal injury.
In support of a claim for personal injury, including pain and suffering, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) A written report by the attending physician or dentist setting forth the nature and extent of the injury, nature and extent of treatment, any degree of temporary or permanent disability and prognosis, period of hospitalization, and any diminished earning capacity. In addition, the claimant may be required to submit to a physical or mental examination by a physician employed by the NRC or another Federal agency. The claimant may request in writing a copy of the report of the examining physician if the claimant has:
(i) Furnished the report referred to in paragraph (a)(1) of this section on request; and
(ii) Made or agrees to make available to the NRC all other reports of the claimant's physical or mental condition which have been or are made by any physician.
(2) Itemized bills for medical, dental, and hospital expenses incurred, or itemized receipts of payment for these expenses.
(3) If the prognosis reveals the necessity for future treatment, a statement of expected expenses for the treatment.
(4) If a claim is made for loss of time from employment, a written statement from his or her employer showing actual time lost from employment, whether he or she is a full- or part-time employee, and wages or salary actually lost.
(5) If a claim is made for loss of income and the claimant is self-employed, documentary evidence showing the amount of earnings actually lost.
(6) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the personal injury or the damages claimed.
(c)
Property damage.
In support of a claim for damage to or loss of property, real or personal, the claimant may be required to submit the following evidence or information:
(1) Proof of ownership of the property interest which is the subject of the claim.
(2) A detailed statement of the amount claimed with respect to each item of property.
(3) An itemized receipt of payment for necessary repairs or itemized written estimates of the cost of these repairs.
(4) A statement listing date of purchase, purchase price, and salvage value, where repair is not economical.
(5) Any other evidence or information which may have a bearing on either the responsibility of the United States for the injury to or loss of property or the damages claimed.
§ 14.25
Amending a claim.
The claimant may amend a claim presented in compliance with 10 CFR 14.13 at any time prior to final agency action or prior to the exercise of the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a). The claimant or his or her duly authorized agent or legal representative shall sign each amendment and submit it in writing. Upon the timely filing of an amendment to a pending claim, the agency shall have six months in which to make a final disposition of the claim as amended and
the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a) does not accrue until six months after the filing of an amendment.
§ 14.27
Time limit.
The claimant shall furnish evidence and information of the types described in 10 CFR 14.23, to the extent reasonably practicable, when the claim is initially presented. If the claimant fails to furnish sufficient evidence and information within six months after the claim was initially presented to enable NRC to adjust, determine, compromise and settle the claim, NRC may consider the claim a nullity.

# Subpart C—Commission Action and Authority
§ 14.31
Investigation.
The NRC may:
(a) Require the claimant to furnish any evidence or information which is relevant to its consideration of the claim;
(b) Examine the claimant; or
(c) Investigate, or request any other Federal agency to investigate, a claim filed under this part.
§ 14.33
Officials authorized to act.
The General Counsel or the General Counsel's designee shall exercise the authority to adjust, determine, compromise and settle a claim under the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 2672.
[51 FR 35999, Oct. 8, 1986]
§ 14.35
Limitation on NRC's authority.
(a) The NRC shall effect an award, compromise, or settlement of a claim hereunder in excess of $25,000 only with the prior written approval of the Attorney General or his designee. For the purposes of this paragraph, a principal claim and any derivative or subrogated claim are treated as a single claim.
(b) The NRC may adjust, determine, compromise, or settle a claim under this part only after consultation with the Department of Justice if, in the opinion of the Office of the General Counsel:
(1) A new precedent or a new point of law is involved;
(2) A question of policy is or may be involved;
(3) The United States is or may be entitled to indemnity or contribution from a third party and the NRC is unable to adjust the third party claim; or
(4) The compromise of a particular claim, as a practical matter, will or may control the disposition of a related claim in which the amount to be paid may exceed $25,000.
(c) The NRC may adjust, determine, compromise, or settle a claim under this part only after consultation with the Department of Justice if the NRC is informed or is otherwise aware that the United States, or an employee, agent, or cost-plus contractor of the United States, is involved in litigation based on a claim arising out of the same incident or transaction.
(d) When Department of Justice approval or consultation is required under this section or the advice of the Department of Justice is otherwise requested, the NRC shall direct the referral or request to the Assistant Attorney General, Civil Division, Department of Justice, in writing. The NRC shall ensure that the referral or request contains:
(1) A short and concise statement of the facts and the reasons for the referral or request;
(2) Copies of relevant portions of NRC's claim file; and
(3) A statement of the recommendations or views of the NRC.
A referral or request to the Department of Justice may be made at any time after presentment of a claim to the NRC.
[47 FR 8983, Mar. 3, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 35999, Oct. 8, 1986]
§ 14.37
Final denial of claim.
The NRC shall send notice of a final denial of a claim in writing to the claimant, his or her attorney or legal representative, by certified or registered mail. The notification of final denial may include a statement of the reasons for the denial. The NRC shall include a statement in the notification of final denial that, if the claimant is dissatisfied with NRC's action, he or she may file suit in an appropriate U.S. District Court not later than 6 months
after the date of mailing of the notification.
§ 14.39
Reconsideration of a claim.
Prior to the commencement of suit and prior to the expiration of the 6-month period provided in 28 U.S.C. 2401(b), a claimant, or his or her duly authorized agent, or legal representative, may file a written request with the NRC for reconsideration of a final denial of a claim. Upon the timely filing of a request for reconsideration, the NRC shall have 6 months from the date of filing in which to make a final disposition of the claim, and the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a) does not accrue until 6 months after the filing of a request for reconsideration. Final NRC action on a request for reconsideration shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 10 CFR 14.37.
§ 14.41
Payment of approved claims.
(a) The NRC shall pay any award, compromise, or settlement in an amount of $2,500 or less made under the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 2672 out of the appropriations available to it. The NRC shall obtain payment of any award, compromise, or settlement in excess of $2,500 from the Department of the Treasury by forwarding Standard Form 1145 to the Payment Branch, Claims Group, General Accounting Office. If an award, compromise, or settlement is in excess of $25,000, Standard Form 1145 must be accompanied by evidence that the award, compromise, or settlement has been approved by the Attorney General or the Attorney General's designee. When the use of Standard Form 1145 is required, it must be executed by the claimant or it must be accompanied by either a claims settlement agreement or a Standard Form 95 executed by the claimant.
(b) If a claimant is represented by an attorney, the voucher for payment must designate both the claimant and his or her attorney as payees, and the check must be delivered to the attorney whose address appears on the voucher.
§ 14.43
Acceptance of payment constitutes release.
Acceptance by the claimant, his agent, or legal representative, of any award, compromise, or settlement made under the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 2672 or 2677, is final and conclusive on the claimant, his or her agent or legal representative and any other person on whose behalf or for whose benefit the claim has been presented. Acceptance constitutes a complete release of any claim against the United States and against any employee of the Government whose act or omission gave rise to the claim.

# Subpart D—Employee Drivers
§ 14.51
Procedures when employee drivers are sued.
(a) Any NRC employee against whom a civil action or proceeding is brought for damage to property, or for personal injury or death, on account of the employee's operation of a motor vehicle in the scope of his or her office or employment with the NRC, shall promptly deliver all process and pleadings served upon the employee, or an attested true copy, to the Office of the General Counsel. If the action is brought against an employee's estate, this procedure applies to the employee's personal representative.
(b) In addition, upon the employee's receipt of any process or pleadings, or any prior information regarding the commencement of a civil action or proceeding, the employee shall immediately advise the Office of the General Counsel by telephone or telegraph.
[47 FR 8983, Mar. 3, 1982, as amended at 51 FR 35999, Oct. 8, 1986]
§ 14.53
Scope of employment report.
A report containing all data bearing upon the question whether the employee was acting within the scope of his or her office or employment will be furnished by the General Counsel or designee to the United States Attorney for the district encompassing the place where the civil action or proceeding is brought. A copy of the report also will be furnished to the Director of the Torts Branch, Civil Division, Department of Justice, at the earliest possible
date, or within the time specified by the United States Attorney.
[51 FR 35999, Oct. 8, 1986]
§ 14.55
Removal of State court proceedings.
Upon a certification by the United States Attorney that the defendant employee was acting within the scope of his or her office or employment at the time of the incident out of which the suit arose, any civil action or proceeding commenced in a State court may be removed to the district court of the United States for the district and division encompassing the place where the action or proceeding is pending in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 2679.
§ 14.57
Suit against United States exclusive remedy.
The remedy against the United States provided by 28 U.S.C. 1346(b) and 2672 for damage to or loss of property or personal injury or death, resulting from the operation by an employee of the Government of any motor vehicle while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment, is exclusive of any other civil action or proceeding by reason of the same subject matter against the employee or his or her estate whose act or omission gave rise to the claim.
Pt. 15

# PART 15—DEBT COLLECTION PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—Application and Coverage
Sec.
15.1
Application.
15.2
Definitions.
15.3
Communications.
15.5
Claims that are covered.
15.7
Monetary limitation on NRC's authority.
15.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
15.9
No private rights created.
15.11
Form of payment.
15.13
Subdivision of claims.

# Subpart B—Administrative Collection of Claims
15.20
Aggressive agency collection activity.
15.21
Written demands for payment.
15.23
Telephone or internet inquiries and investigations.
15.25
Personal interviews.
15.26
Reporting claims.
15.27
Contact with debtor's employing agency.
15.29
Suspension or revocation of license.
15.31
Disputed debts.
15.32
Contracting for collection services.
15.33
Collection by administrative offset.
15.35
Payments.
15.37
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
15.38
Use of credit reports.
15.39
Bankruptcy claims.

# Subpart C—Compromise of a Claim
15.41
When a claim may be compromised.
15.43
Reasons for compromising a claim.
15.45
Consideration of tax consequences to the Government.
15.47
Finality of a compromise.
15.49
Mutual releases of the debtor and the Government.

# Subpart D—Suspension or Termination of Collection Action
15.51
When collection action may be suspended or terminated.
15.53
Reasons for suspending collection action.
15.55
Reasons for terminating collection action.
15.57
Termination of collection action.
15.59
Exception to termination.
15.60
Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements.

# Subpart E—Referral of a Claim
15.61
Prompt referral.
15.65
Referral of a compromise offer.
15.67
Referral to the Department of Justice.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 161, 186 (42 U.S.C. 2201, 2236); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, sec. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); 5 U.S.C. 5514; 26 U.S.C. 6402; 31 U.S.C. 3701, 3713, 3716, 3719, 3720A; 42 U.S.C. 664; 44 U.S.C. 3504 note; 31 CFR parts 900 through 904; 31 CFR part 285; E.O. 12146, 44 FR 42657, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 409; E.O. 12988, 61 FR 4729, 3 CFR, 1996 Comp., p. 157.

# Source:
47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Application and Coverage
§ 15.1
Application.
(a) This part applies to claims for the payment of debts owed to the United States Government in the form of money or property and; unless a different procedure is specified in a statute, regulation, or contract; prescribes procedures by which the NRC—
(1) Collects, compromises, suspends, offsets, and terminates collection action for claims;
(2) Determines and collects interest and other charges on these claims; and
(3) Refers unpaid claims over 180 days delinquent to Treasury for offset and collection and to the DOJ for litigation.
(b) The following are examples of kinds of debts to which special statutory and administrative procedures apply:
(1) A claim against an employee for erroneous payment of pay and allowances subject to waiver under 5 U.S.C. 5584 are covered by the provisions of 10 CFR part 16.
(2) A claim against an applicant for, or a holder or former holder of, an NRC license involving the payment of civil penalties imposed by the NRC under 10 CFR 2.205.
(3) A claim involved in a case pending before any Federal Contract Appeals Board or Grant Appeals Board. However, nothing in this part prevents negotiation and settlement of a claim pending before a Board.
(c) The NRC is not limited to collection remedies contained in the revised Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS). The FCCS is not intended to impair common law remedies.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 32377, Aug. 9, 1990; 56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991; 67 FR 30318, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.2
Definitions.
Administrative offset
means withholding money payable by the United States Government to, or held by the Government for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the United States Government.
Administrative wage garnishment
is the process of withholding amounts from an employee's disposable pay and the paying of those amounts to a creditor in satisfaction of a withholding order.
Claim
and
debt
are used synonymously to refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be owed to the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms
claim
and
debt
include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Cross-servicing
means that the Treasury or another debt collection center is taking appropriate debt collection action on behalf of one or more Federal agencies or a unit or subagency thereof.
Delinquent.
A debt is considered delinquent if it has not been paid by the date specified in the initial written demand for payment or applicable contractual agreement with the NRC unless other satisfactory payment arrangements have been made by that date. If the debtor fails to satisfy obligations under a payment agreement with the NRC after other payment arrangements have been made, the debt becomes a delinquent debt.
Federal agencies
include agencies of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Government, including Government corporations.
License
means any license, permit, or other approval issued by the Commission.
Payment in full
means payment of the total debt due the United States, including any interest, penalty, and administrative costs of collection assessed against the debtor.
Recoupment
is a special method for adjusting debts arising under the same transaction or occurrence. For example, obligations arising under the same contract generally are subject to recoupment.
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his/her consent.
Tax refund offset
means withholding or reducing a tax refund payment by an amount necessary to satisfy a debt owed by the payee(s) of a tax refund payment.
Treasury
as used in 10 CFR part 15 means the Department of the Treasury.
Withholding order
means any order for withholding or garnishment of pay issued by an agency, or judicial or administrative body.
[55 FR 32377, Aug. 9, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991; 67 FR 30318, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.3
Communications.
Unless otherwise specified, communications concerning the regulations in this part may be addressed to the Secretary of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and sent either by mail to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, ATTN: Rulemakings and Adjudications Staff; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, One White Flint North, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
[68 FR 58801, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 62680, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74978, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 15.5
Claims that are covered.
(a) These procedures generally apply to any claim for payment of a debt which:
(1) Results from activities of the NRC, including fees imposed under part 170 and part 171; or
(2) Is referred to the NRC for collection.
(b) These procedures do not apply to:
(1) A claim based on a civil monetary penalty for violation of a licensing requirement unless § 2.205 of this chapter provides otherwise;
(2) A claim as to which there is an indication of fraud, the presentation of a false claim, or misrepresentation on the part of the debtor or any other party having an interest in the claim;
(3) A claim based in whole or in part on conduct in violation of the antitrust laws;
(4) A claim under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(5) A claim between Federal agencies. Federal agencies should attempt to resolve interagency claims as referenced in Executive Order 12146 (3 CFR, 1980 Comp., pp. 409-412).
(6) A claim once it becomes subject to salary offset under 5 U.S.C. 5514. These claims are subject to the provisions of 10 CFR part 16.
(7) A claim involving bankruptcy is covered by Title 11 of the United States Code.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 32377, Aug. 9, 1990; 56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991; 67 FR 30318, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.7
Monetary limitation on NRC's authority.
The NRC's authority to compromise a claim, or to terminate or suspend collection action on a claim covered by these procedures, is limited by 31 U.S.C. 3711(a) to claims that—
(a) Have not been referred to another Federal Agency for further collection actions; and
(b) Do not exceed $100,000 (exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative charges) or such higher amount as the Attorney General shall from time to time prescribe for purposes of compromise or suspension or termination of collection activity.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 32378, Aug. 9, 1990; 67 FR 30318, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
This part contains no information collection requirements, and therefore, is not subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
).
[67 FR 30319, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.9
No private rights created.
(a) The failure of NRC to include in this part any provision of the FCCS, 31 CFR Chapter IX, parts 900-904, does not prevent the NRC from applying these provisions.
(b) A debtor may not use the failure of the NRC to comply with any provision of this part or of the Federal Claims Collections Standards as a defense.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 32378, Aug. 9, 1990; 67 FR 30319, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.11
Form of payment.
These procedures are directed primarily to the recovery of money on behalf of the Government. The NRC may demand:
(a) The return of specific property; or
(b) The performance of specific services.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 67 FR 30319, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.13
Subdivision of claims.
The NRC shall consider a debtor's liability arising from a particular transaction or contract as a single claim in determining whether the claim is less than the monetary limitation for the purpose of compromising or suspending or terminating collection action. A claim may not be subdivided to avoid the monetary limitation established by 31 U.S.C. 3711(a)(2) and § 15.7.
[55 FR 32378, Aug. 9, 1990]

# Subpart B—Administrative Collection of Claims
§ 15.20
Aggressive agency collection activity.
(a) The NRC shall take aggressive action to collect all debts. These collection activities will be undertaken promptly and follow-up action will be taken as appropriate. These regulations do not require the Department of Justice, Department of the Treasury (Treasury), or any other Treasury-designated collection center to duplicate collection activities previously undertaken by NRC.
(b) Debt referred or transferred to Treasury or to a Treasury-designated debt collection center under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3711(g) must be serviced, collected, or compromised, or the collection action will be suspended or terminated, in accordance with the statutory requirements and authorities applicable to the collection of the debts.
(c) The NRC shall cooperate with other agencies in their debt collection activities.
(d) The NRC will consider referring debts that are less than 120 days delinquent to Treasury or to a Treasury-designated debt collection center to accomplish efficient, cost-effective debt collection. Referrals to debt collection centers are at the discretion of, and for a time period acceptable to, Treasury.
(e) The NRC shall transfer any debt that has been delinquent for 120 days or more to Treasury so that it may take appropriate action to collect the debt or terminate collection actions. This requirement does not apply to any debt that—
(1) Is in litigation or foreclosure;
(2) Will be disposed of under an approved asset sale program;
(3) Has been referred to a private collection contractor for a period of time acceptable to Treasury;
(4) Is at a debt collection center for a period of time acceptable to Treasury;
(5) Will be collected under internal offset procedures within 3 years after the date the debt first became delinquent; or
(6) Is exempt from this requirement based on a determination by Treasury that exemption for a certain class of debt is in the best interest of the United States.
(f) Agencies operating Treasury-designated debt collection centers are authorized to charge a fee for services rendered regarding referred or transferred debts. The fee may be paid out of amounts collected and may be added to the debt as an administrative cost.
[67 FR 30319, May 6, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 66602, Nov. 10, 2014]
§ 15.21
Written demands for payment.
(a) The NRC shall make appropriate written demands upon the debtor for payment of money or the return of specific property in terms which specify:
(1) The basis of the indebtedness and the right of the debtor to seek review within the NRC;
(2) The amount claimed;
(3) A description of any property which is to be returned by a date certain;
(4) The date on which payment is to be made (which is normally the date the initial written demand letter statement was mailed or hand delivered, unless otherwise specified by contractual agreement, established by Federal statute or regulation, or agreed to under a payment agreement);
(5) The applicable standards for assessing interest, penalties, and administrative costs under 31 CFR 901.9;
(6) The applicable policy for reporting the delinquent debt to consumer reporting agencies; and
(7) The name, address, and phone number of a contact person or office within the NRC will be included with each demand letter.
(b) The NRC shall normally send two demand letters to debtors. The initial demand letter will be followed approximately 30 days later with a second demand letter, unless circumstances indicate that alternative remedies better protect the Government's interest, that the debtor has explicitly refused to pay, or that sending a further demand letter is futile. Depending upon the circumstances, the first and second demand letters may—
(1) Offer or seek to confer with the debtor;
(2) State the amount of the interest and penalties that will be added on a daily basis as well as the administrative costs that will be added to the debt until the debt is paid; and
(3) State that the authorized collection procedures include any procedure authorized in this part including:
(i) Contacts with the debtor's employer when the debtor is employed by the Federal Government or is a member of the military establishment or the Coast Guard;
(ii) The NRC may report debts to credit bureaus, refer debts to debt collection centers and collection agencies for cross-servicing (including wage garnishment), tax refund offset, administrative offset, and litigation. Any eligible debt that is delinquent for 180 days or more will be transferred to the Treasury for collection. Credit bureau reporting for transferred debts will be handled by Treasury or a Treasury-designated center.
(iii) Possible reporting of the delinquent debt to consumer reporting agencies in accordance with the guidance and standards contained in 31 CFR 901.4.
(iv) The suspension or revocation of a license or other remedy under § 15.29;
(v) Installment payments possibly requiring security; and
(vi) The right to refer the claim to DOJ for litigation.
(c) The NRC shall normally send only one written demand to a debtor who is a current NRC employee. The procedure described in § 15.33 and 10 CFR part 16 will be followed if full payment is not received either 30 days from the date the initial written demand was mailed or hand delivered. If the NRC cannot obtain full payment by following the procedures described in § 15.33 and 10 CFR part 16, the NRC may follow other collection procedures described in this subpart.
(d) The failure to state in a letter of demand a matter described in § 15.21 is not a defense for a debtor and does not prevent the NRC from proceeding with respect to that matter.
(e) When the NRC learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, the NRC will cease collection action immediately unless it has been determined that under 11 U.S.C. 362, the automatic stay has been lifted or is no longer in effect.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 32378, Aug. 9, 1990; 56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991; 67 FR 30319, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.23
Telephone or internet inquiries and investigations.
(a) If a debtor has not responded to one or more demands, the NRC shall make reasonable efforts by telephone or internet to determine the debtor's intentions.
(b) The NRC may undertake an investigation to locate a debtor if the whereabouts of a debtor is a problem, or if a debtor cannot be contacted by telephone.
(c) The NRC, under 15 U.S.C. 1681(f), may obtain consumer credit information from private firms, including the name, address, former addresses, place of employment, and former places of employment of a debtor.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 67 FR 30319, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.25
Personal interviews.
(a) The NRC may seek an interview with the debtor at the offices of the NRC when—
(1) A matter involved in the claim needs clarification;
(2) Information is needed concerning the debtor's circumstances; or
(3) An agreement for payment might be negotiated.
(b) The NRC shall grant an interview with a debtor upon the debtor's request. The NRC will not reimburse a debtor's interview expenses.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 32378, Aug. 9, 1990]
§ 15.26
Reporting claims.
(a) In addition to assessing interest, penalties, and administrative costs under § 15.37, the NRC may report a debt that has been delinquent for 90 days to a consumer reporting agency if all the conditions of this paragraph are met.
(1) The debtor has not—
(i) Paid or agreed to pay the debt under a written payment plan that has been signed by the debtor and agreed to by the NRC; or
(ii) Filed for review of the debt under § 15.26 (a)(2)(iv).
(2) The NRC has included a notification in the second written demand (see § 15.21(b)) to the individual debtor stating—
(i) That the payment of the debt is delinquent;
(ii) That within not less than 60 days after the date of the notification, the NRC intends to disclose to a consumer reporting agency that the individual debtor is responsible for the debt;
(iii) The specific information to be disclosed to the consumer reporting agency; and
(iv) That the debtor has a right to a complete explanation of the debt (if that has not already been given), to dispute information in NRC records about the debt, and to request reconsideration of the debt by administrative appeal or review of the debt.
(3) The NRC has reconsidered its initial decision on the debt when the debtor has requested a review under paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section.
(4) The NRC has taken reasonable action to locate a debtor for whom the NRC does not have a current address to send the notification provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(b) If there is a substantial change in the condition or amount of the debt, the NRC shall—
(1) Promptly disclose that fact(s) to each consumer reporting agency to which the original disclosure was made;
(2) Promptly verify or correct information about a debt on request of a consumer reporting agency for verification of information disclosed by the NRC; and,
(3) Obtain assurances from the consumer reporting agency that the agency is complying with all applicable Federal, state and local laws relating to its use of consumer credit information.
(c) The information the NRC discloses to the consumer reporting agency is limited to—
(1) Information necessary to establish the identity of the individual debtor, including name, address, and taxpayer identification number;
(2) The amount, status, and history of the debt; and
(3) The NRC activity under which the debt arose.
[55 FR 32378, Aug. 9, 1990, as amended at 67 FR 30319, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.27
Contact with debtor's employing agency.
If the debtor is employed by the Federal government or is a member of the military establishment or the Coast Guard, collection by offset must be accomplished in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5514 and the provisions of 10 CFR part 16.
[56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991]
§ 15.29
Suspension or revocation of license.
In non-bankruptcy cases, the NRC may suspend or revoke any license, permit, or approval which the NRC has granted to the debtor for any inexcusable, prolonged, or repeated failure of the debtor to pay a delinquent debt. Before suspending or revoking any license, permit, or approval for failure to pay a debt, the NRC shall issue to the debtor (by certified mail) an order or a demand for information as to why the license, permit, or approval should not be suspended or revoked. The NRC shall allow the debtor no more than 30 days to pay the debt in full, including applicable interest, penalties, and administrative costs of collection of the delinquent debt. The NRC may revoke the license, permit, or approval at the end of this period. If a license is revoked under authority of this part, a new application, with appropriate fees, must be made to the NRC. The NRC may not consider an application unless all previous delinquent debts of the debtor to the NRC have been paid in full. The suspension or revocation of a license, permit, or approval is also applicable to Federal programs or activities that are administered by the states on behalf of the Federal Government to the extent that they affect the Federal Government's ability to collect money or funds owed by debtors. In bankruptcy cases, before advising the debtor of NRC's intention to suspend or revoke licenses, permits, or approvals, the NRC will seek legal advice from its Office of the General Counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code which may restrict such action.
[67 FR 30320, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.31
Disputed debts.
(a)
Submitting a dispute of debt.
For any type of charges assessed by the NRC, a debtor may submit a dispute of debt within 45 days from the date of the initial demand letter. The debtor shall explain why the debt is incorrect in fact or in law and may support the explanation by affidavit, cancelled checks, or other relevant evidence. The dispute must be submitted to the Office of the Chief Financial Officer via the eBilling system, by email to
FeeBillingInquiries.Resource@nrc.gov,
or by mail to the Office of the Chief Financial Officer at: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, Attn: Chief Financial Officer. For debt disputes related to charges for 10 CFR part 170 fees, the debtor must complete and submit an NRC Form 529 with the required information.
(b)
Notification of receipt.
Following receipt of the dispute, the NRC will acknowledge receipt to the contact person identified by the debtor.
(c)
Dispute review.
The NRC will consider the facts involved in the dispute and, if it considers it necessary, arrange for a conference during which the debtor may present evidence and any arguments in support of the debtor's position. If the debtor's dispute potentially raises an error, the NRC may extend the interest waiver period as described in § 15.37(j) pending a final determination of the existence or amount of the debt.
(d)
Dispute resolution.
If the NRC finds that the dispute has not identified an error, the NRC will notify the dispute contact. If the NRC finds that the dispute has identified an error, the NRC will:
(1) Notify the dispute contact;
(2) Make corrections to the charges or information on the demand letter; and
(3) Issue a revised demand letter.
[86 FR 32169, June 16, 2021]
§ 15.32
Contracting for collection services.
The NRC may contract for collection services in order to recover delinquent debts only if the debts are not subject to the DCIA requirement to transfer debts to Treasury for debt collection services, e.g. debts that are less than 180 days delinquent. However, the NRC retains the authority to resolve disputes, compromise claims, suspend or terminate collection action, and initiate enforced collection through litigation. When appropriate, the NRC shall contract for collection services in accordance with the guidance and standards contained in 31 CFR chapter IX, parts 900-904.
[67 FR 30320, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.33
Collection by administrative offset.
(a)
Application.
(1) The NRC may administratively undertake collection by centralized offset on each claim which is liquidated or certain in amount in accordance with the guidance and standards in 31 CFR Chapter IX, parts 900-904 and 5 U.S.C. 5514.
(2) This section does not apply to:
(i) Debts arising under the Social Security Act, except as provided in 42 U.S.C. 404;
(ii) Payments made under the Social Security Act, except as provided for in 31 U.S.C. 3716(c) (see 31 CFR 285.4, Federal Benefit Offset);
(iii) Debts arising under, or payments made under, the Internal Revenue Code (see 31 CFR 285.2, Tax Refund Offset) or the tariff laws of the United States;
(iv) Offsets against Federal salaries to the extent these standards are inconsistent with regulations published to implement such offsets under 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 31 U.S.C. 3716 (see 5 CFR part 550, subpart K, and 31 CFR 285.7, Federal Salary Offset);
(v) Offsets under 31 U.S.C. 3728 against a judgment obtained by a debtor against the United States;
(vi) Offsets or recoupments under common law, State law, or Federal statutes specifically prohibiting offsets or recoupments of particular types of debts; or
(vii) Offsets in the course of judicial proceedings, including bankruptcy.
(3) Unless otherwise provided for by contract or law, debts or payments that are not subject to administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716 may be collected by administrative offset under the common law or their applicable statutory authority.
(4) Unless otherwise provided by law, the NRC may not initiate administrative offset of payments under the authority of 31 U.S.C. 3716 to collect a debt more than 10 years after the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued, unless facts material to the Government's right to collect the debt were not known and could not reasonably have been known to the NRC, or collection of “approval” fees has been deferred under 10 CFR part 170. If the collection of “approval” fees has been deferred, the ten-year period begins to run at the end of the deferral period.
(5) In bankruptcy cases, the NRC will seek legal advice from its Office of the General Counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code on pending or contemplated collections by offset.
(b)
Mandatory centralized offset.
(1) The NRC is required to refer past due, legally enforceable, nontax debts that are over 120 days delinquent to Treasury for collection by centralized administrative offset. A debt is legally enforceable if there has been a final NRC determination that the debt, in the amount stated, is due and there are no legal bars to collection action. Debts that are less than 120 days delinquent also may be referred to Treasury for this purpose.
(2) The names and taxpayer identifying numbers (TINs) of debtors who owe debts referred to Treasury as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must be compared to the names and TINs on payments to be made by Federal disbursing officials. Federal disbursing officials include disbursing officials of Treasury, the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, other Government corporations, and disbursing officials of the United States designated by Treasury. When the name and TIN of a debtor match the name and TIN of a payee and all other requirements for offset have been met, the payment will be offset to satisfy the debt.
(3) Federal disbursing officials will notify the debtor/payee in writing that an offset has occurred to satisfy, in part or in full, a past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt. The notice must include a description of the type and amount of the payment from which the offset was taken, the amount of offset that was taken, the identity of the creditor agency (NRC) requesting the offset, and a contact point within NRC who will respond to questions regarding the offset
(c)
NRC administrative offset.
(1) Before referring a delinquent debt to Treasury for administrative offset, the NRC adopts the following administrative offset procedures:
(i) Offsets may be initiated only after the debtor has been sent written notice of the type and amount of the debt, the
intention of the NRC to use administrative offset to collect the debt, and an explanation of the debtor's rights under 31 U.S.C. 3716; and
(ii) The debtor has been given—
(A) The opportunity to inspect and copy NRC records related to the debt;
(B) The opportunity for a review within the NRC of the determination of indebtedness; and
(C) The opportunity to make a written agreement to repay the debt.
(iii) The procedures set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may be omitted when—
(A) The offset is in the nature of a recoupment;
(B) The debt arises under a contract as set forth in Cecile Industries, Inc. v. Cheney, 995 F.2d 1052 (Fed. Cir. 1993) (notice and other procedural protections set forth in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) do not supplant or restrict established procedures for contractual offsets accommodated by the Contracts Disputes Act); or
(C) The NRC first learns of the existence of the amount owed by the debtor when there is insufficient time before payment would be made to the debtor/payee to allow for prior notice and an opportunity for review. This applies to non-centralized offsets conducted under paragraph (d) of this section. When prior notice and an opportunity for review are omitted, the NRC shall give the debtor notice and an opportunity for review as soon as practicable and shall refund any money ultimately found not to have been owed to the NRC.
(iv) When an agency previously has given a debtor any of the required notice and review opportunities with respect to a particular debt (31 CFR 901.2), the NRC need not duplicate the notice and review opportunities before administrative offset may be initiated.
(2) When referring delinquent debts to Treasury, the NRC shall certify, in a form acceptable to Treasury, that:
(i) The debt is past due and legally enforceable; and
(ii) The NRC has complied with all due process requirements under 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) and the NRC's regulations.
(3) Payments that are prohibited by law from being offset are exempt from centralized administrative offset. The Treasury shall exempt payments under means-tested programs from centralized administrative offset when requested in writing by the head of the payment-certifying or authorizing agency. Also, the Treasury may exempt other classes of payments from centralized offset upon the written request of the head of the payment-certifying or authorizing agency.
(4) Benefit payments made under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301
et seq.
), part B of the Black Lung Benefits Act (30 U.S.C. 921
et seq.
), and any law administered by the Railroad Retirement Board (other than tier 2 benefits), may be offset only in accordance with Treasury regulations, issued in consultation with the Social Security Administration, the Railroad Retirement Board, and the Office of Management and Budget (31 CFR 285.4).
(5) In accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(f), the Treasury may waive the provisions of the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988 concerning matching agreements and post-match notification and verification (5 U.S.C. 552a(o) and (p)) for centralized administrative offset upon receipt of a certification from the NRC that the due process requirements enumerated in 31 U.S.C. 3716(a) have been met. The certification of a debt in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section will satisfy this requirement. If a waiver is granted, only the Data Integrity Board of the Department of the Treasury is required to oversee any matching activities, in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716(g). This waiver authority does not apply to offsets conducted under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(d)
Non-centralized administrative offset.
(1) Generally, non-centralized administrative offsets are ad hoc case-by-case offsets that NRC would conduct, at its discretion, internally or in cooperation with the agency certifying or authorizing payments to the debtor. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, when centralized administrative offset is not available or appropriate, past due, legally enforceable, nontax delinquent debts may be collected through non-centralized administrative offset. In these cases, the NRC may make a
request directly to a payment-authorizing agency to offset a payment due a debtor to collect a delinquent debt. For example, the NRC will request the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to offset a Federal employee's lump sum payment upon leaving Government service to satisfy an unpaid advance.
(2) Before requesting Treasury to conduct a non-centralized administrative offset, the NRC adopts the following procedures, which provide that such offsets may occur only after:
(i) The debtor has been provided due process as set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(ii) The Treasury has received written certification from NRC that the debtor owes the past due, legally enforceable delinquent debt in the amount stated, and that the NRC has fully complied with its regulations concerning administrative offset.
(3) Treasury shall comply with offset requests by NRC to collect debts owed to the United States, unless the offset would not be in the best interests of the United States with respect to the Treasury's program, or would otherwise be contrary to law. Appropriate use should be made of the cooperative efforts of other agencies in effecting collection by administrative offset.
(4) When collecting multiple debts by non-centralized administrative offset, the NRC will apply the recovered amounts to those debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case, particularly the applicable statute of limitations.
(e)
Requests to OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payment under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
Upon providing OPM written certification that a debtor has been afforded the procedures provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the NRC will request OPM to offset a debtor's anticipated or future benefit payments under the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (Fund) in accordance with regulations codified at 5 CFR 831.1801-831.1808. Upon receipt of such a request, OPM will identify and “flag” a debtor's account in anticipation of the time when the debtor requests, or becomes eligible to receive, payments from the Fund. This will satisfy any requirement that offset be initiated prior to the expiration of the time limitations referenced in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(f)
Review requirements.
(1) For purposes of this section, whenever the NRC is required to afford a debtor a review within the agency, the NRC shall provide the debtor with a reasonable opportunity for an oral hearing in accordance with 10 CFR 16.9, when the debtor requests reconsideration of the debt, and the NRC determines that the question of the indebtedness cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence, for example, when the validity of the debt turns on an issue of credibility or veracity.
(2) Unless otherwise required by law, an oral hearing under this section is not required to be a formal evidentiary hearing, although the NRC should carefully document all significant matters discussed at the hearing.
(3) This section does not require an oral hearing with respect to debt collection systems in which a determination of indebtedness rarely involves issues of credibility or veracity, and the NRC has determined that review of the written record is ordinarily an adequate means to correct prior mistakes.
(4) In those cases in which an oral hearing is not required by this section, the NRC shall accord the debtor a “paper hearing,” that is, a determination of the request for reconsideration based upon a review of the written record.
[67 FR 30320, May 6, 2002, as amended at 79 FR 66602, Nov. 10, 2014]
§ 15.35
Payments.
(a)
Payment in full.
The NRC shall make every effort to collect a claim in full before it becomes delinquent. If a claim is paid in one lump sum after it becomes delinquent, the NRC shall impose charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs as specified in § 15.37.
(b)
Payment by installment.
If a debtor furnishes satisfactory evidence of inability to pay a claim in one lump sum, payment in regular installments may be arranged. Evidence may consist of a
financial statement or a signed statement that the debtor's application for a loan to enable the debtor to pay the claim in full was rejected. Except for a claim described in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and codified in 10 CFR part 16, all installment payment arrangements must be in writing and require the payment of interest and administrative charges.
(1) Installment note forms may be used. The written installment agreement must contain a provision accelerating the debt payment in the event the debtor defaults. If the debtor's financial statement discloses the ownership of assets which are free and clear of liens or security interests, or assets in which the debtor owns an equity, the debtor may be asked to secure the payment of an installment note by executing a Security Agreement and Financing Statement transferring to the United States a security interest in the asset until the debt is discharged.
(2) If the debtor owes more than one debt, the NRC will apply the payment to the various debts in accordance with the best interests of the United States, as determined by the facts and circumstances of the particular case.
(c)
To whom payment is made.
Payment of a debt is to be made payable to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The payments are to be made in U.S. funds using the electronic payment methods accepted at
www.Pay.gov.
Federal agencies may also make payment by Intra Governmental Payment and Collection (IPAC). Payments should be made to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission unless payment is—
(1) Made pursuant to arrangements with DOJ;
(2) Ordered by a Court of the United States; or
(3) Otherwise directed in any other part of this chapter.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 52 FR 31610, Aug. 21, 1987; 54 FR 53316, Dec. 28, 1989; 55 FR 32379, Aug. 9, 1990; 56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991; 63 FR 15743, Apr. 1, 1998; 67 FR 30322, May 6, 2002; 89 FR 51810, June 20, 2024]
§ 15.37
Interest, penalties, and administrative costs.
(a) The NRC shall assess interest, penalties, and administrative costs on debts owed to the United States Government in accordance with the guidance provided under the FCCS, 31 CFR 901.9.
(b) Before assessing any charges on delinquent debt, the NRC shall mail or hand-deliver a written notice to the debtor explaining its requirements concerning these charges under 31 CFR 901.2 and 901.9, except where these charges are included in a contractual or repayment agreement.
(c) Interest begins to accrue from the date on which the initial written demand, advising the debtor of the interest requirements, is first mailed or hand delivered to the debtor unless a different date is specified in a statute, regulation, or contract.
(d) The NRC shall assess interest based upon the rate of the current value of funds to the United States Treasury (the Treasury tax and loan account rate) prescribed for the current quarter and published in the
Federal Register
and the Treasury Financial Manual Bulletins, unless a different rate is prescribed by statute, regulation, or contract.
(e) Interest is computed only on the principal of the debt and the interest rate remains fixed for the duration of the indebtedness, unless a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement.
(f) The NRC shall assess against a debtor charges to cover administrative costs incurred as a result of a delinquent debt. Administrative costs may include costs incurred in obtaining a credit report or in using a private debt collector, to the extent they are attributable to the delinquency.
(g) The NRC shall assess a penalty charge of 6 percent a year on any portion of a debt that is delinquent for more than 90 days. The charge accrues retroactively to the date that the debt became delinquent.
(h) Amounts received by the NRC as partial or installment payments are applied first to outstanding penalty and administrative cost charges, second to accrued interest, and third to outstanding principal.
(i) The NRC shall waive collection of interest on the debt or any portion of the debt which is paid in full within 30 days after the date on which interest began to accrue.
(j) The NRC may waive interest during the period a debt disputed under § 15.31 is under consideration by the NRC. However, this additional waiver is not automatic and must be requested before the expiration of the initial 30-day waiver period. The NRC may grant the additional waiver only when it finds the debtor's dispute potentially raises an error.
(k) The NRC may waive the collection of interest, penalties, and administrative costs if it finds that one or more of the following conditions exist:
(1) The debtor is unable to pay any significant sum toward the debt within a reasonable period of time;
(2) Collection of interest, penalties, and administrative costs will jeopardize collection of the principal of the debt;
(3) The NRC is unable to enforce collection in full within a reasonable time by enforced collection proceedings; or
(4) Collection would be against equity and good conscience or not in the best interests of the United States, including the situation in which an administrative offset or installment payment agreement is in effect.
(l) The NRC is authorized to impose interest and related charges on debts not subject to 31 U.S.C. 3717, in accordance with common law.
[55 FR 32380, Aug. 9, 1990, as amended at 67 FR 30322, May 6, 2002; 86 FR 32169, June 16, 2021]
§ 15.38
Use of credit reports.
The NRC may institute a credit investigation of the debtor at any time following receipt of knowledge of the debt in order to aid NRC in making appropriate determinations as to:
(a) The collection and compromise of a debt;
(b) The collection of interest, penalties, and administrative costs;
(c) The use of administrative offset;
(d) The use of other collection methods; and
(e) The likelihood of collecting the debt.
[55 FR 32380, Aug. 9, 1990]
§ 15.39
Bankruptcy claims.
When the NRC learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, before proceeding with further collection action, the NRC will immediately seek legal advice from its Office of the General Counsel concerning the impact of the Bankruptcy Code on any pending or contemplated collection activities. Unless the NRC determines that the automatic stay imposed at the time of filing pursuant to 11 U.S.C. 362 has been lifted or is no longer in effect, collection activity against the debtor will in most cases stop immediately.
(a) After seeking legal advice from its Office of the General Counsel, a proof of claim usually will be filed with the bankruptcy court or the Trustee.
(b) If the NRC is a secured creditor, it may seek relief from the automatic stay regarding its security, subject to the provisions and requirements of 11 U.S.C. 362.
(c) Offset is stayed in most cases by the automatic stay. However, the NRC will seek legal advice from its Office of the General Counsel to determine whether its payments to the debtor and payments of other agencies available for offset may be frozen by the agency until relief from the automatic stay can be obtained from the bankruptcy court. The NRC will seek legal advice from its Office of the General Counsel to determine if recoupment is available.
[67 FR 30322, May 6, 2002]

# Subpart C—Compromise of a Claim
§ 15.41
When a claim may be compromised.
(a) The NRC may compromise a claim not in excess of the monetary limitation if it has not been referred to DOJ for litigation.
(b) Unless otherwise provided by law, when the principal balance of a debt, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, exceeds $100,000 or any higher amount authorized by the Attorney General, the authority to accept the compromise rests with the DOJ. The NRC will evaluate the compromise offer, using the factors set forth in this part. If an offer to compromise any debt in excess of $100,000 is acceptable to the NRC, the NRC shall
refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the DOJ using a CCLR. The referral must include appropriate financial information and a recommendation for the acceptance of the compromise offer. DOJ approval is not required if the compromise offer is rejected by NRC.
[67 FR 30322, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.43
Reasons for compromising a claim.
A claim may be compromised for one or more of the reasons set forth below:
(a) The full amount cannot be collected because:
(1) The debtor is unable to pay the full amount within a reasonable time; or
(2) The debtor refuses to pay the claim in full and the Government is unable to enforce collection in full within a reasonable time by enforced collection proceedings.
(b) There is a real doubt concerning the Government's ability to prove its case in Court for the full amount claimed, either because of the legal issues involved or a bona fide dispute as to the facts.
(c) The cost of collecting the claim does not justify the enforced collection of the full amount. The NRC shall apply this reason for compromise in accordance with the guidance in 31 CFR 902.2.
(d) The NRC shall determine the debtor's inability to pay, the Government's ability to enforce collection, and the amounts that are acceptable in compromise in accordance with the FCCS, 31 CFR part 902.
(e) Compromises payable in installments are discouraged, but, if necessary, must be in the form of a legally enforceable agreement for the reinstatement of the prior indebtedness less sums paid thereon. The agreement also must provide that in the event of default—
(1) The entire balance of the debt becomes immediately due and payable; and
(2) The Government has the right to enforce any security interest.
[47 FR 7616, Feb. 22, 1982, as amended at 55 FR 32380, Aug. 9, 1990; 67 FR 30322, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.45
Consideration of tax consequences to the Government.
(a) The NRC may accept a percentage of a debtor's profits or stock in a debtor corporation in compromise of a claim. In negotiating a compromise with a business concern, the NRC should consider requiring a waiver of tax-loss-carry-forward and tax-loss-carry-back rights of the debtor. For information on reporting requirements, see § 15.60.
(b) When two or more debtors are jointly and severally liable, the NRC will pursue collection activity against all debtors, as appropriate. The NRC will not attempt to allocate the burden of payment between the debtors but will proceed to liquidate the indebtedness as quickly as possible. The NRC will ensure that a compromise agreement with one debtor does not release the NRC's claim against the remaining debtors. The amount of a compromise with one debtor shall not be considered a precedent or binding in determining the amount that will be required from other debtors jointly and severally liable on the claim.
[67 FR 30322, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.47
Finality of a compromise.
An offer of compromise must be in writing and signed by the debtor. An offer of compromise which is accepted by the NRC is final and conclusive on the debtor and on all officials, agencies, and courts of the United States, unless obtained by fraud, misrepresentation, the presentation of a false claim, or mutual mistake of fact.
§ 15.49
Mutual releases of the debtor and the Government.
(a) In all appropriate instances, a compromise that is accepted by NRC should be implemented by means of a mutual release.
(1) The debtor is released from further non-tax liability on the compromised debt in consideration of payment in full of the compromised amount.
(2) The Government and its officials, past and present, are released and discharged from any and all claims and causes of action arising from the same transaction held by the debtor.
(b) If a mutual release is not executed when a debt is compromised, unless prohibited by law, the debtor is still deemed to have waived any and all claims and causes of action against the Government and its officials related to the transaction giving rise to the compromised debt.
[67 FR 30322, May 6, 2002]

# Subpart D—Suspension or Termination of Collection Action
§ 15.51
When collection action may be suspended or terminated.
The NRC may suspend or terminate collection action on a claim not in excess of the monetary limitation of $100,000 or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, after deducting the amount of partial payments or collections, if any of the debt has not been referred to the DOJ for litigation. If, after deducting the amount of any partial payments or collections, the principal amount of a debt exceeds $100,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative costs, the authority to suspend or terminate rests solely with the DOJ. If the NRC believes that suspension or termination of any debt in excess of $100,000 may be appropriate, the NRC shall refer the debt to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in the DOJ, using the CCLR. The referral should specify the reasons for the NRC's recommendation. If, prior to referral to the DOJ, the NRC determines that a debt is plainly erroneous or clearly without legal merit, the NRC may terminate collection activity, regardless of the amount involved, without obtaining DOJ concurrence.
[67 FR 30323, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.53
Reasons for suspending collection action.
The NRC may suspend collection activity when:
(a) The NRC cannot locate the debtor;
(b) The debtor's financial condition is not expected to improve; or
(c) The debtor has requested a review of the debt or has disputed the debt.
(d) Based on the current financial condition of the debtor, the NRC may suspend collection activity on a debt when the debtor's future prospects justify retention of the debt for periodic review and collection activity and:
(1) The applicable statute of limitations has not expired; or
(2) Future collection can be effected by administrative offset, notwithstanding the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations for litigation of claims, with due regard to the 10-year limitation for administrative offset prescribed by 31 U.S.C. 3716(e)(1); or
(3) The debtor agrees to pay interest on the amount of the debt on which collection will be suspended, and such suspension is likely to enhance the debtor's ability to pay the full amount of the principal of the debt with interest at a later date.
(e)(1) The NRC shall suspend collection activity during the time required for consideration of the debtor's request for review or dispute of the debt, if the statute under which the request is sought prohibits the NRC from collecting the debt during that time.
(2) If the statute under which the request is sought does not prohibit collection activity pending consideration of the request, the NRC may use discretion, on a case-by-case basis, to suspend collection. Further, the NRC ordinarily should suspend collection action upon a request for review or dispute of the debt, if the NRC is prohibited by statute or regulation from issuing a refund of amounts collected prior to NRC consideration of the debtor's request. However, the NRC should not suspend collection when the NRC determines that the request for review or dispute of the debt isfrivolous or was made primarily to delay collection.
(f) When the NRC learns that a bankruptcy petition has been filed with respect to a debtor, in most cases, the collection activity on a debt must be suspended, pursuant to the provisions of 11 U.S.C. 362, 1201, and 1301, unless the NRC can clearly establish that the automatic stay has been lifted or is no longer in effect. The NRC should seek
legal advice immediately from its Office of the General Counsel and, if legally permitted, take the necessary steps to ensure that no funds or money are paid by the NRC to the debtor until relief from the automatic stay is obtained.
[67 FR 30323, May 6, 2002, as amended at 86 FR 32169, June 16, 2021]
§ 15.55
Reasons for terminating collection action.
The NRC may terminate collection activity when:
(a) The NRC is unable to collect any substantial amount through its own efforts or through the efforts of others;
(b) The NRC is unable to locate the debtor;
(c) Costs of collection are anticipated to exceed the amount recoverable,
(d) The debt is legally without merit or enforcement of the debt is barred by any applicable statute of limitations;
(e) The debt cannot be substantiated; or
(f) The debt against the debtor has been discharged in bankruptcy.
[67 FR 30323, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.57
Termination of collection action.
(a) Before terminating collection activity, the NRC should have pursued all appropriate means of collection and determined, based upon the results of the collection activity, that the debt is uncollectible. Termination of collection activity ceases active collection of the debt. The termination of collection activity does not preclude the NRC from retaining a record of the account for purposes of:
(1) Selling the debt, if the Treasury determines that such sale is in the best interests of the United States;
(2) Pursuing collection at a subsequent date in the event there is a change in the debtor's status or a new collection tool becomes available;
(3) Offsetting against future income or assets not available at the time of termination of collection activity; or
(4) Screening future applicants for prior indebtedness.
(b) Generally, the NRC will terminate collection activity on a debt that has been discharged in bankruptcy, regardless of the amount. However, the NRC may continue collection activity, subject to the provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, for any payments provided under a plan of reorganization.
[67 FR 30323, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.59
Exception to termination.
When a significant enforcement policy is involved, or recovery of a judgment is a prerequisite to the imposition of administrative sanctions, the NRC may refer debts for litigation, although termination of collection activity may be appropriate.
[67 FR 30323, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.60
Discharge of indebtedness; reporting requirements.
(a) Before discharging a delinquent debt (also referred to as a close out of the debt), the NRC shall take all appropriate steps to collect the debt in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3711(g), including, as applicable, administrative offset; tax refund offset; Federal salary offset; referral to Treasury, Treasury-designated debt collection centers, or private collection contractors; credit bureau reporting; wage garnishment; litigation; and foreclosure. Discharge of indebtedness is distinct from termination or suspension of collection activity under 10 CFR 15.55 and 15.57 and is governed by the Internal Revenue Code. When collection action on a debt is suspended or terminated, the debt remains delinquent, and further collection action may be pursued at a later date. When the NRC discharges a debt in full or in part, further collection action is prohibited. Therefore, the NRC will make the determination that collection action is no longer warranted before discharging a debt. Before discharging a debt, the NRC must terminate debt collection action.
(b) Section 3711(i), title 31, United States Code, requires agencies to sell a delinquent nontax debt upon termination of collection action if Treasury determines such a sale is in the best interests of the United States. Since the discharge of a debt precludes any further collection action (including the sale of a delinquent debt), the NRC may not discharge a debt until the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3711(i) have been met.
(c) Upon discharge of an indebtedness, the NRC shall report the discharge to the IRS in accordance with the requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6050P and 26 CFR 1.6050P-1. The NRC may request Treasury or a Treasury-designated debt collection center to file a discharge report to the IRS on the NRC's behalf.
(d) When discharging a debt, the NRC shall request that litigation counsel release any liens of record securing the debt.
[67 FR 30323, May 6, 2002]

# Subpart E—Referral of a Claim
§ 15.61
Prompt referral.
(a) The NRC shall promptly refer debts that are subject to aggressive collection activity (as described in subpart B of this part) and that cannot be compromised, or debts on which collection activity cannot be suspended or terminated, to DOJ for litigation. Debts for which the principal amount exceeds $1,000,000, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest and penalties, must be referred to the Civil Division or other division responsible for litigating such debts at DOJ, Washington, DC. Debts for which the principal amount is $1,000,000 or less, or such other amount as the Attorney General may direct, exclusive of interest or penalties, must be referred to the DOJ's Nationwide Central Intake Facility, as required by the CCLR instructions. Debts will be referred as early as possible, consistent with the NRC's aggressive collection activity and well within the one year of the NRC's final determination of the fact and the amount of the debt.
(b) DOJ has exclusive jurisdiction over the debts referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. The NRC shall terminate the use of any administrative collection activities to collect a debt when the debt is referred to DOJ. The NRC shall advise the DOJ of the collection activities it used and the results. The NRC shall refrain from having any contact with the debtor and shall direct all inquiries to DOJ. The NRC shall immediately notify DOJ of any payments credited to the debtor's account after the account has been referred to DOJ. DOJ shall notify NRC in a timely manner of any payments it receives from the debtor.
[67 FR 30324, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.65
Referral of a compromise offer.
The NRC may refer a debtor's firm written offer of compromise, which is substantial in amount, to the Civil Division or other appropriate litigating division in DOJ using a CCLR accompanied by supporting data and particulars concerning the debt.
[67 FR 30324, May 6, 2002]
§ 15.67
Referral to the Department of Justice.
(a) Unless excepted by DOJ, the NRC shall complete the CCLR accompanied by a Certificate of Indebtedness, to refer all administratively uncollectible claims to the DOJ for litigation.
(b) The NRC shall indicate the actions it wishes DOJ to take regarding the referred claim on the CCLR.
(c) Before referring a debt to DOJ for litigation, the NRC shall notify each person determined to be liable for the debt that, unless the debt can be collected administratively, litigation may be initiated. This notification must comply with Executive Order 12988 (3 CFR, 1996 Comp., pp 157-163) and may be given as part of a demand letter or as a separate document.
(d) The NRC shall preserve all files and records that DOJ may need to prove the claim in court.
(e) The NRC may ordinarily not refer for litigation claims of less than $2,500, exclusive of interest, penalties, and administrative charges, or such other amount as the Attorney General shall from time to time prescribe.
(f) The NRC may not refer claims of less than the minimum amount unless:
(1) Litigation to collect a smaller claim is important to ensure compliance with NRC's policies and programs;
(2) The claim is being referred solely to secure a judgment against the debtor, which will be filed as a lien against the debtor's property under 28 U.S.C. 3201 and returned to the NRC for enforcement, or
(3) The debtor has the clear ability to pay the claim, and the Government effectively can enforce payment, with
due regard for the exemptions available to the debtor under state and Federal law and the judicial remedies available to the Government.
[67 FR 30324, May 6, 2002]
Pt. 16

# PART 16—SALARY OFFSET PROCEDURES FOR COLLECTING DEBTS OWED BY FEDERAL EMPLOYEES TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
Sec.
16.1
Purpose and scope.
16.3
Definitions.
16.5
Application.
16.7
Notice requirements.
16.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
16.9
Hearing.
16.11
Written decision.
16.13
Procedures for centralized administrative offset.
16.15
Procedures for internal salary offset.
16.17
Refunds.
16.19
Statute of limitations.
16.21
Non-waiver of rights.
16.23
Interest, penalties, and administrative charges.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, sec. 161 (42 U.S.C. 2201), Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, sec. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); 31 U.S.C. 3711, 3716, 3717, 3718; 5 U.S.C. 5514; Pub. L. 97-365, 96 Stat. 1749; 4 CFR parts 101 through 105; 5 CFR 550.1101 through 550.1108.

# Source:
56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 16.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part provides procedures for the collection by administrative offset of a Federal employee's salary without his/her consent to satisfy certain debts owed to the Federal Government. This part applies to all Federal employees who owe debts to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and to current employees of the NRC who owe debts to other Federal agencies. This part does not apply when the employee consents to recovery from his/her current pay account.
(b) These procedures do not apply to debts or claims arising under:
(1) The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, 26 U.S.C. 1
et seq.;
(2) The tariff laws of the United States; or
(3) Any case where a collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute.
(c) These procedures do not apply to any adjustment to pay arising out of an employee's selection of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less.
(d) These procedures do not preclude the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection action where appropriate under the standards implementing the revised Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS), 31 U.S.C. 3711
et seq.,
31 CFR chapter IX, parts 900 through 904.
(e) This part does not preclude an employee from requesting waiver of an overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716 or in any way questioning the amount or validity of the debt by submitting a subsequent claim to the NRC. This part does not preclude an employee from requesting a waiver pursuant to other statutory provisions applicable to the particular debt being collected.
(f) The NRC is not limited to collection remedies contained in the revised FCCS. The FCCS is not intended to impair common law remedies.
[56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 15743, Apr. 1, 1998; 67 FR 57507, Sept. 11, 2002]
§ 16.3
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Administrative charges
are those amounts assessed by NRC to cover the costs of processing and handling delinquent debts due the Government.
Administrative offset
means withholding money payable by the United States Government to, or held by the Government for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the United States Government.
Agency
means any agency of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Federal Government, including Government corporations.
Centralized salary offset computer matching
describes the computerized process used to match delinquent debt records with Federal salary payment records when the purpose of the match
is to identify Federal employees who owe debt to the Federal Government.
Creditor agency
means the agency to which the debt is owed, including a debt collection center when acting in behalf of a creditor agency in matters pertaining to the collection of a debt.
Debt
and
claim
are used synonymously to refer to an amount of money, funds, or property that has been determined by an agency official to be owed to the United States from any person, organization, or entity, except another Federal agency. For the purposes of administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, the terms
debt
and
claim
include an amount of money, funds, or property owed by a person to a State (including past-due support being enforced by a State), the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Debt collection center
means the Department of the Treasury or other Government agency or division designated by the Secretary of the Treasury with authority to collect debts on behalf of creditor agencies.
Delinquent debt record
refers to the information about a debt that an agency submits to Treasury when the agency refers the debt for collection by offset in accordance with the provision of 31 U.S.C. 3716.
Disbursing official
means an official who has authority to disburse Federal salary payments pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3321 or another law.
Disposable pay
means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of:
(1) Any amount required by law to be withheld;
(2) Amounts properly withheld for Federal, state or local income tax purposes;
(3) Amounts deducted as health insurance premiums;
(4) Amounts deducted as normal retirement contributions, not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage; and
(5) Amounts deducted as normal life insurance premiums not including amounts deducted for supplementary coverage.
Employee
is any individual employed by any agency of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the Federal Government, including Government corporations.
FCCS
means the Federal Claims Collection Standards jointly published by the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Justice at 31 CFR Chapter IX, Parts 900 through 904.
Hearing official
means an individual responsible for conducting any hearing with respect to the existence or amount of a debt claimed or the repayment schedule if not established by written agreement between the employee and the NRC, and who renders a decision on the basis of this hearing.
Paying agency
means the agency that employs the individual who owes the debt and authorizes the payment of his/her current pay.
Salary offset
means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deduction(s) at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of an employee without his or her consent.
Treasury
as used in 10 CFR part 16 means the Department of the Treasury.
Waiver
means the cancellation, remission, forgiveness, or non-recovery of a debt allegedly owed by an employee to an agency as permitted or required by 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, 32 U.S.C. 716, 5 U.S.C. 8346(b), or any other law.
[56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 57507, Sept. 11, 2002]
§ 16.5
Application.
The regulations in this part are to be followed when:
(a) The NRC is owed a debt by an individual currently employed by another Federal agency;
(b) The NRC is owed a debt by an individual who is a current employee of the NRC; or
(c) The NRC employs an individual who owes a debt to another Federal agency.
§ 16.7
Notice requirements.
(a) If the NRC is the creditor agency, deductions will not be made unless the NRC provides the employee with a signed written notice of the debt at least 30 days before salary offset commences. The notice will be delivered in person or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, with receipt returned as proof of delivery.
(b) The written notice must contain:
(1) A statement that the debt is owed and an explanation of its origin, nature, and amount;
(2) The NRC's intention to collect the debt by deducting from the employee's current disposable pay account;
(3) The amount and frequency of the intended deduction (stated as a fixed dollar amount or as a percentage of pay, not to exceed 15 percent of disposable pay) and the intention to continue the deduction until the debt is paid in full or otherwise resolved.
(4) An explanation of interest, penalties, and administrative charges, including a statement that these charges will be assessed unless excused in accordance with the Federal Claims Collection Standards at 4 CFR parts 101-105;
(5) The employee's right to inspect and copy government records pertaining to the debt or, if the employee or his or her representative cannot personally inspect the records, to request and receive a copy of these records;
(6) If not previously provided, the opportunity (under terms agreeable to the NRC) to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or to enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for repayment of the debt in lieu of offset (31 CFR Chapter IX, 901.2). The agreement must be in writing, signed by the employee and the NRC, and documented in the NRC's files.
(7) The employee's right to a hearing conducted by an official arranged for by the NRC (an administrative law judge, or alternatively, a hearing official not under the control of the head of the agency) if a petition is filed as prescribed in § 16.9;
(8) The methods and time period for petitioning for hearings;
(9) A statement that the timely filing of a petition for a hearing will stay the commencement of collection proceedings;
(10) A statement that a final decision on the hearing will be issued not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing unless the employee requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings;
(11) A statement that knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the employee to appropriate disciplinary procedures under chapter 75 of title 5, United States Code and 5 CFR part 752, penalties under the False Claims Act, sections 3729-3731 of title 31, United States Code or other applicable statutory authority, or criminal penalties under section 286, 287, 1001 and 1002 of title 18, United States Code or any other applicable statutory authority;
(12) A statement of other rights and remedies available to the employee under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made; and
(13) Unless there are contractual or statutory provisions to the contrary, a statement that amounts paid on or deducted for the debt which are later waived or found not owed to the United States will be promptly refunded to the employee.
[56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 57508, Sept. 11, 2002]
§ 16.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
This part contains no information collection requirements, and, therefore, is not subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et. seq.
).
[67 FR 57508, Sept. 11, 2002]
§ 16.9
Hearing.
(a)
Request for hearing.
(1) An employee shall file a petition for a hearing in accordance with the instructions outlined in the creditor agency's notice of offset.
(2) If the NRC is the creditor agency, a hearing may be requested by filing a written petition stating why the employee disputes the existence or amount of the debt or the repayment schedule if it was not established by
written agreement between the employee and the NRC. The employee shall sign the petition and fully identify and explain with reasonable specificity all the facts, evidence, and witnesses, if any, which the employee believes support his or her position. The petition for a hearing must be received no later than fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of the notice of offset unless the employee can show that the delay in meeting the deadline date was because of circumstances beyond his or her control or because of failure to receive notice of the time limit (unless otherwise aware of it).
(b)
Hearing procedures.
(1) The hearing will be presided over by a hearing official arranged by NRC (an administrative law judge or, alternatively, a hearing official not under the supervision or control of the head of the agency.)
(2) The hearing must conform to procedures contained in the revised FCCS, 31 CFR Chapter IX, 901.3(e). The burden is on the employee to demonstrate either that the existence or the amount of the debt is in error or that the terms of the repayment schedule would result in undue financial hardship or would be against equity and good conscience.
(3) An employee is entitled to representation of his or her choice at any stage of the proceeding. NRC attorneys may not be provided as representatives for the debtor. The NRC will not compensate the debtor for representation expenses, including hourly fees for attorneys, travel expenses, and costs for reproducing documents.
[56 FR 51830, Oct. 16, 1991, as amended at 67 FR 57508, Sept. 11, 2002]
§ 16.11
Written decision.
(a) The hearing official will issue a written opinion no later than 60 days after the hearing.
(b) The written opinion must include:
(1) A statement of the facts presented to demonstrate the nature and origin of the alleged debt;
(2) The hearing official's analysis, findings, and conclusions;
(3) The amount and validity of the debt; and
(4) The repayment schedule, where appropriate.
§ 16.13
Procedures for centralized administrative offset.
(a) The NRC must notify Treasury of all debts that are delinquent as defined in the FCCS (over 180 days old) so that recovery may be made by centralized administrative offset. This includes those debts the NRC seeks to recover from the pay account of an employee of another agency via salary offset. The Treasury and other Federal disbursing officials will match payments, including Federal salary payments, against such debts. When a match occurs, and all the requirements for offset have been met, the payments will be offset to collect the debt. Prior to offset of the pay account of an employee, the NRC must comply with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 5514, 5 CFR part 550, and 10 CFR part 15. Procedures for notifying Treasury of a debt for purposes of collection by centralized administrative offset are contained in 31 CFR part 285 and 10 CFR 15.33. Procedures for internal salary offset are contained in § 16.15 of this chapter.
(b) When the NRC determines that an employee of another Federal agency owes a delinquent debt to the NRC, the NRC will, as appropriate:
(1) Arrange for a hearing upon the proper petitioning by the employee;
(2) Provide the Federal employee with a notice and an opportunity to dispute the debt as contained in 5 U.S.C. 5514 and 10 CFR 15.26.
(3) Submit the debt to Treasury for centralized administrative offset and certify in writing that the debtor has been afforded the legally required due process notification.
(4) If collection must be made in installments, the NRC must advise the paying agency of the amount or percentage of disposable pay to be collected in each installment.
(c)
Offset amount.
(1) The amount offset from a salary payment under this section shall be the lesser of:
(i) The amount of the debt, including any interest, penalties, and administrative costs; or
(ii) An amount up to 15 percent of the debtor's disposable pay.
(2) Alternatively, the amount offset may be an amount agreed upon, in writing, by the debtor and the NRC.
(3) Offsets will continue until the debt, including any interest, penalties, and administrative costs, is paid in full or otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the NRC.
(d)
Priorities.
(1) A levy pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall take precedence over other deductions under this section.
(2) When a salary payment may be reduced to collect more than one debt, amounts offset under this section will be applied to a debt only after amounts offset have been applied to satisfy past due child support debt assigned to a State pursuant 26 U.S.C. 6402(c) and 31 CFR 285.7(h)(2).
(e)
Notice.
(1) Before offsetting a salary payment, the disbursing official, or the paying agency on behalf of the disbursing official, shall notify the Federal employee in writing of the date that deductions from salary will commence and of the amount of such deductions.
(2)(i) When an offset occurs under this section, the disbursing official, or the paying agency on behalf of the disbursing official, shall notify the Federal employee in writing that an offset has occurred including:
(A) A description of the payment and the amount of the offset taken;
(B) Identification of NRC as the agency requesting the offset; and,
(C) A contact point within the NRC that will handle concerns regarding the offset.
(ii) The information described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(B) and (e)(2)(i)(C) of this section does not need to be provided to the Federal employee when the offset occurs if such information was included in a prior notice from the disbursing official or paying agency.
(3) The disbursing official will advise the NRC of the names, mailing addresses, and taxpayer identifying numbers of the debtors from whom amounts of past-due, legally enforceable debt were collected and of the amounts collected from each debtor. The disbursing official will not advise the NRC of the source of payment from which such amounts were collected.
(f)
Fees.
Agencies that perform centralized salary offset computer matching services may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost of such services. In addition, Treasury or a paying agency acting on behalf of Treasury, may charge a fee sufficient to cover the full cost of implementing the administrative offset program. Treasury may deduct the fees from amounts collected by offset or may bill the NRC. Fees charged for offset shall be based on actual administrative offsets completed.
(g)
Disposition of amounts collected.
The disbursing official conducting the offset will transmit amounts collected for debts, less fees charged under paragraph (f) of this section, to NRC. If an erroneous offset payment is made to the NRC, the disbursing official will notify the NRC that an erroneous offset payment has been made. The disbursing official may deduct the amount of the erroneous offset payment from future amounts payable to the NRC. Alternatively, upon the disbursing official's request, the NRC shall return promptly to the disbursing official or the affected payee an amount equal to the amount of the erroneous payment (without regard to whether any other amounts payable to the agency have been paid). The disbursing official and the NRC shall adjust the debtor records appropriately.
[67 FR 57508, Sept. 11, 2002]
§ 16.15
Procedures for internal salary offset.
(a) Deductions to liquidate an employee's debt will be by the method and in the amount stated in the NRC's notice of intention to offset as provided in § 16.7. Debts will be collected in one lump sum where possible. If the employee is financially unable to pay in one lump sum, collection must be made in installments.
(b) Debts will be collected by deduction at officially established pay intervals from an employee's current pay account unless alternative arrangements for repayment are made.
(c) Installment deductions will be made over a period not greater than the anticipated period of employment. The size of installment deductions must bear a reasonable relationship to the size of the debt and the employee's ability to pay. The deduction for the pay intervals for any period may not exceed 15% of disposable pay unless the
employee has agreed in writing to a deduction of a greater amount.
(d) Offset against any subsequent payment due an employee who retires or resigns or whose employment or period of active duty ends before collection of the debt is completed is provided for in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3716. These payments include but are not limited to final salary payment or lump-sum leave due the employee from the paying agency as of the date of separation to the extent necessary to liquidate the debt.
§ 16.17
Refunds.
(a) The NRC will refund promptly any amounts deducted to satisfy debts owed to the NRC when the debt is waived, found not owed to the NRC, or when directed by an administrative or Judicial order.
(b) The creditor agency will promptly return any amounts deducted by NRC to satisfy debts owed to the creditor agency when the debt is waived, found not owed, or when directed by an administrative or judicial order.
(c) Unless required or permitted by law or contract, refunds under this section may not bear interest.
§ 16.19
Statute of limitations.
If a debt has been outstanding for more than 10 years after the agency's right to collect the debt first accrued, the agency may not collect by salary offset unless facts material to the Government's right to collect were not known and could not reasonably have been known by the NRC official or officials who were charged with the responsibility for discovery and collection of the debts.
§ 16.21
Non-waiver of rights.
An employee's involuntary payment of all or any part of a debt collected under these regulations will not be construed as a waiver of any rights that the employee may have under 5 U.S.C. 5514 or any other provision of contract or law, unless there are statutes or contract(s) to the contrary.
§ 16.23
Interest, penalties, and administrative charges.
Charges may be assessed for interest, penalties, and administrative charges in accordance with the FCCS, 31 CFR Chapter IX, 901.9.
[67 FR 57509, Sept. 11, 2002]
Pt. 19

# PART 19—NOTICES, INSTRUCTIONS AND REPORTS TO WORKERS: INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATIONS
Sec.
19.1
Purpose.
19.2
Scope.
19.3
Definitions.
19.4
Interpretations.
19.5
Communications.
19.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
19.11
Posting of notices to workers.
19.12
Instruction to workers.
19.13
Notifications and reports to individuals.
19.14
Presence of representatives of licensees and regulated entities, and workers during inspections.
19.15
Consultation with workers during inspections.
19.16
Requests by workers for inspections.
19.17
Inspections not warranted; informal review.
19.18
Sequestration of witnesses and exclusion of counsel in interviews conducted under subpoena.
19.20
Employee protection.
19.30
Violations.
19.31
Application for exemptions.
19.32
Discrimination prohibited.
19.40
Criminal penalties.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 53, 63, 81, 103, 104, 161, 223, 234, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2073, 2093, 2111, 2133, 2134, 2201, 2273, 2282, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 211, 401 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5851, 5891); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Source:
38 FR 22217, Aug. 17, 1973, unless otherwise noted.
§ 19.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part establish requirements for notices, instructions, and reports by licensees and regulated entities to individuals participating in NRC-licensed and regulated activities and options available to these individuals in connection with Commission inspections of licensees and regulated entities, and to ascertain compliance with the provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, titles II and IV of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, and regulations, orders, and licenses thereunder. The regulations in this part also establish the rights and
responsibilities of the Commission and individuals during interviews compelled by subpoena as part of agency inspections or investigations under Section 161c of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, on any matter within the Commission's jurisdiction.
[72 FR 49483, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 19.2
Scope.
(a) The regulations in this part apply to:
(1) All persons who receive, possess, use, or transfer material licensed by the NRC under the regulations in parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, 60, 61, 63, 70, or 72 of this chapter, including persons licensed to operate a production or utilization facility under parts 50 or 52 of this chapter, persons licensed to possess power reactor spent fuel in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) under part 72 of this chapter, and in accordance with 10 CFR 76.60 to persons required to obtain a certificate of compliance or an approved compliance plan under part 76 of this chapter;
(2) All applicants for and holders of licenses (including construction permits and early site permits) under parts 50, 52, and 54 of this chapter;
(3) All applicants for and holders of a standard design approval under subpart E of part 52 of this chapter; and
(4) All applicants for a standard design certification under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter, and those (former) applicants whose designs have been certified under that subpart.
(b) The regulations in this part regarding interviews of individuals under subpoena apply to all investigations and inspections within the jurisdiction of the NRC other than those involving NRC employees or NRC contractors. The regulations in this part do not apply to subpoenas issued under 10 CFR 2.702.
[72 FR 49484, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 19.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, (68 Stat. 919) including any amendments thereto.
Commission
means the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Exclusion
means the removal of counsel representing multiple interests from an interview whenever the NRC official conducting the interview has concrete evidence that the presence of the counsel would obstruct and impede the particular investigation or inspection.
License
means a license issued under the regulations in parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, 60, 61, 63, 70, or 72 of this chapter, including licenses to manufacture, construct and/or operate a production or utilization facility under parts 50, 52, or 54 of this chapter.
Licensee
means the holder of such a license.
Regulated activities
means any activity carried on which is under the jurisdiction of the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or any title of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1972, as amended.
Regulated entities
means any individual, person, organization, or corporation that is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the NRC, including (but not limited to) an applicant for or holder of a standard design approval under subpart E of part 52 of this chapter or a standard design certification under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter.
Restricted area
means an area, access to which is limited by the licensee for the purpose of protecting individuals against undue risks from exposure to radiation and radioactive materials. Restricted area does not include areas used as residential quarters, but separate rooms in a residential building may be set apart as a restricted area.
Sequestration
means the separation or isolation of witnesses and their attorneys from other witnesses and their attorneys during an interview conducted as part of an investigation, inspection, or other inquiry.
Worker
means an individual engaged in activities licensed or regulated by the Commission and controlled by a licensee or regulated entity, but does
not include the licensee or regulated entity.
[38 FR 22217, Aug. 17, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8783, Mar. 3, 1975; 53 FR 31680, Aug. 19, 1988; 55 FR 247, Jan. 4, 1990; 56 FR 23470, May 21, 1991; 56 FR 65948, Dec. 19, 1991; 57 FR 61785, Dec. 29, 1992; 58 FR 7736, Feb. 9, 1993; 66 FR 55789, Nov. 2, 2001; 69 FR 76600, Dec. 22, 2004; 72 FR 49484, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 19.4
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 19.5
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified in this part, all communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part should be addressed to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in Appendix D of part 20 of this chapter. Communications, reports, and applications may be delivered in person at the Commission's offices at One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville Pike (first floor), Rockville, Maryland.
[67 FR 67098, Nov. 4, 2002]
§ 19.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0044.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 19.12, 19.13, 19.16, and 19.31.
[62 FR 52185, Oct. 6, 1997, as amended at 85 FR 65661, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 19.11
Posting of notices to workers.
(a) Each licensee (except for a holder of an early site permit under subpart A of part 52 of this chapter, or a holder of a manufacturing license under subpart F of part 52 of this chapter) shall post current copies of the following documents:
(1) The regulations in this part and in part 20 of this chapter;
(2) The license, license conditions, or documents incorporated into a license by reference, and amendments thereto;
(3) The operating procedures applicable to licensed activities;
(4) Any notice of violation involving radiological working conditions, proposed imposition of civil penalty, or order issued pursuant to subpart B of part 2 of this chapter, and any response from the licensee.
(b) Each applicant for and holder of a standard design approval under subpart E of part 52 of this chapter, each applicant for an early site permit under subpart A of part 52 of this chapter, each applicant for a standard design certification under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter, and each applicant for and holder of a manufacturing license under subpart F of part 52 of this chapter shall post:
(1) The regulations in this part;
(2) The operating procedures applicable to the activities regulated by the NRC which are being conducted by the applicant or holder; and
(3) Any notice of violation, proposed imposition of civil penalty, or order issued under subpart B of part 2 of this chapter, and any response from the applicant or holder.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) If posting of a document specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (2) or (3), or (b)(1) or (2) of this section is not practicable, the licensee or regulated entity may post a notice which describes the document and states where it may be examined.
(e)(1) Each licensee, each applicant for a specific license, each applicant for or holder of a standard design approval
under subpart E of part 52 of this chapter, each applicant for an early site permit under subpart A of part 52 of this chapter, and each applicant for a standard design certification under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter shall prominently post NRC Form 3, “Notice to Employees,” dated August 1997. Later versions of NRC Form 3 that supersede the August 1997 version shall replace the previously posted version within 30 days of receiving the revised NRC Form 3 from the Commission.
(2) Additional copies of NRC Form 3 may be obtained by writing to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter, via email to
FORMS.Resource@nrc.gov,
or by visiting the NRC's online library at
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/forms/.
(f) Documents, notices, or forms posted under this section shall appear in a sufficient number of places to permit individuals engaged in NRC-licensed or regulated activities to observe them on the way to or from any particular licensed or regulated activity location to which the document applies, shall be conspicuous, and shall be replaced if defaced or altered.
(g) Commission documents posted under paragraphs (a)(4) or (b)(3) of this section shall be posted within 2 working days after receipt of the documents from the Commission; the licensee's or regulated entity's response, if any, shall be posted within 2 working days after dispatch by the licensee or regulated entity. These documents shall remain posted for a minimum of 5 working days or until action correcting the violation has been completed, whichever is later.
[38 FR 22217, Aug. 17, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8783, Mar. 3, 1975; 47 FR 30454, July 14, 1982; 58 FR 52408, Oct. 8, 1993; 60 FR 24551, May 9, 1995; 61 FR 6764, Feb. 22, 1996; 62 FR 48166, Sept. 15, 1997; 68 FR 58801, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 49484, Aug. 28, 2007; 73 FR 30457, May 28, 2008; 79 FR 66602, Nov. 10, 2014]
§ 19.12
Instruction to workers.
(a) All individuals who in the course of employment are likely to receive in a year an occupational dose in excess of 100 mrem (1 mSv) shall be—
(1) Kept informed of the storage, transfer, or use of radiation and/or radioactive material;
(2) Instructed in the health protection problems associated with exposure to radiation and/or radioactive material, in precautions or procedures to minimize exposure, and in the purposes and functions of protective devices employed;
(3) Instructed in, and required to observe, to the extent within the workers control, the applicable provisions of Commission regulations and licenses for the protection of personnel from exposure to radiation and/or radioactive material;
(4) Instructed of their responsibility to report promptly to the licensee any condition which may lead to or cause a violation of Commission regulations and licenses or unnecessary exposure to radiation and/or radioactive material;
(5) Instructed in the appropriate response to warnings made in the event of any unusual occurrence or malfunction that may involve exposure to radiation and/or radioactive material; and
(6) Advised as to the radiation exposure reports which workers may request pursuant to § 19.13.
(b) In determining those individuals subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, licensees must take into consideration assigned activities during normal and abnormal situations involving exposure to radiation and/or radioactive material which can reasonably be expected to occur during the life of a licensed facility. The extent of these instructions must be commensurate with potential radiological health protection problems present in the work place.
[60 FR 36043, July 13, 1995]
§ 19.13
Notifications and reports to individuals.
(a) Radiation exposure data for an individual, and the results of any measurements, analyses, and calculations of radioactive material deposited or retained in the body of an individual, shall be reported to the individual as
specified in this section. The information reported shall include data and results obtained pursuant to Commission regulations, orders or license conditions, as shown in records maintained by the licensee pursuant to Commission regulations. Each notification and report shall: be in writing; include appropriate identifying data such as the name of the licensee, the name of the individual, the individual's social security number; include the individual's exposure information; and contain the following statement:
This report is furnished to you under the provisions of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulation 10 CFR part 19. You should preserve this report for further reference.
(b) Each licensee shall make dose information available to workers as shown in records maintained by the licensee under the provisions of 10 CFR 20.2106. The licensee shall provide an annual report to each individual monitored under 10 CFR 20.1502 of the dose received in that monitoring year if:
(1) The individual's occupational dose exceeds 1 mSv (100 mrem) TEDE or 1 mSv (100 mrem) to any individual organ or tissue; or
(2) The individual requests his or her annual dose report.
(c)(1) At the request of a worker formerly engaged in licensed activities controlled by the licensee, each licensee shall furnish to the worker a report of the worker's exposure to radiation and/or to radioactive material:
(i) As shown in records maintained by the licensee pursuant to § 20.2106 for each year the worker was required to be monitored under the provisions of § 20.1502; and
(ii) For each year the worker was required to be monitored under the monitoring requirements in effect prior to January 1, 1994.
(2) This report must be furnished within 30 days from the time the request is made or within 30 days after the exposure of the individual has been determined by the licensee, whichever is later. This report must cover the period of time that the worker's activities involved exposure to radiation from radioactive material licensed by the Commission and must include the dates and locations of licensed activities in which the worker participated during this period.
(d) When a licensee is required by §§ 20.2202, 20.2203 or 20.2204 of this chapter to report to the Commission any exposure of an individual to radiation or radioactive material, the licensee shall also provide the individual a report on his or her exposure data included in the report to the Commission. This report must be transmitted no later than the transmittal to the Commission.
(e) At the request of a worker who is terminating employment with the licensee that involved exposure to radiation or radioactive materials, during the current calendar quarter or the current year, each licensee shall provide at termination to each worker, or to the worker's designee, a written report regarding the radiation dose received by that worker from operations of the licensee during the current year or fraction thereof. If the most recent individual monitoring results are not available at that time, a written estimate of the dose must be provided together with a clear indication that this is an estimate.
[38 FR 22217, Aug. 17, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8783, Mar. 3, 1975; 44 FR 32352, June 6, 1979; 58 FR 67658, Dec. 22, 1993; 59 FR 41642, Aug. 15, 1994; 72 FR 68058, Dec. 4, 2007]
§ 19.14
Presence of representatives of licensees and regulated entities, and workers during inspections.
(a) Each licensee, applicant for a license, applicant for or holder of a standard design approval under subpart E of part 52 of this chapter, applicant for an early site permit under subpart A of part 52 of this chapter, and applicant for a standard design certification under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter shall afford to the Commission at all reasonable times opportunity to inspect materials, activities, facilities, premises, and records under the regulations in this chapter.
(b) During an inspection, Commission inspectors may consult privately with workers as specified in § 19.15. The licensee, regulated entity, or the licensee's or regulated entity's representative may accompany Commission inspectors during other phases of an inspection.
(c) If, at the time of inspection, an individual has been authorized by the workers to represent them during Commission inspections, the licensee or regulated entity shall notify the inspectors of such authorization and shall give the workers' representative an opportunity to accompany the inspectors during the inspection of physical working conditions.
(d) Each workers' representative shall be routinely engaged in NRC-licensed or regulated activities under control of the licensee or regulated entity, and shall have received instructions as specified in § 19.12.
(e) Different representatives of licensees or regulated entities, and workers may accompany the inspectors during different phases of an inspection if there is no resulting interference with the conduct of the inspection. However, only one workers' representative at a time may accompany the inspectors.
(f) With the approval of the licensee or regulated entity, and the workers' representative an individual who is not routinely engaged in licensed or regulated activities under control of the license or regulated entity (for example, a consultant to the licensee, the regulated entity, or the workers' representative), shall be afforded the opportunity to accompany Commission inspectors during the inspection of physical working conditions.
(g) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, Commission inspectors are authorized to refuse to permit accompaniment by any individual who deliberately interferes with a fair and orderly inspection. With regard to areas containing information classified by an agency of the U.S. Government in the interest of national security, an individual who accompanies an inspector may have access to such information only if authorized to do so. With regard to any area containing proprietary information, the workers' representative for that area shall be an individual previously authorized by the licensee or regulated entity to enter that area.
[72 FR 49484, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 72084, Nov. 22, 2011]
§ 19.15
Consultation with workers during inspections.
(a) Commission inspectors may consult privately with workers concerning matters of occupational radiation protection and other matters related to applicable provisions of Commission regulations and licenses to the extent the inspectors deem necessary for the conduct of an effective and thorough inspection.
(b) During the course of an inspection any worker may bring privately to the attention of the inspectors, either orally or in writing, any past or present condition which he has reason to believe may have contributed to or caused any violation of the act, the regulations in this chapter, or license condition, or any unnecessary exposure of an individual to radiation from licensed radioactive material under the licensee's control. Any such notice in writing shall comply with the requirements of § 19.16(a).
(c) The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section shall not be interpreted as authorization to disregard instructions pursuant to § 19.12.
§ 19.16
Requests by workers for inspections.
(a) Any worker or representative of workers who believes that a violation of the Act, the regulations in this chapter, or license conditions exists or has occurred in license activities with regard to radiological working conditions in which the worker is engaged, may request an inspection by giving notice of the alleged violation to the Administrator of the appropriate Commission Regional Office, or to Commission inspectors. Any such notice shall be in writing, shall set forth the specific grounds for the notice, and shall be signed by the worker or representative of workers. A copy shall be provided the licensee by the Regional Office Administrator, or the inspector no later than at the time of inspection except that, upon the request of the worker giving such notice, his name and the name of individuals referred to therein shall not appear in such copy or on any record published, released or made available by the Commission, except for good cause shown.
(b) If, upon receipt of such notice, the Regional Office Administrator determines that the complaint meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, and that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the alleged violation exists or has occurred, he shall cause an inspection to be made as soon as practicable, to determine if such alleged violation exists or has occurred. Inspections pursuant to this section need not be limited to matters referred to in the complaint.
[38 FR 22217, Aug. 17, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8783, Mar. 3, 1975; 47 FR 30454, July 14, 1982; 52 FR 31610, Aug. 21, 1987]
§ 19.17
Inspections not warranted; informal review.
(a) If the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office determines, with respect to a complaint under § 19.16, that an inspection is not warranted because there are no reasonable grounds to believe that a violation exists or has occurred, he shall notify the complainant in writing of such determination. The complainant may obtain review of this determination by submitting a written statement of position to the Executive Director for Operations, either by mail to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. The Executive Director for Operations will provide the licensee with a copy of such statement by certified mail, excluding, at the request of the complainant, the name of the complainant. The licensee may submit an opposing written statement of position with the Executive Director for Operations who will provide the complainant with a copy of such statement by certified mail. Upon the request of the complainant, the Executive Director for Operations or his designee may hold an informal conference in which the complainant and the licensee may orally present their views. An informal conference may also be held at the request of the licensee, but disclosure of the identity of the complainant will be made only following receipt of written authorization from the complainant. After considering all written and oral views presented, the Executive Director for Operations shall affirm, modify, or reverse the determination of the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office and furnish the complainant and the licensee a written notification of his decision and the reason therefor.
(b) If the Administrator of the appropriate Regional Office determines that an inspection is not warranted because the requirements of § 19.16(a) have not been met, he shall notify the complainant in writing of such determination. Such determination shall be without prejudice to the filing of a new complaint meeting the requirements of § 19.16(a).
[38 FR 22217, Aug. 17, 1973, as amended at 40 FR 8783, Mar. 3, 1975; 52 FR 31610, Aug. 21, 1987; 67 FR 77652, Dec. 19, 2002; 68 FR 58801, Oct. 10, 2003; 74 FR 62680, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74978, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 19.18
Sequestration of witnesses and exclusion of counsel in interviews conducted under subpoena.
(a) All witnesses compelled by subpoena to submit to agency interviews shall be sequestered unless the official conducting the interviews permits otherwise.
(b) Any witness compelled by subpoena to appear at an interview during an agency inquiry may be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel of his or her choice. However, when the agency official conducting the inquiry determines, after consultation with the Office of the General
Counsel, that the agency has concrete evidence that the presence of an attorney representing multiple interests would obstruct and impede the investigation or inspection, the agency official may prohibit that counsel from being present during the interview.
(c) The interviewing official is to provide a witness whose counsel has been excluded under paragraph (b) of this section and the witness's counsel a written statement of the reasons supporting the decision to exclude. This statement, which must be provided no later than five working days after exclusion, must explain the basis for the counsel's exclusion. This statement must also advise the witness of the witness' right to appeal the exclusion decision and obtain an automatic stay of the effectiveness of the subpoena by filing a motion to quash the subpoena with the Commission within five days of receipt of this written statement.
(d) Within five days after receipt of the written notification required in paragraph (c) of this section, a witness whose counsel has been excluded may appeal the exclusion decision by filing a motion to quash the subpoena with the Commission. The filing of the motion to quash will stay the effectiveness of the subpoena pending the Commission's decision on the motion.
(e) If a witness' counsel is excluded under paragraph (b) of this section, the interview may, at the witness' request, either proceed without counsel or be delayed for a reasonable period of time to permit the retention of new counsel. The interview may also be rescheduled to a subsequent date established by the NRC, although the interview shall not be rescheduled by the NRC to a date that precedes the expiration of the time provided under § 19.18(d) for appeal of the exclusion of counsel, unless the witness consents to an earlier date.
[55 FR 247, Jan. 4, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 65948, Dec. 19, 1991; 57 FR 61785, Dec. 29, 1992]
§ 19.20
Employee protection.
Employment discrimination by a licensee, a holder of a certificate of compliance issued under part 76 of this chapter or regulated entity subject to the requirements in this part as delineated in § 19.2(a), or a contractor or subcontractor of a licensee, a holder of a certificate of compliance issued under part 76 of this chapter, or regulated entity subject to the requirements in this part as delineated in § 19.2(a), against an employee for engaging in protected activities under this part or parts 30, 40, 50, 52, 54, 60, 61, 63, 70, 72, 76, or 150 of this chapter is prohibited.
[72 FR 49485, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 19.30
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[57 FR 55071, Nov. 24, 1992]
§ 19.31
Application for exemptions.
The Commission may, upon application by any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant such exemptions from the requirements of the regulations in this part as it determines are authorized by law, will not result in undue hazard to life and property.
[72 FR 49485, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 19.32
Discrimination prohibited.
No person shall on the grounds of sex be excluded from participation in, be
denied a license, be denied the benefit of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity carried on which is under the jurisdiction of the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or under any title of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended. This provision will be enforced through agency provisions and regulations similar to those already established, with respect to racial and other discrimination, under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. This remedy is not exclusive, however, and will not prejudice or cut off any other legal remedies available to a discriminatee.
[72 FR 49485, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 19.40
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 19 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 19 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 19.1, 19.2, 19.3, 19.4, 19.5, 19.8, 19.16, 19.17, 19.18, 19.30, 19.31, and 19.40.
[57 FR 55071, Nov. 24, 1992]
Pt. 20

# PART 20—STANDARDS FOR PROTECTION AGAINST RADIATION

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
20.1001
Purpose.
20.1002
Scope.
20.1003
Definitions.
20.1004
Units of radiation dose.
20.1005
Units of radioactivity.
20.1006
Interpretations.
20.1007
Communications.
20.1008
Implementation.
20.1009
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.

# Subpart B—Radiation Protection Programs
20.1101
Radiation protection programs.

# Subpart C—Occupational Dose Limits
20.1201
Occupational dose limits for adults.
20.1202
Compliance with requirements for summation of external and internal doses.
20.1203
Determination of external dose from airborne radioactive material.
20.1204
Determination of internal exposure.
20.1205
[Reserved]
20.1206
Planned special exposures.
20.1207
Occupational dose limits for minors.
20.1208
Dose equivalent to an embryo/fetus.

# Subpart D—Radiation Dose Limits for Individual Members of the Public
20.1301
Dose limits for individual members of the public.
20.1302
Compliance with dose limits for individual members of the public.

# Subpart E—Radiological Criteria for License Termination.
20.1401
General provisions and scope.
20.1402
Radiological criteria for unrestricted use.
20.1403
Criteria for license termination under restricted conditions.
20.1404
Alternate criteria for license termination.
20.1405
Public notification and public participation.
20.1406
Minimization of contamination.

# Subpart F—Surveys and Monitoring
20.1501
General.
20.1502
Conditions requiring individual monitoring of external and internal occupational dose.

# Subpart G—Control of Exposure From External Sources in Restricted Areas
20.1601
Control of access to high radiation areas.
20.1602
Control of access to very high radiation areas.

# Subpart H—Respiratory Protection and Controls To Restrict Internal Exposure in Restricted Areas
20.1701
Use of process or other engineering controls.
20.1702
Use of other controls.
20.1703
Use of individual respiratory protection equipment.
20.1704
Further restrictions on the use of respiratory protection equipment.
20.1705
Application for use of higher assigned protection factors.

# Subpart I—Storage and Control of Licensed Material
20.1801
Security of stored material.
20.1802
Control of material not in storage.

# Subpart J—Precautionary Procedures
20.1901
Caution signs.
20.1902
Posting requirements.
20.1903
Exceptions to posting requirements.
20.1904
Labeling containers.
20.1905
Exemptions to labeling requirements.
20.1906
Procedures for receiving and opening packages.

# Subpart K—Waste Disposal
20.2001
General requirements.
20.2002
Method for obtaining approval of proposed disposal procedures.
20.2003
Disposal by release into sanitary sewerage.
20.2004
Treatment or disposal by incineration.
20.2005
Disposal of specific wastes.
20.2006
Transfer for disposal and manifests.
20.2007
Compliance with environmental and health protection regulations.
20.2008
Disposal of certain byproduct material.

# Subpart L—Records
20.2101
General provisions.
20.2102
Records of radiation protection programs.
20.2103
Records of surveys.
20.2104
Determination of prior occupational dose.
20.2105
Records of planned special exposures.
20.2106
Records of individual monitoring results.
20.2107
Records of dose to individual members of the public.
20.2108
Records of waste disposal.
20.2109
[Reserved]
20.2110
Form of records.

# Subpart M—Reports
20.2201
Reports of theft or loss of licensed material.
20.2202
Notification of incidents.
20.2203
Reports of exposures, radiation levels, and concentrations of radioactive material exceeding the constraints or limits.
20.2204
Reports of planned special exposures.
20.2205
Reports to individuals of exceeding dose limits.
20.2206
Reports of individual monitoring.
20.2207
Reports of transactions involving nationally tracked sources.

# Subpart N—Exemptions and Additional Requirements
20.2301
Applications for exemptions.
20.2302
Additional requirements.

# Subpart O—Enforcement
20.2401
Violations.
20.2402
Criminal penalties.
Appendix A to Part 20—Assigned Protection Factors for Respirators
Appendix B to Part 20—Annual Limits on Intake (ALIs) and Derived Air Concentrations (DACs) of Radionuclides for Occupational Exposure; Effluent Concentrations; Concentrations for Release to Sewerage
Appendix C to Part 20—Quantities of Licensed Material Requiring Labeling
Appendix D to Part 20—United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Offices
Appendix E to Part 20—Nationally Tracked Source Thresholds
Appendix F to Part 20 [Reserved]
Appendix G to Part 20—Requirements for Transfers of Low-Level Radioactive Waste Intended for Disposal at Licensed Land Disposal Facilities and Manifests

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 11, 53, 63, 65, 81, 103, 104, 161, 170H, 182, 186, 223, 234, 274, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2014, 2073, 2093, 2095, 2111, 2133, 2134, 2201, 2210h, 2232, 2236, 2273, 2282, 2021, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842); Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985, sec. 2 (42 U.S.C. 2021b); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
56 FR 23391, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1001
Purpose.
(a) The regulations in this part establish standards for protection against ionizing radiation resulting from activities conducted under licenses issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. These regulations are issued under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended.
(b) It is the purpose of the regulations in this part to control the receipt, possession, use, transfer, and disposal of licensed material by any licensee in such a manner that the total dose to an individual (including doses resulting from licensed and unlicensed
radioactive material and from radiation sources other than background radiation) does not exceed the standards for protection against radiation prescribed in the regulations in this part. However, nothing in this part shall be construed as limiting actions that may be necessary to protect health and safety.
§ 20.1002
Scope.
The regulations in this part apply to persons licensed by the Commission to receive, possess, use, transfer, or dispose of byproduct, source, or special nuclear material or to operate a production or utilization facility under parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, 50, 52, 60, 61, 63, 70, or 72 of this chapter, and in accordance with 10 CFR 76.60 to persons required to obtain a certificate of compliance or an approved compliance plan under part 76 of this chapter. The limits in this part do not apply to doses due to background radiation, to exposure of patients to radiation for the purpose of medical diagnosis or therapy, to exposure from individuals administered radioactive material and released under § 35.75, or to exposure from voluntary participation in medical research programs.
[72 FR 49485, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 20.1003
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Absorbed dose
means the energy imparted by ionizing radiation per unit mass of irradiated material. The units of absorbed dose are the rad and the gray (Gy).
Accelerator-produced radioactive material
means any material made radioactive by a particle accelerator.
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
), as amended.
Activity
is the rate of disintegration (transformation) or decay of radioactive material. The units of activity are the curie (Ci) and the becquerel (Bq).
Adult
means an individual 18 or more years of age.
Airborne radioactive material
means radioactive material dispersed in the air in the form of dusts, fumes, particulates, mists, vapors, or gases.
Airborne radioactivity area
means a room, enclosure, or area in which airborne radioactive materials, composed wholly or partly of licensed material, exist in concentrations—
(1) In excess of the derived air concentrations (DACs) specified in appendix B, to §§ 20.1001-20.2401, or
(2) To such a degree that an individual present in the area without respiratory protective equipment could exceed, during the hours an individual is present in a week, an intake of 0.6 percent of the annual limit on intake (ALI) or 12 DAC-hours.
Air-purifying respirator
means a respirator with an air-purifying filter, cartridge, or canister that removes specific air contaminants by passing ambient air through the air-purifying element.
ALARA
(acronym for “as low as is reasonably achievable”) means making every reasonable effort to maintain exposures to radiation as far below the dose limits in this part as is practical consistent with the purpose for which the licensed activity is undertaken, taking into account the state of technology, the economics of improvements in relation to state of technology, the economics of improvements in relation to benefits to the public health and safety, and other societal and socioeconomic considerations, and in relation to utilization of nuclear energy and licensed materials in the public interest.
Annual limit on intake
(ALI) means the derived limit for the amount of radioactive material taken into the body of an adult worker by inhalation or ingestion in a year. ALI is the smaller value of intake of a given radionuclide in a year by the reference man that would result in a committed effective dose equivalent of 5 rems (0.05 Sv) or a committed dose equivalent of 50 rems (0.5 Sv) to any individual organ or tissue. (ALI values for intake by ingestion and by inhalation of selected radionuclides are given in table 1, columns 1 and 2, of appendix B to §§ 20.1001-20.2401).
Assigned protection factor (APF)
means the expected workplace level of respiratory protection that would be provided by a properly functioning respirator or a class of respirators to properly fitted and trained users. Operationally, the inhaled concentration
can be estimated by dividing the ambient airborne concentration by the APF.
Atmosphere-supplying respirator
means a respirator that supplies the respirator user with breathing air from a source independent of the ambient atmosphere, and includes supplied-air respirators (SARs) and self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) units.
Background radiation
means radiation from cosmic sources; naturally occurring radioactive material, including radon (except as a decay product of source or special nuclear material); and global fallout as it exists in the environment from the testing of nuclear explosive devices or from past nuclear accidents such as Chernobyl that contribute to background radiation and are not under the control of the licensee.
“Background radiation”
does not include radiation from source, byproduct, or special nuclear materials regulated by the Commission.
Bioassay
(radiobioassay) means the determination of kinds, quantities or concentrations, and, in some cases, the locations of radioactive material in the human body, whether by direct measurement (in vivo counting) or by analysis and evaluation of materials excreted or removed from the human body.
Byproduct material
means—
(1) Any radioactive material (except special nuclear material) yielded in, or made radioactive by, exposure to the radiation incident to the process of producing or using special nuclear material;
(2) The tailings or wastes produced by the extraction or concentration of uranium or thorium from ore processed primarily for its source material content, including discrete surface wastes resulting from uranium solution extraction processes. Underground ore bodies depleted by these solution extraction operations do not constitute “byproduct material” within this definition;
(3)(i) Any discrete source of radium-226 that is produced, extracted, or converted after extraction, before, on, or after August 8, 2005, for use for a commercial, medical, or research activity; or
(ii) Any material that—
(A) Has been made radioactive by use of a particle accelerator; and
(B) Is produced, extracted, or converted after extraction, before, on, or after August 8, 2005, for use for a commercial, medical, or research activity; and
(4) Any discrete source of naturally occurring radioactive material, other than source material, that—
(i) The Commission, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the head of any other appropriate Federal agency, determines would pose a threat similar to the threat posed by a discrete source of radium-226 to the public health and safety or the common defense and security; and
(ii) Before, on, or after August 8, 2005, is extracted or converted after extraction for use in a commercial, medical, or research activity.
Class
(or
lung class
or
inhalation class
) means a classification scheme for inhaled material according to its rate of clearance from the pulmonary region of the lung. Materials are classified as D, W, or Y, which applies to a range of clearance half-times: for Class D (Days) of less than 10 days, for Class W (Weeks) from 10 to 100 days, and for Class Y (Years) of greater than 100 days.
Collective dose
is the sum of the individual doses received in a given period of time by a specified population from exposure to a specified source of radiation.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Committed dose equivalent
(H
T,50
) means the dose equivalent to organs or tissues of reference (T) that will be received from an intake of radioactive material by an individual during the 50-year period following the intake.
Committed effective dose equivalent
(H
E,50
) is the sum of the products of the weighting factors applicable to each of the body organs or tissues that are irradiated and the committed dose equivalent to these organs or tissues (H
E,50
= Σ w
T
H
T,50
).
Constraint (dose constraint)
means a value above which specified licensee actions are required.
Controlled area
means an area, outside of a restricted area but inside the site boundary, access to which can be limited by the licensee for any reason.
Critical Group
means the group of individuals reasonably expected to receive the greatest exposure to residual radioactivity for any applicable set of circumstances.
Declared pregnant woman
means a woman who has voluntarily informed the licensee, in writing, of her pregnancy and the estimated date of conception. The declaration remains in effect until the declared pregnant woman withdraws the declaration in writing or is no longer pregnant.
Decommission
means to remove a facility or site safely from service and reduce residual radioactivity to a level that permits—
(1) Release of the property for unrestricted use and termination of the license; or
(2) Release of the property under restricted conditions and the termination of the license.
Deep-dose equivalent
(H
d
), which applies to external whole-body exposure, is the dose equivalent at a tissue depth of 1 cm (1000 mg/cm
2
).
Demand respirator
means an atmosphere-supplying respirator that admits breathing air to the facepiece only when a negative pressure is created inside the facepiece by inhalation.
Department
means the Department of Energy established by the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 565, 42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.
) to the extent that the Department, or its duly authorized representatives, exercises functions formerly vested in the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, its Chairman, members, officers, and components and transferred to the U.S. Energy Research and Development Administration and to the Administrator thereof pursuant to sections 104 (b), (c), and (d) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-438, 88 Stat. 1233 at 1237, 42 U.S.C. 5814) and retransferred to the Secretary of Energy pursuant to section 301(a) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat 565 at 577-578, 42 U.S.C. 7151).
Derived air concentration
(DAC) means the concentration of a given radionuclide in air which, if breathed by the reference man for a working year of 2,000 hours under conditions of light work (inhalation rate 1.2 cubic meters of air per hour), results in an intake of one ALI. DAC values are given in table 1, column 3, of appendix B to §§ 20.1001-20.2401.
Derived air concentration-hour
(DAC-hour) is the product of the concentration of radioactive material in air (expressed as a fraction or multiple of the derived air concentration for each radionuclide) and the time of exposure to that radionuclide, in hours. A licensee may take 2,000 DAC-hours to represent one ALI, equivalent to a committed effective dose equivalent of 5 rems (0.05 Sv).
Discrete source
means a radionuclide that has been processed so that its concentration within a material has been purposely increased for use for commercial, medical, or research activities.
Disposable respirator
means a respirator for which maintenance is not intended and that is designed to be discarded after excessive breathing resistance, sorbent exhaustion, physical damage, or end-of-service-life renders it unsuitable for use. Examples of this type of respirator are a disposable half-mask respirator or a disposable escape-only self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA).
Distinguishable from background
means that the detectable concentration of a radionuclide is statistically different from the background concentration of that radionuclide in the vicinity of the site or, in the case of structures, in similar materials using adequate measurement technology, survey, and statistical techniques.
Dose
or
radiation dose
is a generic term that means absorbed dose, dose equivalent, effective dose equivalent, committed dose equivalent, committed effective dose equivalent, or total effective dose equivalent, as defined in other paragraphs of this section.
Dose equivalent
(H
T
) means the product of the absorbed dose in tissue, quality factor, and all other necessary
modifying factors at the location of interest. The units of dose equivalent are the rem and sievert (Sv).
Dosimetry processor
means an individual or organization that processes and evaluates individual monitoring equipment in order to determine the radiation dose delivered to the equipment.
Effective dose equivalent
(H
E
) is the sum of the products of the dose equivalent to the organ or tissue (H
T
) and the weighting factors (w
T
) applicable to each of the body organs or tissues that are irradiated (H
E
= Σ w
T
H
T
).
Embryo/fetus
means the developing human organism from conception until the time of birth.
Entrance or access point
means any location through which an individual could gain access to radiation areas or to radioactive materials. This includes entry or exit portals of sufficient size to permit human entry, irrespective of their intended use.
Exposure
means being exposed to ionizing radiation or to radioactive material.
External dose
means that portion of the dose equivalent received from radiation sources outside the body.
Extremity
means hand, elbow, arm below the elbow, foot, knee, or leg below the knee.
Filtering facepiece (dust mask)
means a negative pressure particulate respirator with a filter as an integral part of the facepiece or with the entire facepiece composed of the filtering medium, not equipped with elastomeric sealing surfaces and adjustable straps.
Fit factor
means a quantitative estimate of the fit of a particular respirator to a specific individual, and typically estimates the ratio of the concentration of a substance in ambient air to its concentration inside the respirator when worn.
Fit test
means the use of a protocol to qualitatively or quantitatively evaluate the fit of a respirator on an individual.
Generally applicable environmental radiation standards
means standards issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the authority of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, that impose limits on radiation exposures or levels, or concentrations or quantities of radioactive material, in the general environment outside the boundaries of locations under the control of persons possessing or using radioactive material.
Government agency
means any executive department, commission, independent establishment, corporation wholly or partly owned by the United States of America, which is an instrumentality of the United States, or any board, bureau, division, service, office, officer, authority, administration, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Government.
Gray
[See § 20.1004].
Helmet
means a rigid respiratory inlet covering that also provides head protection against impact and penetration.
High radiation area
means an area, accessible to individuals, in which radiation levels from radiation sources external to the body could result in an individual receiving a dose equivalent in excess of 0.1 rem (1 mSv) in 1 hour at 30 centimeters from the radiation source or 30 centimeters from any surface that the radiation penetrates.
Hood
means a respiratory inlet covering that completely covers the head and neck and may also cover portions of the shoulders and torso.
Individual
means any human being.
Individual monitoring
means—
(1) The assessment of dose equivalent by the use of devices designed to be worn by an individual;
(2) The assessment of committed effective dose equivalent by bioassay (see
Bioassay
) or by determination of the time-weighted air concentrations to which an individual has been exposed, i.e., DAC-hours; or
(3) The assessment of dose equivalent by the use of survey data.
Individual monitoring devices
(individual monitoring equipment) means devices designed to be worn by a single individual for the assessment of dose equivalent such as film badges, thermoluminescence dosimeters (TLDs), pocket ionization chambers, and personal (“lapel”) air sampling devices.
Internal dose
means that portion of the dose equivalent received from radioactive material taken into the body.
Lens dose equivalent (LDE)
applies to the external exposure of the lens of the eye and is taken as the dose equivalent at a tissue depth of 0.3 centimeter (300 mg/cm
2
).
License
means a license issued under the regulations in parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, 50, 60, 61, 63, 70, or 72 of this chapter.
Licensed material
means source material, special nuclear material, or byproduct material received, possessed, used, transferred or disposed of under a general or specific license issued by the Commission.
Licensee
means the holder of a license.
Limits
(dose limits) means the permissible upper bounds of radiation doses.
Loose-fitting facepiece
means a respiratory inlet covering that is designed to form a partial seal with the face.
Lost or missing licensed material
means licensed material whose location is unknown. It includes material that has been shipped but has not reached its destination and whose location cannot be readily traced in the transportation system.
Member of the public
means any individual except when that individual is receiving an occupational dose.
Minor
means an individual less than 18 years of age.
Monitoring
(radiation monitoring, radiation protection monitoring) means the measurement of radiation levels, concentrations, surface area concentrations or quantities of radioactive material and the use of the results of these measurements to evaluate potential exposures and doses.
Nationally tracked source
is a sealed source containing a quantity equal to or greater than Category 1 or Category 2 levels of any radioactive material listed in Appendix E of this part. In this context a sealed source is defined as radioactive material that is sealed in a capsule or closely bonded, in a solid form and which is not exempt from regulatory control. It does not mean material encapsulated solely for disposal, or nuclear material contained in any fuel assembly, subassembly, fuel rod, or fuel pellet. Category 1 nationally tracked sources are those containing radioactive material at a quantity equal to or greater than the Category 1 threshold. Category 2 nationally tracked sources are those containing radioactive material at a quantity equal to or greater than the Category 2 threshold but less than the Category 1 threshold.
Negative pressure respirator (tight fitting)
means a respirator in which the air pressure inside the facepiece is negative during inhalation with respect to the ambient air pressure outside the respirator.
Nonstochastic effect
means health effects, the severity of which varies with the dose and for which a threshold is believed to exist. Radiation-induced cataract formation is an example of a nonstochastic effect (also called a deterministic effect).
NRC
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Occupational dose
means the dose received by an individual in the course of employment in which the individual's assigned duties involve exposure to radiation or to radioactive material from licensed and unlicensed sources of radiation, whether in the possession of the licensee or other person. Occupational dose does not include doses received from background radiation, from any medical administration the individual has received, from exposure to individuals administered radioactive material and released under § 35.75, from voluntary participation in medical research programs, or as a member of the public.
Particle accelerator
means any machine capable of accelerating electrons, protons, deuterons, or other charged particles in a vacuum and of discharging the resultant particulate or other radiation into a medium at energies usually in excess of 1 megaelectron volt. For purposes of this definition, “accelerator” is an equivalent term.
Person
means—
(1) Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency other than the Commission or the Department of Energy (except that the Department shall be considered a person within the meaning of the regulations in 10 CFR
chapter I to the extent that its facilities and activities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission under section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1244), the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978 (92 Stat. 3021), the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (96 Stat. 2201), and section 3(b)(2) of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 1842)), any State or any political subdivision of or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and
(2) Any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
Planned special exposure
means an infrequent exposure to radiation, separate from and in addition to the annual dose limits.
Positive pressure respirator
means a respirator in which the pressure inside the respiratory inlet covering exceeds the ambient air pressure outside the respirator.
Powered air-purifying respirator (PAPR)
means an air-purifying respirator that uses a blower to force the ambient air through air-purifying elements to the inlet covering.
Pressure demand respirator
means a positive pressure atmosphere-supplying respirator that admits breathing air to the facepiece when the positive pressure is reduced inside the facepiece by inhalation.
Public dose
means the dose received by a member of the public from exposure to radiation or to radioactive material released by a licensee, or to any other source of radiation under the control of a licensee. Public dose does not include occupational dose or doses received from background radiation, from any medical administration the individual has received, from exposure to individuals administered radioactive material and released under § 35.75, or from voluntary participation in medical research programs.
Qualitative fit test (QLFT)
means a pass/fail fit test to assess the adequacy of respirator fit that relies on the individual's response to the test agent.
Quality Factor (Q)
means the modifying factor (listed in tables 1004(b).1 and 1004(b).2 of § 20.1004) that is used to derive dose equivalent from absorbed dose.
Quantitative fit test (QNFT)
means an assessment of the adequacy of respirator fit by numerically measuring the amount of leakage into the respirator.
Quarter
means a period of time equal to one-fourth of the year observed by the licensee (approximately 13 consective weeks), providing that the beginning of the first quarter in a year coincides with the starting date of the year and that no day is omitted or duplicated in consecutive quarters.
Rad
(See § 20.1004).
Radiation
(ionizing radiation) means alpha particles, beta particles, gamma rays, x-rays, neutrons, high-speed electrons, high-speed protons, and other particles capable of producing ions. Radiation, as used in this part, does not include non-ionizing radiation, such as radio- or microwaves, or visible, infrared, or ultraviolet light.
Radiation area
means an area, accessible to individuals, in which radiation levels could result in an individual receiving a dose equivalent in excess of 0.005 rem (0.05 mSv) in 1 hour at 30 centimeters from the radiation source or from any surface that the radiation penetrates.
Reference man
means a hypothetical aggregation of human physical and physiological characteristics arrived at by international consensus. These characteristics may be used by researchers and public health workers to standardize results of experiments and to relate biological insult to a common base.
Rem
(See § 20.1004).
Residual radioactivity
means radioactivity in structures, materials, soils, groundwater, and other media at a site resulting from activities under the licensee's control. This includes radioactivity from all licensed and unlicensed sources used by the licensee, but excludes background radiation. It also includes radioactive materials remaining at the site as a result of routine or accidental releases of radioactive material at the site and previous burials at the site, even if those burials were made in accordance with the provisions of 10 CFR part 20.
Respiratory protective device
means an apparatus, such as a respirator, used to reduce the individual's intake of airborne radioactive materials.
Restricted area
means an area, access to which is limited by the licensee for the purpose of protecting individuals against undue risks from exposure to radiation and radioactive materials. Restricted area does not include areas used as residential quarters, but separate rooms in a residential building may be set apart as a restricted area.
Sanitary sewerage
means a system of public sewers for carrying off waste water and refuse, but excluding sewage treatment facilities, septic tanks, and leach fields owned or operated by the licensee.
Self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA)
means an atmosphere-supplying respirator for which the breathing air source is designed to be carried by the user.
Shallow-dose equivalent (H
s
),
which applies to the external exposure of the skin of the whole body or the skin of an extremity, is taken as the dose equivalent at a tissue depth of 0.007 centimeter (7 mg/cm
2
).
Site boundary
means that line beyond which the land or property is not owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the licensee.
Source material
means—
(1) Uranium or thorium or any combination of uranium and thorium in any physical or chemical form; or
(2) Ores that contain, by weight, one-twentieth of 1 percent (0.05 percent), or more, of uranium, thorium, or any combination of uranium and thorium. Source material does not include special nuclear material.
Special nuclear material
means—
(1) Plutonium, uranium-233, uranium enriched in the isotope 233 or in the isotope 235, and any other material that the Commission, pursuant to the provisions of section 51 of the Act, determines to be special nuclear material, but does not include source material; or
(2) Any material artificially enriched by any of the foregoing but does not include source material.
Stochastic effects
means health effects that occur randomly and for which the probability of the effect occurring, rather than its severity, is assumed to be a linear function of dose without threshold. Hereditary effects and cancer incidence are examples of stochastic effects.
Supplied-air respirator (SAR)
or
airline respirator
means an atmosphere-supplying respirator for which the source of breathing air is not designed to be carried by the user.
Survey
means an evaluation of the radiological conditions and potential hazards incident to the production, use, transfer, release, disposal, or presence of radioactive material or other sources of radiation. When appropriate, such an evaluation includes a physical survey of the location of radioactive material and measurements or calculations of levels of radiation, or concentrations or quantities of radioactive material present.
Tight-fitting facepiece
means a respiratory inlet covering that forms a complete seal with the face.
Total Effective Dose Equivalent
(TEDE) means the sum of the effective dose equivalent (for external exposures) and the committed effective dose equivalent (for internal exposures).
Unrestricted area
means an area, access to which is neither limited nor controlled by the licensee.
Uranium fuel cycle
means the operations of milling of uranium ore, chemical conversion of uranium, isotopic enrichment of uranium, fabrication of uranium fuel, generation of electricity by a light-water-cooled nuclear power plant using uranium fuel, and reprocessing of spent uranium fuel to the extent that these activities directly support the production of electrical power for public use. Uranium fuel cycle does not include mining operations, operations at waste disposal sites, transportation of radioactive material in support of these operations, and the reuse of recovered non-uranium special nuclear and byproduct materials from the cycle.
User seal check (fit check)
means an action conducted by the respirator user to determine if the respirator is properly seated to the face. Examples include negative pressure check, positive pressure check, irritant smoke check, or isoamyl acetate check.
Very high radiation area
means an area, accessible to individuals, in which radiation levels from radiation sources external to the body could result in an individual receiving an absorbed dose in excess of 500 rads (5 grays) in 1 hour at 1 meter from a radiation source or 1 meter from any surface that the radiation penetrates.

# Note:
At very high doses received at high dose rates, units of absorbed dose (e.g., rads and grays) are appropriate, rather than units of dose equivalent (e.g., rems and sieverts)).
Waste
means those low-level radioactive wastes containing source, special nuclear, or byproduct material that are acceptable for disposal in a land disposal facility. For the purposes of this definition, low-level radioactive waste means radioactive waste not classified as high-level radioactive waste, transuranic waste, spent nuclear fuel, or byproduct material as defined in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of the definition of Byproduct material set forth in this section.
Week
means 7 consecutive days starting on Sunday.
Weighting factor
w
T
, for an organ or tissue (T) is the proportion of the risk of stochastic effects resulting from irradiation of that organ or tissue to the total risk of stochastic effects when the whole body is irradiated uniformly. For calculating the effective dose equivalent, the values of w
T
are:
Organ Dose Weighting Factors
Organ or tissue
w
T
Gonads
0.25
Breast
0.15
Red bone marrow
0.12
Lung
0.12
Thyroid
0.03
Bone surfaces
0.03
Remainder
1
0.30
Whole Body
2
1.00
1
0.30 results from 0.06 for each of 5 “remainder” organs (excluding the skin and the lens of the eye) that receive the highest doses.
2
For the purpose of weighting the external whole body dose (for adding it to the internal dose), a single weighting factor, w
T
= 1.0, has been specified. The use of other weighting factors for external exposure will be approved on a case-by-case basis until such time as specific guidance is issued.
Whole body
means, for purposes of external exposure, head, trunk (including male gonads), arms above the elbow, or legs above the knee.
Working level
(WL) is any combination of short-lived radon daughters (for radon-222: polonium-218, lead-214, bismuth-214, and polonium-214; and for radon-220: polonium-216, lead-212, bismuth-212, and polonium-212) in 1 liter of air that will result in the ultimate emission of 1.3 × 10
5
MeV of potential alpha particle energy.
Working level month
(WLM) means an exposure to 1 working level for 170 hours (2,000 working hours per year/12 months per year = approximately 170 hours per month).
Year
means the period of time beginning in January used to determine compliance with the provisions of this part. The licensee may change the starting date of the year used to determine compliance by the licensee provided that the change is made at the beginning of the year and that no day is omitted or duplicated in consecutive years.
[56 FR 23391, May 21, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 57878, Dec. 8, 1992; 58 FR 7736, Feb. 9, 1993; 60 FR 36043, July 13, 1995; 60 FR 48625, Sept. 20, 1995; 61 FR 65127, Dec. 10, 1996; 62 FR 4133, Jan. 29, 1997; 62 FR 39087, July 21, 1997; 63 FR 39481, July 23, 1998; 64 FR 54556, Oct. 7, 1999; 66 FR 55789, Nov. 2, 2001; 67 FR 16304, Apr. 5, 2002; 67 FR 20370, Apr. 24, 2002; 67 FR 62872, Oct. 9, 2002; 71 FR 65707, Nov. 8, 2006; 72 FR 55921, Oct. 1, 2007; 72 FR 68058, Dec. 4, 2007; 74 FR 62680, Dec. 1, 2009]
§ 20.1004
Units of radiation dose.
(a)
Definitions.
As used in this part, the units of radiation dose are:
Gray
(Gy) is the SI unit of absorbed dose. One gray is equal to an absorbed dose of 1 Joule/kilogram (100 rads).
Rad
is the special unit of absorbed dose. One rad is equal to an absorbed dose of 100 ergs/gram or 0.01 joule/kilogram (0.01 gray).
Rem
is the special unit of any of the quantities expressed as dose equivalent. The dose equivalent in rems is equal to the absorbed dose in rads multiplied by the quality factor (1 rem = 0.01 sievert).
Sievert
is the SI unit of any of the quantities expressed as dose equivalent. The dose equivalent in sieverts is equal to the absorbed dose in grays multiplied by the quality factor (1 Sv = 100 rems).
(b) As used in this part, the quality factors for converting absorbed dose to dose equivalent are shown in table 1004(b).1.
Table 1004(
b
).1—Quality Factors and Absorbed Dose Equivalencies
Type of radiation
Quality factor
(Q)
Absorbed dose equal to a unit dose equivalent
a
X-, gamma, or beta radiation
1
1
Alpha particles, multiple-charged particles, fission fragments and heavy particles of unknown charge
20
0.05
Neutrons of unknown energy
10
0.1
High-energy protons
10
0.1
a
Absorbed dose in rad equal to 1 rem or the absorbed dose in gray equal to 1 sievert.
(c) If it is more convenient to measure the neutron fluence rate than to determine the neutron dose equivalent rate in rems per hour or sieverts per hour, as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, 1 rem (0.01 Sv) of neutron radiation of unknown energies may, for purposes of the regulations in this part, be assumed to result from a total fluence of 25 million neutrons per square centimeter incident upon the body. If sufficient information exists to estimate the approximate energy distribution of the neutrons, the licensee may use the fluence rate per unit dose equivalent or the appropriate Q value from table 1004(b).2 to convert a measured tissue dose in rads to dose equivalent in rems.
Table 1004(
b
).2—Mean Quality Factors, Q, and Fluence per Unit Dose Equivalent for Monoenergetic Neutrons
Neutron energy (MeV)
Quality factor
a
(Q)
Fluence per unit dose equivalent
b
(neutrons cm
−2
rem
−1
)
(thermal)
2.5 × 10
−8
2
980 × 10
6
1 × 10
−7
2
980 × 10
6
1 × 10
−6
2
810 × 10
6
1 × 10
−5
2
810 × 10
6
1 × 10
−4
2
840 × 10
6
1 × 10
−3
2
980 × 10
6
1 × 10
−2
2.5
1010 × 10
6
1 × 10
−1
7.5
170 × 10
6
5 × 10
−1
11
39 × 10
6
1
11
27 × 10
6
2.5
9
29 × 10
6
5
8
23 × 10
6
7
7
24 × 10
6
10
6.5
24 × 10
6
14
7.5
17 × 10
6
20
8
16 × 10
6
40
7
14 × 10
6
60
5.5
16 × 10
6
1 × 10
2
4
20 × 10
6
2 × 10
2
3.5
19 × 10
6
3 × 10
2
3.5
16 × 10
6
4 × 10
2
3.5
14 × 10
6
a
Value of quality factor (Q) at the point where the dose equivalent is maximum in a 30-cm diameter cylinder tissue-equivalent phantom.
b
Monoenergetic neutrons incident normally on a 30-cm diameter cylinder tissue-equivalent phantom.
§ 20.1005
Units of radioactivity.
For the purposes of this part, activity is expressed in the special unit of curies (Ci) or in the SI unit of becquerels (Bq), or their multiples, or disintegrations (transformations) per unit of time.
(a) One becquerel = 1 disintegration per second (s
−1
).
(b) One curie = 3.7 × 10
10
disintegrations per second = 3.7 × 10
10
becquerels = 2.22 × 10
12
disintegrations per minute.
[56 FR 23391, May 21, 1991; 56 FR 61352, Dec. 3, 1991]
§ 20.1006
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by an officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 20.1007
Communications.
Unless otherwise specified, communications or reports concerning the regulations in this part should be addressed to the Executive Director for Operations (EDO), and sent either by mail to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web
site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
[68 FR 58801, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 62680, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74979, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 20.1008
Implementation.
(a) [Reserved]
(b) The applicable section of §§ 20.1001-20.2402 must be used in lieu of requirements in the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994
1
that are cited in license conditions or technical specifications, except as specified in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section. If the requirements of this part are more restrictive than the existing license condition, then the licensee shall comply with this part unless exempted by paragraph (d) of this section.
1
See §§ 20.1-20.602 codified as of January 1, 1993.
(c) Any existing license condition or technical specification that is more restrictive than a requirement in §§ 20.1001-20.2402 remains in force until there is a technical specification change, license amendment, or license renewal.
(d) If a license condition or technical specification exempted a licensee from a requirement in the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994,
1
it continues to exempt a licensee from the corresponding provision of §§ 20.1001-20.2402.
(e) If a license condition cites provisions in requirements in the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994
1
and there are no corresponding provisions in §§ 20.1001-20.2402, then the license condition remains in force until there is a technical specification change, license amendment, or license renewal that modifies or removes this condition.
[59 FR 41643, Aug. 15, 1994]
§ 20.1009
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0014.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 20.1003, 20.1101, 20.1202, 20.1203, 20.1204, 20.1206, 20.1208, 20.1301, 20.1302, 20.1403, 20.1404, 20.1406, 20.1501, 20.1601, 20.1703, 20.1901, 20.1904, 20.1905, 20.1906, 20.2002, 20.2004, 20.2005, 20.2006, 20.2102, 20.2103, 20.2104, 20.2105, 20.2106, 20.2107, 20.2108, 20.2110, 20.2201, 20.2202, 20.2203, 20.2204, 20.2205, 20.2206, 20.2207, 20.2301, and appendix G to this part.
(c) This part contains information collection requirements in addition to those approved under the control number specified in paragraph (a) of this section. These information collection requirements and the control numbers under which they are approved are as follows:
(1) In § 20.2104, NRC Form 4 is approved under control number 3150-0005.
(2) In §§ 20.2106 and 20.2206, NRC Form 5 is approved under control number 3150-0006.
(3) In § 20.2006 and appendix G to 10 CFR part 20, NRC Form 540 and 540A is approved under control number 3150-0164.
(4) In § 20.2006 and appendix G to 10 CFR part 20, NRC Form 541 and 541A is approved under control number 3150-0166.
(5) In § 20.2006 and appendix G to 10 CFR part 20, NRC Form 542 and 542A is approved under control number 3150-0165.
(6) In § 20.2207, NRC Form 748 is approved under control number 3150-0202.
[63 FR 50128, Sept. 21, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 67099, Nov. 4, 2002; 71 FR 65707, Nov. 8, 2006; 72 FR 55922, Oct. 1, 2007; 77 FR 39905, July 6, 2012]

# Subpart B—Radiation Protection Programs

# Source:
56 FR 23396, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1101
Radiation protection programs.
(a) Each licensee shall develop, document, and implement a radiation protection program commensurate with the scope and extent of licensed activities and sufficient to ensure compliance with the provisions of this part. (See § 20.2102 for recordkeeping requirements relating to these programs.)
(b) The licensee shall use, to the extent practical, procedures and engineering controls based upon sound radiation protection principles to achieve occupational doses and doses to members of the public that are as low as is reasonably achievable (ALARA).
(c) The licensee shall periodically (at least annually) review the radiation protection program content and implementation.
(d) To implement the ALARA requirements of § 20.1101 (b), and notwithstanding the requirements in § 20.1301 of this part, a constraint on air emissions of radioactive material to the environment, excluding Radon-222 and its daughters, shall be established by licensees other than those subject to § 50.34a, such that the individual member of the public likely to receive the highest dose will not be expected to receive a total effective dose equivalent in excess of 10 mrem (0.1 mSv) per year from these emissions. If a licensee subject to this requirement exceeds this dose constraint, the licensee shall report the exceedance as provided in § 20.2203 and promptly take appropriate corrective action to ensure against recurrence.
[56 FR 23396, May 21, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 65127, Dec. 10, 1996; 63 FR 39482, July 23, 1998]

# Subpart C—Occupational Dose Limits

# Source:
56 FR 23396, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1201
Occupational dose limits for adults.
(a) The licensee shall control the occupational dose to individual adults, except for planned special exposures under § 20.1206, to the following dose limits.
(1) An annual limit, which is the more limiting of—
(i) The total effective dose equivalent being equal to 5 rems (0.05 Sv); or
(ii) The sum of the deep-dose equivalent and the committed dose equivalent to any individual organ or tissue other than the lens of the eye being equal to 50 rems (0.5 Sv).
(2) The annual limits to the lens of the eye, to the skin of the whole body, and to the skin of the extremities, which are:
(i) A lens dose equivalent of 15 rems (0.15 Sv), and
(ii) A shallow-dose equivalent of 50 rem (0.5 Sv) to the skin of the whole body or to the skin of any extremity.
(b) Doses received in excess of the annual limits, including doses received during accidents, emergencies, and planned special exposures, must be subtracted from the limits for planned special exposures that the individual may receive during the current year (see § 20.1206(e)(1)) and during the individual's lifetime (see § 20.1206(e)(2)).
(c) When the external exposure is determined by measurement with an external personal monitoring device, the deep-dose equivalent must be used in place of the effective dose equivalent, unless the effective dose equivalent is determined by a dosimetry method approved by the NRC. The assigned deep-dose equivalent must be for the part of the body receiving the highest exposure. The assigned shallow-dose equivalent must be the dose averaged over the contiguous 10 square centimeters of skin receiving the highest exposure. The deep-dose equivalent, lens-dose equivalent, and shallow-dose equivalent may be assessed from surveys or other radiation measurements for the purpose of demonstrating compliance with the occupational dose limits, if the individual monitoring device was not in the region of highest potential exposure, or the results of individual monitoring are unavailable.
(d) Derived air concentration (DAC) and annual limit on intake (ALI) values are presented in table 1 of appendix B to part 20 and may be used to determine the individual's dose (see § 20.2106) and to demonstrate compliance with the occupational dose limits.
(e) In addition to the annual dose limits, the licensee shall limit the soluble uranium intake by an individual to 10 milligrams in a week in consideration of chemical toxicity (see footnote 3 of appendix B to part 20).
(f) The licensee shall reduce the dose that an individual may be allowed to receive in the current year by the amount of occupational dose received while employed by any other person (see § 20.2104(e)).
[56 FR 23396, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995; 63 FR 39482, July 23, 1998; 67 FR 16304, Apr. 5, 2002; 72 FR 68059, Dec. 4, 2007]
§ 20.1202
Compliance with requirements for summation of external and internal doses.
(a) If the licensee is required to monitor under both §§ 20.1502 (a) and (b), the licensee shall demonstrate compliance with the dose limits by summing external and internal doses. If the licensee is required to monitor only under § 20.1502(a) or only under § 20.1502(b), then summation is not required to demonstrate compliance with the dose limits. The licensee may demonstrate compliance with the requirements for summation of external and internal doses by meeting one of the conditions specified in paragraph (b) of this section and the conditions in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

# (Note:
The dose equivalents for the lens of the eye, the skin, and the extremities are not included in the summation, but are subject to separate limits.)
(b)
Intake by inhalation.
If the only intake of radionuclides is by inhalation, the total effective dose equivalent limit is not exceeded if the sum of the deep-dose equivalent divided by the total effective dose equivalent limit, and one of the following, does not exceed unity:
(1) The sum of the fractions of the inhalation ALI for each radionuclide, or
(2) The total number of derived air concentration-hours (DAC-hours) for all radionuclides divided by 2,000, or
(3) The sum of the calculated committed effective dose equivalents to all significantly irradiated
1
organs or tissues (T) calculated from bioassay data using appropriate biological models and expressed as a fraction of the annual limit.
1
An organ or tissue is deemed to be significantly irradiated if, for that organ or tissue, the product of the weighting factor, w
T
, and the committed dose equivalent, H
T,50
, per unit intake is greater than 10 percent of the maximum weighted value of H
T,50
, (
i.e.
, W
T
H
T,50
) per unit intake for any organ or tissue.
(c)
Intake by oral ingestion.
If the occupationally exposed individual also receives an intake of radionuclides by oral ingestion greater than 10 percent of the applicable oral ALI, the licensee shall account for this intake and include it in demonstrating compliance with the limits.
(d)
Intake through wounds or absorption through skin.
The licensee shall evaluate and, to the extent practical, account for intakes through wounds or skin absorption.

# Note:
The intake through intact skin has been included in the calculation of DAC for hydrogen-3 and does not need to be further evaluated.
[56 FR 23396, May 21, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 57878, Dec. 8, 1992]
§ 20.1203
Determination of external dose from airborne radioactive material.
Licensees shall, when determining the dose from airborne radioactive material, include the contribution to the deep-dose equivalent, lens dose equivalent, and shallow-dose equivalent from external exposure to the radioactive cloud (see appendix B to part 20, footnotes 1 and 2).

# Note:
Airborne radioactivity measurements and DAC values should not be used as the primary means to assess the deep-dose equivalent when the airborne radioactive material includes radionuclides other than noble gases or if the cloud of airborne radioactive material is not relatively uniform. The determination of the deep-dose equivalent to an individual should be based upon measurements using instruments or individual monitoring devices.
[56 FR 23396, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995; 63 FR 39482, July 23, 1998]
§ 20.1204
Determination of internal exposure.
(a) For purposes of assessing dose used to determine compliance with occupational dose equivalent limits, the licensee shall, when required under § 20.1502, take suitable and timely measurements of—
(1) Concentrations of radioactive materials in air in work areas; or
(2) Quantities of radionuclides in the body; or
(3) Quantities of radionuclides excreted from the body; or
(4) Combinations of these measurements.
(b) Unless respiratory protective equipment is used, as provided in § 20.1703, or the assessment of intake is based on bioassays, the licensee shall assume that an individual inhales radioactive material at the airborne concentration in which the individual is present.
(c) When specific information on the physical and biochemical properties of the radionuclides taken into the body or the behavior or the material in an individual is known, the licensee may—
(1) Use that information to calculate the committed effective dose equivalent, and, if used, the licensee shall document that information in the individual's record; and
(2) Upon prior approval of the Commission, adjust the DAC or ALI values to reflect the actual physical and chemical characteristics of airborne radioactive material (e.g., aerosol size distribution or density); and
(3) Separately assess the contribution of fractional intakes of Class D, W, or Y compounds of a given radionuclide (see appendix B to part 20) to the committed effective dose equivalent.
(d) If the licensee chooses to assess intakes of Class Y material using the measurements given in § 20.1204(a)(2) or (3), the licensee may delay the recording and reporting of the assessments for periods up to 7 months, unless otherwise required by §§ 20.2202 or 20.2203, in order to permit the licensee to make additional measurements basic to the assessments.
(e) If the identity and concentration of each radionuclide in a mixture are known, the fraction of the DAC applicable to the mixture for use in calculating DAC-hours must be either—
(1) The sum of the ratios of the concentration to the appropriate DAC value (e.g., D, W, Y) from appendix B to part 20 for each radio-nuclide in the mixture; or
(2) The ratio of the total concentration for all radionuclides in the mixture to the most restrictive DAC value for any radionuclide in the mixture.
(f) If the identity of each radionuclide in a mixture is known, but the concentration of one or more of the radionuclides in the mixture is not known, the DAC for the mixture must be the most restrictive DAC of any radionuclide in the mixture.
(g) When a mixture of radionuclides in air exists, licensees may disregard certain radionuclides in the mixture if—
(1) The licensee uses the total activity of the mixture in demonstrating compliance with the dose limits in § 20.1201 and in complying with the monitoring requirements in § 20.1502(b), and
(2) The concentration of any radionuclide disregarded is less than 10 percent of its DAC, and
(3) The sum of these percentages for all of the radionuclides disregarded in the mixture does not exceed 30 percent.
(h)(1) In order to calculate the committed effective dose equivalent, the licensee may assume that the inhalation of one ALI, or an exposure of 2,000 DAC-hours, results in a committed effective dose equivalent of 5 rems (0.05 Sv) for radionuclides that have their ALIs or DACs based on the committed effective dose equivalent.
(2) When the ALI (and the associated DAC) is determined by the nonstochastic organ dose limit of 50 rems (0.5 Sv), the intake of radionuclides that would result in a committed effective dose equivalent of 5 rems (0.05 Sv) (the stochastic ALI) is listed in parentheses in table 1 of appendix B to part 20. In this case, the licensee may, as a simplifying assumption, use the stochastic ALIs to determine committed effective dose equivalent. However, if the licensee uses the stochastic ALIs, the licensee must also
demonstrate that the limit in § 20.1201(a)(1)(ii) is met.
[56 FR 23396, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995]
§ 20.1205
[Reserved]
§ 20.1206
Planned special exposures.
A licensee may authorize an adult worker to receive doses in addition to and accounted for separately from the doses received under the limits specified in § 20.1201 provided that each of the following conditions is satisfied—
(a) The licensee authorizes a planned special exposure only in an exceptional situation when alternatives that might avoid the dose estimated to result from the planned special exposure are unavailable or impractical.
(b) The licensee (and employer if the employer is not the licensee) specifically authorizes the planned special exposure, in writing, before the exposure occurs.
(c) Before a planned special exposure, the licensee ensures that the individuals involved are—
(1) Informed of the purpose of the planned operation;
(2) Informed of the estimated doses and associated potential risks and specific radiation levels or other conditions that might be involved in performing the task; and
(3) Instructed in the measures to be taken to keep the dose ALARA considering other risks that may be present.
(d) Prior to permitting an individual to participate in a planned special exposure, the licensee ascertains prior doses as required by § 20.2104(b) during the lifetime of the individual for each individual involved.
(e) Subject to § 20.1201(b), the licensee does not authorize a planned special exposure that would cause an individual to receive a dose from all planned special exposures and all doses in excess of the limits to exceed—
(1) The numerical values of any of the dose limits in § 20.1201(a) in any year; and
(2) Five times the annual dose limits in § 20.1201(a) during the individual's lifetime.
(f) The licensee maintains records of the conduct of a planned special exposure in accordance with § 20.2105 and submits a written report in accordance with § 20.2204.
(g) The licensee records the best estimate of the dose resulting from the planned special exposure in the individual's record and informs the individual, in writing, of the dose within 30 days from the date of the planned special exposure. The dose from planned special exposures is not to be considered in controlling future occupational dose of the individual under § 20.1201(a) but is to be included in evaluations required by § 20.1206 (d) and (e).
[56 FR 23396, May 21, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 39482, July 23, 1998]
§ 20.1207
Occupational dose limits for minors.
The annual occupational dose limits for minors are 10 percent of the annual dose limits specified for adult workers in § 20.1201.
§ 20.1208
Dose equivalent to an embryo/fetus.
(a) The licensee shall ensure that the dose equivalent to the embryo/fetus during the entire pregnancy, due to the occupational exposure of a declared pregnant woman, does not exceed 0.5 rem (5 mSv). (For recordkeeping requirements, see § 20.2106.)
(b) The licensee shall make efforts to avoid substantial variation above a uniform monthly exposure rate to a declared pregnant woman so as to satisfy the limit in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The dose equivalent to the embryo/fetus is the sum of—
(1) The deep-dose equivalent to the declared pregnant woman; and
(2) The dose equivalent to the embryo/fetus resulting from radionuclides in the embryo/fetus and radionuclides in the declared pregnant woman.
(d) If the dose equivalent to the embryo/fetus is found to have exceeded 0.5 rem (5 mSv), or is within 0.05 rem (0.5 mSv) of this dose, by the time the woman declares the pregnancy to the licensee, the licensee shall be deemed to be in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section if the additional dose equivalent to the embryo/fetus does
not exceed 0.05 rem (0.5 mSv) during the remainder of the pregnancy.
[56 FR 23396, May 21, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 39482, July 23, 1998]

# Subpart D—Radiation Dose Limits for Individual Members of the Public

# Source:
56 FR 23398, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1301
Dose limits for individual members of the public.
(a) Each licensee shall conduct operations so that—
(1) The total effective dose equivalent to individual members of the public from the licensed operation does not exceed 0.1 rem (1 mSv) in a year, exclusive of the dose contributions from background radiation, from any medical administration the individual has received, from exposure to individuals administered radioactive material and released under § 35.75, from voluntary participation in medical research programs, and from the licensee's disposal of radioactive material into sanitary sewerage in accordance with § 20.2003, and
(2) The dose in any unrestricted area from external sources, exclusive of the dose contributions from patients administered radioactive material and released in accordance with § 35.75, does not exceed 0.002 rem (0.02 millisievert) in any one hour.
(b) If the licensee permits members of the public to have access to controlled areas, the limits for members of the public continue to apply to those individuals.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a licensee may permit visitors to an individual who cannot be released, under § 35.75, to receive a radiation dose greater than 0.1 rem (1 mSv) if—
(1) The radiation dose received does not exceed 0.5 rem (5 mSv); and
(2) The authorized user, as defined in 10 CFR Part 35, has determined before the visit that it is appropriate.
(d) A licensee or license applicant may apply for prior NRC authorization to operate up to an annual dose limit for an individual member of the public of 0.5 rem (5 mSv). The licensee or license applicant shall include the following information in this application:
(1) Demonstration of the need for and the expected duration of operations in excess of the limit in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The licensee's program to assess and control dose within the 0.5 rem (5 mSv) annual limit; and
(3) The procedures to be followed to maintain the dose as low as is reasonably achievable.
(e) In addition to the requirements of this part, a licensee subject to the provisions of EPA's generally applicable environmental radiation standards in 40 CFR part 190 shall comply with those standards.
(f) The Commission may impose additional restrictions on radiation levels in unrestricted areas and on the total quantity of radionuclides that a licensee may release in effluents in order to restrict the collective dose.
[56 FR 23398, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 48625, Sept. 20, 1995; 62 FR 4133, Jan. 29, 1997; 67 FR 20370, Apr. 24, 2002; 67 FR 62872, Oct. 9, 2002]
§ 20.1302
Compliance with dose limits for individual members of the public.
(a) The licensee shall make or cause to be made, as appropriate, surveys of radiation levels in unrestricted and controlled areas and radioactive materials in effluents released to unrestricted and controlled areas to demonstrate compliance with the dose limits for individual members of the public in § 20.1301.
(b) A licensee shall show compliance with the annual dose limit in § 20.1301 by—
(1) Demonstrating by measurement or calculation that the total effective dose equivalent to the individual likely to receive the highest dose from the licensed operation does not exceed the annual dose limit; or
(2) Demonstrating that—
(i) The annual average concentrations of radioactive material released in gaseous and liquid effluents at the boundary of the unrestricted area do not exceed the values specified in table 2 of appendix B to part 20; and
(ii) If an individual were continuously present in an unrestricted area, the dose from external sources would not exceed 0.002 rem (0.02 mSv) in an hour and 0.05 rem (0.5 mSv) in a year.
(c) Upon approval from the Commission, the licensee may adjust the effluent concentration values in appendix B to part 20, table 2, for members of the public, to take into account the actual physical and chemical characteristics of the effluents (e.g., aerosol size distribution, solubility, density, radioactive decay equilibrium, chemical form).
[56 FR 23398, May 21, 1991; 56 FR 61352, Dec. 3, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 57878, Dec. 8, 1992; 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995]

# Subpart E—Radiological Criteria for License Termination

# Source:
62 FR 39088, July 21, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1401
General provisions and scope.
(a) The criteria in this subpart apply to the decommissioning of facilities licensed under parts 30, 40, 50, 52, 60, 61, 63, 70, and 72 of this chapter, and release of part of a facility or site for unrestricted use in accordance with § 50.83 of this chapter, as well as other facilities subject to the Commission's jurisdiction under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended. For high-level and low-level waste disposal facilities (10 CFR parts 60, 61, and 63), the criteria apply only to ancillary surface facilities that support radioactive waste disposal activities. The criteria do not apply to uranium and thorium recovery facilities already subject to appendix A to 10 CFR part 40 or the uranium solution extraction facilities.
(b) The criteria in this subpart do not apply to sites which:
(1) Have been decommissioned prior to the effective date of the rule in accordance with criteria identified in the Site Decommissioning Management Plan (SDMP) Action Plan of April 16, 1992 (57 FR 13389);
(2) Have previously submitted and received Commission approval on a license termination plan (LTP) or decommissioning plan that is compatible with the SDMP Action Plan criteria; or
(3) Submit a sufficient LTP or decommissioning plan before August 20, 1998 and such LTP or decommissioning plan is approved by the Commission before August 20, 1999 and in accordance with the criteria identified in the SDMP Action Plan, except that if an EIS is required in the submittal, there will be a provision for day-for-day extension.
(c) After a site has been decommissioned and the license terminated in accordance with the criteria in this subpart, or after part of a facility or site has been released for unrestricted use in accordance with § 50.83 of this chapter and in accordance with the criteria in this subpart, the Commission will require additional cleanup only, if based on new information, it determines that the criteria of this subpart were not met and residual radioactivity remaining at the site could result in significant threat to public health and safety.
(d) When calculating TEDE to the average member of the critical group the licensee shall determine the peak annual TEDE dose expected within the first 1000 years after decommissioning.
[62 FR 39088, July 21, 1997, as amended at 66 FR 55789, Nov. 2, 2001; 68 FR 19726, Apr. 22, 2003; 72 FR 49485, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 20.1402
Radiological criteria for unrestricted use.
A site will be considered acceptable for unrestricted use if the residual radioactivity that is distinguishable from background radiation results in a TEDE to an average member of the critical group that does not exceed 25 mrem (0.25 mSv) per year, including that from groundwater sources of drinking water, and that the residual radioactivity has been reduced to levels that are as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA). Determination of the levels which are ALARA must take into account consideration of any detriments, such as deaths from transportation accidents, expected to potentially result from decontamination and waste disposal.
§ 20.1403
Criteria for license termination under restricted conditions.
A site will be considered acceptable for license termination under restricted conditions if:
(a) The licensee can demonstrate that further reductions in residual radioactivity necessary to comply with the provisions of § 20.1402 would result in net public or environmental harm or were not being made because the residual levels associated with restricted conditions are ALARA. Determination of the levels which are ALARA must take into account consideration of any detriments, such as traffic accidents, expected to potentially result from decontamination and waste disposal;
(b) The licensee has made provisions for legally enforceable institutional controls that provide reasonable assurance that the TEDE from residual radioactivity distinguishable from background to the average member of the critical group will not exceed 25 mrem (0.25 mSv) per year;
(c) The licensee has provided sufficient financial assurance to enable an independent third party, including a governmental custodian of a site, to assume and carry out responsibilities for any necessary control and maintenance of the site. Acceptable financial assurance mechanisms are—
(1) Funds placed into a trust segregated from the licensee's assets and outside the licensee's administrative control, and in which the adequacy of the trust funds is to be assessed based on an assumed annual 1 percent real rate of return on investment;
(2) A statement of intent in the case of Federal, State, or local Government licensees, as described in § 30.35(f)(4) of this chapter; or
(3) When a government entity is assuming custody and ownership of a site, an arrangement that is deemed acceptable by such governmental entity.
(d) The licensee has submitted a decommissioning plan or License Termination Plan (LTP) to the Commission indicating the licensee's intent to decommission in accordance with §§ 30.36(d), 40.42(d), 50.82 (a) and (b), 70.38(d), or 72.54 of this chapter, and specifying that the licensee intends to decommission by restricting use of the site. The licensee shall document in the LTP or decommissioning plan how the advice of individuals and institutions in the community who may be affected by the decommissioning has been sought and incorporated, as appropriate, following analysis of that advice.
(1) Licensees proposing to decommission by restricting use of the site shall seek advice from such affected parties regarding the following matters concerning the proposed decommissioning—
(i) Whether provisions for institutional controls proposed by the licensee:
(A) Will provide reasonable assurance that the TEDE from residual radioactivity distinguishable from background to the average member of the critical group will not exceed 25 mrem (0.25 mSv) TEDE per year;
(B) Will be enforceable; and
(C) Will not impose undue burdens on the local community or other affected parties.
(ii) Whether the licensee has provided sufficient financial assurance to enable an independent third party, including a governmental custodian of a site, to assume and carry out responsibilities for any necessary control and maintenance of the site;
(2) In seeking advice on the issues identified in § 20.1403(d)(1), the licensee shall provide for:
(i) Participation by representatives of a broad cross section of community interests who may be affected by the decommissioning;
(ii) An opportunity for a comprehensive, collective discussion on the issues by the participants represented; and
(iii) A publicly available summary of the results of all such discussions, including a description of the individual viewpoints of the participants on the issues and the extent of agreement or disagreement among the participants on the issues; and
(e) Residual radioactivity at the site has been reduced so that if the institutional controls were no longer in effect, there is reasonable assurance that the TEDE from residual radioactivity distinguishable from background to the average member of the critical group is
as low as reasonably achievable and would not exceed either—
(1) 100 mrem (1 mSv) per year; or
(2) 500 mrem (5 mSv) per year provided that the licensee—
(i) Demonstrates that further reductions in residual radioactivity necessary to comply with the 100 mrem/y (1 mSv/y) value of paragraph (e)(1) of this section are not technically achievable, would be prohibitively expensive, or would result in net public or environmental harm;
(ii) Makes provisions for durable institutional controls;
(iii) Provides sufficient financial assurance to enable a responsible government entity or independent third party, including a governmental custodian of a site, both to carry out periodic rechecks of the site no less frequently than every 5 years to assure that the institutional controls remain in place as necessary to meet the criteria of § 20.1403(b) and to assume and carry out responsibilities for any necessary control and maintenance of those controls. Acceptable financial assurance mechanisms are those in paragraph (c) of this section.
[62 FR 39088, July 21, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 35564, July 17, 2011]
§ 20.1404
Alternate criteria for license termination.
(a) The Commission may terminate a license using alternate criteria greater than the dose criterion of §§ 20.1402, 20.1403(b), and 20.1403(d)(1)(i)(A), if the licensee—
(1) Provides assurance that public health and safety would continue to be protected, and that it is unlikely that the dose from all man-made sources combined, other than medical, would be more than the 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y) limit of subpart D, by submitting an analysis of possible sources of exposure;
(2) Has employed to the extent practical restrictions on site use according to the provisions of § 20.1403 in minimizing exposures at the site; and
(3) Reduces doses to ALARA levels, taking into consideration any detriments such as traffic accidents expected to potentially result from decontamination and waste disposal.
(4) Has submitted a decommissioning plan or License Termination Plan (LTP) to the Commission indicating the licensee's intent to decommission in accordance with §§ 30.36(d), 40.42(d), 50.82 (a) and (b), 70.38(d), or 72.54 of this chapter, and specifying that the licensee proposes to decommission by use of alternate criteria. The licensee shall document in the decommissioning plan or LTP how the advice of individuals and institutions in the community who may be affected by the decommissioning has been sought and addressed, as appropriate, following analysis of that advice. In seeking such advice, the licensee shall provide for:
(i) Participation by representatives of a broad cross section of community interests who may be affected by the decommissioning;
(ii) An opportunity for a comprehensive, collective discussion on the issues by the participants represented; and
(iii) A publicly available summary of the results of all such discussions, including a description of the individual viewpoints of the participants on the issues and the extent of agreement and disagreement on the issues.
(5) Has provided sufficient financial assurance in the form of a trust fund to enable an independent third party, including a governmental custodian of a site, to assume and carry out responsibilities for any necessary control and maintenance of the site.
(b) The use of alternate criteria to terminate a license requires the approval of the Commission after consideration of the NRC staff's recommendations that will address any comments provided by the Environmental Protection Agency and any public comments submitted pursuant to § 20.1405.
[62 FR 39088, July 21, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 35564, July 17, 2011]
§ 20.1405
Public notification and public participation.
Upon the receipt of an LTP or decommissioning plan from the licensee, or a proposal by the licensee for release of a site pursuant to §§ 20.1403 or 20.1404, or whenever the Commission deems such notice to be in the public interest, the Commission shall:
(a) Notify and solicit comments from:
(1) Local and State governments in the vicinity of the site and any Indian Nation or other indigenous people that have treaty or statutory rights that could be affected by the decommissioning; and
(2) The Environmental Protection Agency for cases where the licensee proposes to release a site pursuant to § 20.1404.
(b) Publish a notice in the
Federal Register
and in a forum. such as local newspapers, letters to State of local organizations, or other appropriate forum, that is readily accessible to individuals in the vicinity of the site, and solicit comments from affected parties.
§ 20.1406
Minimization of contamination.
(a) Applicants for licenses, other than early site permits and manufacturing licenses under part 52 of this chapter and renewals, whose applications are submitted after August 20, 1997, shall describe in the application how facility design and procedures for operation will minimize, to the extent practicable, contamination of the facility and the environment, facilitate eventual decommissioning, and minimize, to the extent practicable, the generation of radioactive waste.
(b) Applicants for standard design certifications, standard design approvals, and manufacturing licenses under part 52 of this chapter, whose applications are submitted after August 20, 1997, shall describe in the application how facility design will minimize, to the extent practicable, contamination of the facility and the environment, facilitate eventual decommissioning, and minimize, to the extent practicable, the generation of radioactive waste.
(c) Licensees shall, to the extent practical, conduct operations to minimize the introduction of residual radioactivity into the site, including the subsurface, in accordance with the existing radiation protection requirements in subpart B and radiological criteria for license termination in subpart E of this part.
[72 FR 49485, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 76 FR 35564, June 17, 2011]

# Subpart F—Surveys and Monitoring

# Source:
56 FR 23398, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1501
General.
(a) Each licensee shall make or cause to be made, surveys of areas, including the subsurface, that—
(1) May be necessary for the licensee to comply with the regulations in this part; and
(2) Are reasonable under the circumstances to evaluate—
(i) The magnitude and extent of radiation levels; and
(ii) Concentrations or quantities of residual radioactivity; and
(iii) The potential radiological hazards of the radiation levels and residual radioactivity detected.
(b) Notwithstanding § 20.2103(a) of this part, records from surveys describing the location and amount of subsurface residual radioactivity identified at the site must be kept with records important for decommissioning, and such records must be retained in accordance with §§ 30.35(g), 40.36(f), 50.75(g), 70.25(g), or 72.30(d), as applicable.
(c) The licensee shall ensure that instruments and equipment used for quantitative radiation measurements (e.g., dose rate and effluent monitoring) are calibrated periodically for the radiation measured.
(d) All personnel dosimeters (except for direct and indirect reading pocket ionization chambers and those dosimeters used to measure the dose to the extremities) that require processing to determine the radiation dose and that are used by licensees to comply with § 20.1201, with other applicable provisions of this chapter, or with conditions specified in a license must be processed and evaluated by a dosimetry processor—
(1) Holding current personnel dosimetry accreditation from the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology; and
(2) Approved in this accreditation process for the type of radiation or radiations included in the NVLAP program that most closely approximates the type of radiation or radiations for which the individual wearing the dosimeter is monitored.
[56 FR 23398, May 21, 1991, as amended at 63 FR 39482, July 23, 1998; 76 FR 35564, June 17, 2011]
§ 20.1502
Conditions requiring individual monitoring of external and internal occupational dose.
Each licensee shall monitor exposures to radiation and radioactive material at levels sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the occupational dose limits of this part. As a minimum—
(a) Each licensee shall monitor occupational exposure to radiation from licensed and unlicensed radiation sources under the control of the licensee and shall supply and require the use of individual monitoring devices by—
(1) Adults likely to receive, in 1 year from sources external to the body, a dose in excess of 10 percent of the limits in § 20.1201(a),
(2) Minors likely to receive, in 1 year, from radiation sources external to the body, a deep dose equivalent in excess of 0.1 rem (1 mSv), a lens dose equivalent in excess of 0.15 rem (1.5 mSv), or a shallow dose equivalent to the skin or to the extremities in excess of 0.5 rem (5 mSv);
(3) Declared pregnant women likely to receive during the entire pregnancy, from radiation sources external to the body, a deep dose equivalent in excess of 0.1 rem (1 mSv);
2
and
2
All of the occupational doses in § 20.1201 continue to be applicable to the declared pregnant worker as long as the embryo/fetus dose limit is not exceeded.
(4) Individuals entering a high or very high radiation area.
(b) Each licensee shall monitor (see § 20.1204) the occupational intake of radioactive material by and assess the committed effective dose equivalent to—
(1) Adults likely to receive, in 1 year, an intake in excess of 10 percent of the applicable ALI(s) in table 1, columns 1 and 2, of appendix B to §§ 20.1001-20.2402;
(2) Minors likely to receive, in 1 year, a committed effective dose equivalent in excess of 0.1 rem (1 mSv); and
(3) Declared pregnant women likely to receive, during the entire pregnancy, a committed effective dose equivalent in excess of 0.1 rem (1 mSv).
[56 FR 23398, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995; 63 FR 39482, July 23, 1998]

# Subpart G—Control of Exposure From External Sources in Restricted Areas

# Source:
56 FR 23398, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1601
Control of access to high radiation areas.
(a) The licensee shall ensure that each entrance or access point to a high radiation area has one or more of the following features—
(1) A control device that, upon entry into the area, causes the level of radiation to be reduced below that level at which an individual might receive a deep-dose equivalent of 0.1 rem (1 mSv) in 1 hour at 30 centimeters from the radiation source or from any surface that the radiation penetrates;
(2) A control device that energizes a conspicuous visible or audible alarm signal so that the individual entering the high radiation area and the supervisor of the activity are made aware of the entry; or
(3) Entryways that are locked, except during periods when access to the areas is required, with positive control over each individual entry.
(b) In place of the controls required by paragraph (a) of this section for a high radiation area, the licensee may substitute continuous direct or electronic surveillance that is capable of preventing unauthorized entry.
(c) A licensee may apply to the Commission for approval of alternative methods for controlling access to high radiation areas.
(d) The licensee shall establish the controls required by paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section in a way that does
not prevent individuals from leaving a high radiation area.
(e) Control is not required for each entrance or access point to a room or other area that is a high radiation area solely because of the presence of radioactive materials prepared for transport and packaged and labeled in accordance with the regulations of the Department of Transportation provided that—
(1) The packages do not remain in the area longer than 3 days; and
(2) The dose rate at 1 meter from the external surface of any package does not exceed 0.01 rem (0.1 mSv) per hour.
(f) Control of entrance or access to rooms or other areas in hospitals is not required solely because of the presence of patients containing radioactive material, provided that there are personnel in attendance who will take the necessary precautions to prevent the exposure of individuals to radiation or radioactive material in excess of the limits established in this part and to operate within the ALARA provisions of the licensee's radiation protection program.
§ 20.1602
Control of access to very high radiation areas.
In addition to the requirements in § 20.1601, the licensee shall institute additional measures to ensure that an individual is not able to gain unauthorized or inadvertent access to areas in which radiation levels could be encountered at 500 rads (5 grays) or more in 1 hour at 1 meter from a radiation source or any surface through which the radiation penetrates.

# Subpart H—Respiratory Protection and Controls To Restrict Internal Exposure in Restricted Areas

# Source:
56 FR 23400, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1701
Use of process or other engineering controls.
The licensee shall use, to the extent practical, process or other engineering controls (e.g., containment, decontamination, or ventilation) to control the concentration of radioactive material in air.
[64 FR 54556, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 20.1702
Use of other controls.
(a) When it is not practical to apply process or other engineering controls to control the concentrations of radioactive material in the air to values below those that define an airborne radioactivity area, the licensee shall, consistent with maintaining the total effective dose equivalent ALARA, increase monitoring and limit intakes by one or more of the following means—
(1) Control of access;
(2) Limitation of exposure times;
(3) Use of respiratory protection equipment; or
(4) Other controls.
(b) If the licensee performs an ALARA analysis to determine whether or not respirators should be used, the licensee may consider safety factors other than radiological factors. The licensee should also consider the impact of respirator use on workers' industrial health and safety.
[64 FR 54556, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 20.1703
Use of individual respiratory protection equipment.
If the licensee assigns or permits the use of respiratory protection equipment to limit the intake of radioactive material,
(a) The licensee shall use only respiratory protection equipment that is tested and certified by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) except as otherwise noted in this part.
(b) If the licensee wishes to use equipment that has not been tested or certified by NIOSH, or for which there is no schedule for testing or certification, the licensee shall submit an application to the NRC for authorized use of this equipment except as provided in this part. The application must include evidence that the material and performance characteristics of the equipment are capable of providing the proposed degree of protection under anticipated conditions of use. This must be demonstrated either by licensee testing or on the basis of reliable test information.
(c) The licensee shall implement and maintain a respiratory protection program that includes:
(1) Air sampling sufficient to identify the potential hazard, permit proper equipment selection, and estimate doses;
(2) Surveys and bioassays, as necessary, to evaluate actual intakes;
(3) Testing of respirators for operability (user seal check for face sealing devices and functional check for others) immediately prior to each use;
(4) Written procedures regarding—
(i) Monitoring, including air sampling and bioassays;
(ii) Supervision and training of respirator users;
(iii) Fit testing;
(iv) Respirator selection;
(v) Breathing air quality;
(vi) Inventory and control;
(vii) Storage, issuance, maintenance, repair, testing, and quality assurance of respiratory protection equipment;
(viii) Recordkeeping; and
(ix) Limitations on periods of respirator use and relief from respirator use;
(5) Determination by a physician that the individual user is medically fit to use respiratory protection equipment:
(i) Before the initial fitting of a face sealing respirator;
(ii) Before the first field use of non-face sealing respirators, and
(iii) Either every 12 months thereafter, or periodically at a frequency determined by a physician.
(6) Fit testing, with fit factor ≥10 times the APF for negative pressure devices, and a fit factor ≥500 for any positive pressure, continuous flow, and pressure-demand devices, before the first field use of tight fitting, face-sealing respirators and periodically thereafter at a frequency not to exceed 1 year. Fit testing must be performed with the facepiece operating in the negative pressure mode.
(d) The licensee shall advise each respirator user that the user may leave the area at any time for relief from respirator use in the event of equipment malfunction, physical or psychological distress, procedural or communication failure, significant deterioration of operating conditions, or any other conditions that might require such relief.
(e) The licensee shall also consider limitations appropriate to the type and mode of use. When selecting respiratory devices the licensee shall provide for vision correction, adequate communication, low temperature work environments, and the concurrent use of other safety or radiological protection equipment. The licensee shall use equipment in such a way as not to interfere with the proper operation of the respirator.
(f) Standby rescue persons are required whenever one-piece atmosphere-supplying suits, or any combination of supplied air respiratory protection device and personnel protective equipment are used from which an unaided individual would have difficulty extricating himself or herself. The standby persons must be equipped with respiratory protection devices or other apparatus appropriate for the potential hazards. The standby rescue persons shall observe or otherwise maintain continuous communication with the workers (visual, voice, signal line, telephone, radio, or other suitable means), and be immediately available to assist them in case of a failure of the air supply or for any other reason that requires relief from distress. A sufficient number of standby rescue persons must be immediately available to assist all users of this type of equipment and to provide effective emergency rescue if needed.
(g) Atmosphere-supplying respirators must be supplied with respirable air of grade D quality or better as defined by the Compressed Gas Association in publication G-7.1, “Commodity Specification for Air,” 1997 and included in the regulations of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (29 CFR 1910.134(i)(1)(ii)(A) through (E)). Grade D quality air criteria include—
(1) Oxygen content (v/v) of 19.5-23.5%;
(2) Hydrocarbon (condensed) content of 5 milligrams per cubic meter of air or less;
(3) Carbon monoxide (CO) content of 10 ppm or less;
(4) Carbon dioxide content of 1,000 ppm or less; and
(5) Lack of noticeable odor.
(h) The licensee shall ensure that no objects, materials or substances, such as facial hair, or any conditions that interfere with the face—facepiece seal or valve function, and that are under the control of the respirator wearer, are present between the skin of the wearer's face and the sealing surface of a tight-fitting respirator facepiece.
(i) In estimating the dose to individuals from intake of airborne radioactive materials, the concentration of radioactive material in the air that is inhaled when respirators are worn is initially assumed to be the ambient concentration in air without respiratory protection, divided by the assigned protection factor. If the dose is later found to be greater than the estimated dose, the corrected value must be used. If the dose is later found to be less than the estimated dose, the corrected value may be used.
[64 FR 54557, Oct. 7, 1999, as amended at 67 FR 77652, Dec. 19, 2002]
§ 20.1704
Further restrictions on the use of respiratory protection equipment.
The Commission may impose restrictions in addition to the provisions of §§ 20.1702, 20.1703, and Appendix A to Part 20, in order to:
(a) Ensure that the respiratory protection program of the licensee is adequate to limit doses to individuals from intakes of airborne radioactive materials consistent with maintaining total effective dose equivalent ALARA; and
(b) Limit the extent to which a licensee may use respiratory protection equipment instead of process or other engineering controls.
[64 FR 54557, Oct. 7, 1999]
§ 20.1705
Application for use of higher assigned protection factors.
The licensee shall obtain authorization from the Commission before using assigned protection factors in excess of those specified in Appendix A to part 20. The Commission may authorize a licensee to use higher assigned protection factors on receipt of an application that—
(a) Describes the situation for which a need exists for higher protection factors; and
(b) Demonstrates that the respiratory protection equipment provides these higher protection factors under the proposed conditions of use.
[64 FR 54557, Oct. 7, 1999]

# Subpart I—Storage and Control of Licensed Material

# Source:
56 FR 23401, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1801
Security of stored material.
The licensee shall secure from unauthorized removal or access licensed materials that are stored in controlled or unrestricted areas.
§ 20.1802
Control of material not in storage.
The licensee shall control and maintain constant surveillance of licensed material that is in a controlled or unrestricted area and that is not in storage.

# Subpart J—Precautionary Procedures

# Source:
56 FR 23401, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.1901
Caution signs.
(a)
Standard radiation symbol.
Unless otherwise authorized by the Commission, the symbol prescribed by this part shall use the colors magenta, or purple, or black on yellow background. The symbol prescribed by this part is the three-bladed design:
EC02OC91.000
(1) Cross-hatched area is to be magenta, or purple, or black, and
(2) The background is to be yellow.
(b)
Exception to color requirements for standard radiation symbol.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, licensees are authorized to label sources, source holders, or device components containing sources of licensed materials that are subjected to high temperatures, with conspicuously etched or stamped radiation caution symbols and without a color requirement.
(c)
Additional information on signs and labels.
In addition to the contents of signs and labels prescribed in this part, the licensee may provide, on or near the required signs and labels, additional information, as appropriate, to make individuals aware of potential radiation exposures and to minimize the exposures.
§ 20.1902
Posting requirements.
(a)
Posting of radiation areas.
The licensee shall post each radiation area with a conspicuous sign or signs bearing the radiation symbol and the words “CAUTION, RADIATION AREA.”
(b)
Posting of high radiation areas.
The licensee shall post each high radiation area with a conspicuous sign or signs bearing the radiation symbol and the words “CAUTION, HIGH RADIATION AREA” or “DANGER, HIGH RADIATION AREA.”
(c)
Posting of very high radiation areas.
The licensee shall post each very high radiation area with a conspicuous sign or signs bearing the radiation symbol and words “GRAVE DANGER, VERY HIGH RADIATION AREA.”
(d)
Posting of airborne radioactivity areas.
The licensee shall post each airborne radioactivity area with a conspicuous sign or signs bearing the radiation symbol and the words “CAUTION, AIRBORNE RADIOACTIVITY AREA” or “DANGER, AIRBORNE RADIOACTIVITY AREA.”
(e)
Posting of areas or rooms in which licensed material is used or stored.
The licensee shall post each area or room in which there is used or stored an amount of licensed material exceeding 10 times the quantity of such material specified in appendix C to part 20 with a conspicuous sign or signs bearing the radiation symbol and the words “CAUTION, RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL(S)” or “DANGER, RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL(S).”
[56 FR 23401, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995]
§ 20.1903
Exceptions to posting requirements.
(a) A licensee is not required to post caution signs in areas or rooms containing radioactive materials for periods of less than 8 hours, if each of the following conditions is met:
(1) The materials are constantly attended during these periods by an individual who takes the precautions necessary to prevent the exposure of individuals to radiation or radioactive materials in excess of the limits established in this part; and
(2) The area or room is subject to the licensee's control.
(b) Rooms or other areas in hospitals that are occupied by patients are not required to be posted with caution signs pursuant to § 20.1902 provided that the patient could be released from licensee control pursuant to § 35.75 of this chapter.
(c) A room or area is not required to be posted with a caution sign because of the presence of a sealed source provided the radiation level at 30 centimeters from the surface of the source container or housing does not exceed 0.005 rem (0.05 mSv) per hour.
(d) Rooms in hospitals or clinics that are used for teletherapy are exempt from the requirement to post caution signs under § 20.1902 if—
(1) Access to the room is controlled pursuant to 10 CFR 35.615; and
(2) Personnel in attendance take necessary precautions to prevent the inadvertent exposure of workers, other patients, and members of the public to radiation in excess of the limits established in this part.
[56 FR 23401, May 21, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 39357, Aug. 31, 1992; 62 FR 4133, Jan. 29, 1997; 63 FR 39482, July 23, 1998]
§ 20.1904
Labeling containers.
(a) The licensee shall ensure that each container of licensed material bears a durable, clearly visible label bearing the radiation symbol and the words “CAUTION, RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL” or “DANGER, RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL.” The label must also provide sufficient information (such as the radionuclide(s) present, an estimate of the quantity of radioactivity, the date for which the activity is estimated, radiation levels, kinds of materials, and mass enrichment) to permit individuals handling or using the containers, or working in the vicinity of the containers, to take precautions to avoid or minimize exposures.
(b) Each licensee shall, prior to removal or disposal of empty uncontaminated containers to unrestricted areas, remove or deface the radioactive material label or otherwise clearly indicate that the container no longer contains radioactive materials.
§ 20.1905
Exemptions to labeling requirements.
A licensee is not required to label—
(a) Containers holding licensed material in quantities less than the quantities listed in appendix C to part 20; or
(b) Containers holding licensed material in concentrations less than those specified in table 3 of appendix B to part 20; or
(c) Containers attended by an individual who takes the precautions necessary to prevent the exposure of individuals in excess of the limits established by this part; or
(d) Containers when they are in transport and packaged and labeled in
accordance with the regulations of the Department of Transportation,
3
or
3
Labeling of packages containing radioactive materials is required by the Department of Transportation (DOT) if the amount and type of radioactive material exceeds the limits for an excepted quantity or article as defined and limited by DOT regulations 49 CFR 173.403 (m) and (w) and 173.421-424.
(e) Containers that are accessible only to individuals authorized to handle or use them, or to work in the vicinity of the containers, if the contents are identified to these individuals by a readily available written record (examples of containers of this type are containers in locations such as water-filled canals, storage vaults, or hot cells). The record must be retained as long as the containers are in use for the purpose indicated on the record; or
(f) Installed manufacturing or process equipment, such as reactor components, piping, and tanks; or
(g) Containers holding licensed material (other than sealed sources that are either specifically or generally licensed) at a facility licensed under Parts 50 or 52 of this chapter, not including non-power reactors, that are within an area posted under the requirements in § 20.1902 if the containers are:
(1) Conspicuously marked (such as by providing a system of color coding of containers) commensurate with the radiological hazard;
(2) Accessible only to individuals who have sufficient instruction to minimize radiation exposure while handling or working in the vicinity of the containers; and
(3) Subject to plant procedures to ensure they are appropriately labeled, as specified at § 20.1904 before being removed from the posted area.
[56 FR 23401, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995; 72 FR 68059, Dec. 4, 2007]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106250, Dec. 30, 2024, § 20.1905 was amended in paragraph (g) by removing the word “reactors” and adding in its place the phrase “production or utilization facilities”, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 20.1906
Procedures for receiving and opening packages.
(a) Each licensee who expects to receive a package containing quantities of radioactive material in excess of a Type A quantity, as defined in § 71.4 and appendix A to part 71 of this chapter, shall make arrangements to receive—
(1) The package when the carrier offers it for delivery; or
(2) Notification of the arrival of the package at the carrier's terminal and to take possession of the package expeditiously.
(b) Each licensee shall—
(1) Monitor the external surfaces of a labeled
3a
package for radioactive contamination unless the package contains only radioactive material in the form of a gas or in special form as defined in 10 CFR 71.4;
3a
Labeled with a Radioactive White I, Yellow II, or Yellow III label as specified in U.S. Department of Transportation regulations, 49 CFR 172.403 and 172.436-440.
(2) Monitor the external surfaces of a labeled
3a
package for radiation levels unless the package contains quantities of radioactive material that are less than or equal to the Type A quantity, as defined in § 71.4 and appendix A to part 71 of this chapter; and
(3) Monitor all packages known to contain radioactive material for radioactive contamination and radiation levels if there is evidence of degradation of package integrity, such as packages that are crushed, wet, or damaged.
(c) The licensee shall perform the monitoring required by paragraph (b) of this section as soon as practical after receipt of the package, but not later than 3 hours after the package is received at the licensee's facility if it is received during the licensee's normal working hours, or not later than 3 hours from the beginning of the next working day if it is received after working hours.
(d) The licensee shall immediately notify the final delivery carrier and the NRC Headquarters Operations Center by telephone at the numbers specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter, when—
(1) Removable radioactive surface contamination exceeds the limits of § 71.87(i) of this chapter; or
(2) External radiation levels exceed the limits of § 71.47 of this chapter.
(e) Each licensee shall—
(1) Establish, maintain, and retain written procedures for safely opening packages in which radioactive material is received; and
(2) Ensure that the procedures are followed and that due consideration is given to special instructions for the type of package being opened.
(f) Licensees transferring special form sources in licensee-owned or licensee-operated vehicles to and from a work site are exempt from the contamination monitoring requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, but are not exempt from the survey requirement in paragraph (b) of this section for measuring radiation levels that is required to ensure that the source is still properly lodged in its shield.
[56 FR 23401, May 21, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 39357, Aug. 31, 1992; 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995; 63 FR 39482, July 23, 1998; 85 FR 65661, Oct. 16, 2020; 85 FR 68243, Oct. 28, 2020]

# Subpart K—Waste Disposal

# Source:
56 FR 23403, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.2001
General requirements.
(a) A licensee shall dispose of licensed material only—
(1) By transfer to an authorized recipient as provided in § 20.2006 or in the regulations in parts 30, 40, 60, 61, 63, 70, and 72 of this chapter;
(2) By decay in storage; or
(3) By release in effluents within the limits in § 20.1301; or
(4) As authorized under §§ 20.2002, 20.2003, 20.2004, 20.2005, or 20.2008.
(b) A person must be specifically licensed to receive waste containing licensed material from other persons for:
(1) Treatment prior to disposal; or
(2) Treatment or disposal by incineration; or
(3) Decay in storage; or
(4) Disposal at a land disposal facility licensed under part 61 of this chapter; or
(5) Disposal at a geologic repository under part 60 or part 63 of this chapter.
[56 FR 23403, May 21, 1991, as amended at 66 FR 55789, Nov. 2, 2001; 72 FR 55922, Oct. 1, 2007]
§ 20.2002
Method for obtaining approval of proposed disposal procedures.
A licensee or applicant for a license may apply to the Commission for approval of proposed procedures, not otherwise authorized in the regulations in this chapter, to dispose of licensed material generated in the licensee's activities. Each application shall include:
(a) A description of the waste containing licensed material to be disposed of, including the physical and chemical properties important to risk evaluation, and the proposed manner and conditions of waste disposal; and
(b) An analysis and evaluation of pertinent information on the nature of the environment; and
(c) The nature and location of other potentially affected licensed and unlicensed facilities; and
(d) Analyses and procedures to ensure that doses are maintained ALARA and within the dose limits in this part.
§ 20.2003
Disposal by release into sanitary sewerage.
(a) A licensee may discharge licensed material into sanitary sewerage if each of the following conditions is satisfied:
(1) The material is readily soluble (or is readily dispersible biological material) in water; and
(2) The quantity of licensed or other radioactive material that the licensee releases into the sewer in 1 month divided by the average monthly volume of water released into the sewer by the licensee does not exceed the concentration listed in table 3 of appendix B to part 20; and
(3) If more than one radionuclide is released, the following conditions must also be satisfied:
(i) The licensee shall determine the fraction of the limit in table 3 of appendix B to part 20 represented by discharges into sanitary sewerage by dividing the actual monthly average concentration of each radionuclide released by the licensee into the sewer by the concentration of that radionuclide
listed in table 3 of appendix B to part 20; and
(ii) The sum of the fractions for each radionuclide required by paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section does not exceed unity; and
(4) The total quantity of licensed and other radioactive material that the licensee releases into the sanitary sewerage system in a year does not exceed 5 curies (185 GBq) of hydrogen-3, 1 curie (37 GBq) of carbon-14, and 1 curie (37 GBq) of all other radioactive materials combined.
(b) Excreta from individuals undergoing medical diagnosis or therapy with radioactive material are not subject to the limitations contained in paragraph (a) of this section.
[56 FR 23403, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995]
§ 20.2004
Treatment or disposal by incineration.
(a) A licensee may treat or dispose of licensed material by incineration only:
(1) As authorized by paragraph (b) of this section; or
(2) If the material is in a form and concentration specified in § 20.2005; or
(3) As specifically approved by the Commission pursuant to § 20.2002.
(b)(1) Waste oils (petroleum derived or synthetic oils used principally as lubricants, coolants, hydraulic or insulating fluids, or metalworking oils) that have been radioactively contaminated in the course of the operation or maintenance of a nuclear power reactor licensed under part 50 of this chapter may be incinerated on the site where generated provided that the total radioactive effluents from the facility, including the effluents from such incineration, conform to the requirements of appendix I to part 50 of this chapter and the effluent release limits contained in applicable license conditions other than effluent limits specifically related to incineration of waste oil. The licensee shall report any changes or additions to the information supplied under §§ 50.34 and 50.34a of this chapter associated with this incineration pursuant to § 50.71 of this chapter, as appropriate. The licensee shall also follow the procedures of § 50.59 of this chapter with respect to such changes to the facility or procedures.
(2) Solid residues produced in the process of incinerating waste oils must be disposed of as provided by § 20.2001.
(3) The provisions of this section authorize onsite waste oil incineration under the terms of this section and supersede any provision in an individual plant license or technical specification that may be inconsistent.
[57 FR 57656, Dec. 7, 1992]
§ 20.2005
Disposal of specific wastes.
(a) A licensee may dispose of the following licensed material as if it were not radioactive:
(1) 0.05 microcurie (1.85 kBq), or less, of hydrogen-3 or carbon-14 per gram of medium used for liquid scintillation counting; and
(2) 0.05 microcurie (1.85 kBq), or less, of hydrogen-3 or carbon-14 per gram of animal tissue, averaged over the weight of the entire animal.
(b) A licensee may not dispose of tissue under paragraph (a)(2) of this section in a manner that would permit its use either as food for humans or as animal feed.
(c) The licensee shall maintain records in accordance with § 20.2108.
§ 20.2006
Transfer for disposal and manifests.
(a) The requirements of this section and appendix G to 10 CFR part 20 are designed to—
(1) Control transfers of low-level radioactive waste by any waste generator, waste collector, or waste processor licensee, as defined in this part, who ships low-level waste either directly, or indirectly through a waste collector or waste processor, to a licensed low-level waste land disposal facility (as defined in part 61 of this chapter);
(2) Establish a manifest tracking system; and
(3) Supplement existing requirements concerning transfers and recordkeeping for those wastes.
(b) Any licensee shipping radioactive waste intended for ultimate disposal at a licensed land disposal facility must document the information required on NRC's Uniform Low-Level Radioactive
Waste Manifest and transfer this recorded manifest information to the intended consignee in accordance with appendix G to 10 CFR part 20.
(c) Each shipment manifest must include a certification by the waste generator as specified in section II of appendix G to 10 CFR part 20.
(d) Each person involved in the transfer for disposal and disposal of waste, including the waste generator, waste collector, waste processor, and disposal facility operator, shall comply with the requirements specified in section III of appendix G to 10 CFR part 20.
(e) Any licensee shipping byproduct material as defined in paragraphs (3) and (4) of the definition of
Byproduct material
set forth in § 20.1003 intended for ultimate disposal at a land disposal facility licensed under part 61 of this chapter must document the information required on the NRC's Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest and transfer this recorded manifest information to the intended consignee in accordance with appendix G to this part.
[63 FR 50128, Sept. 21, 1998, as amended at 72 FR 55922, Oct. 1, 2007]
§ 20.2007
Compliance with environmental and health protection regulations.
Nothing in this subpart relieves the licensee from complying with other applicable Federal, State, and local regulations governing any other toxic or hazardous properties of materials that may be disposed of under this subpart.
§ 20.2008
Disposal of certain byproduct material.
(a) Licensed material as defined in paragraphs (3) and (4) of the definition of
Byproduct material
set forth in § 20.1003 may be disposed of in accordance with part 61 of this chapter, even though it is not defined as low-level radioactive waste. Therefore, any licensed byproduct material being disposed of at a facility, or transferred for ultimate disposal at a facility licensed under part 61 of this chapter, must meet the requirements of § 20.2006.
(b) A licensee may dispose of byproduct material, as defined in paragraphs (3) and (4) of the definition of
Byproduct material
set forth in § 20.1003, at a disposal facility authorized to dispose of such material in accordance with any Federal or State solid or hazardous waste law, including the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as authorized under the Energy Policy Act of 2005.
[72 FR 55922, Oct. 1, 2007]

# Subpart L—Records

# Source:
56 FR 23404, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.2101
General provisions.
(a) Each licensee shall use the units: curie, rad, rem, including multiples and subdivisions, and shall clearly indicate the units of all quantities on records required by this part.
(b) In the records required by this part, the licensee may record quantities in SI units in parentheses following each of the units specified in paragraph (a) of this section. However, all quantities must be recorded as stated in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Not withstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, when recording information on shipment manifests, as required in § 20.2006(b), information must be recorded in the International System of Units (SI) or in SI and units as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) The licensee shall make a clear distinction among the quantities entered on the records required by this part (e.g., total effective dose equivalent, shallow-dose equivalent, lens dose equivalent, deep-dose equivalent, committed effective dose equivalent).
[56 FR 23404, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 15663, Mar. 27, 1995; 63 FR 39483, July 23, 1998]
§ 20.2102
Records of radiation protection programs.
(a) Each licensee shall maintain records of the radiation protection program, including:
(1) The provisions of the program; and
(2) Audits and other reviews of program content and implementation.
(b) The licensee shall retain the records required by paragraph (a)(1) of
this section until the Commission terminates each pertinent license requiring the record. The licensee shall retain the records required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section for 3 years after the record is made.
§ 20.2103
Records of surveys.
(a) Each licensee shall maintain records showing the results of surveys and calibrations required by §§ 20.1501 and 20.1906(b). The licensee shall retain these records for 3 years after the record is made.
(b) The licensee shall retain each of the following records until the Commission terminates each pertinent license requiring the record:
(1) Records of the results of surveys to determine the dose from external sources and used, in the absence of or in combination with individual monitoring data, in the assessment of individual dose equivalents. This includes those records of results of surveys to determine the dose from external sources and used, in the absence of or in combination with individual monitoring data, in the assessment of individual dose equivalents required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994; and
(2) Records of the results of measurements and calculations used to determine individual intakes of radioactive material and used in the assessment of internal dose. This includes those records of the results of measurements and calculations used to determine individual intakes of radioactive material and used in the assessment of internal dose required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994; and
(3) Records showing the results of air sampling, surveys, and bioassays required pursuant to § 20.1703(c)(1) and (2). This includes those records showing the results of air sampling, surveys, and bioassays required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994; and
(4) Records of the results of measurements and calculations used to evaluate the release of radioactive effluents to the environment. This includes those records of the results of measurements and calculations used to evaluate the release of radioactive effluents to the environment required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994.
[56 FR 23404, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20185, Apr. 25, 1995; 66 FR 64737, Dec. 14, 2001]
§ 20.2104
Determination of prior occupational dose.
(a) For each individual who is likely to receive an annual occupational dose requiring monitoring under § 20.1502, the licensee shall determine the occupational radiation dose received during the current year.
(b) Prior to permitting an individual to participate in a planned special exposure, the licensee shall determine—
(1) The internal and external doses from all previous planned special exposures; and
(2) All doses in excess of the limits (including doses received during accidents and emergencies) received during the lifetime of the individual.
(c) In complying with the requirements of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, a licensee may—
(1) Accept, as a record of the occupational dose that the individual received during the current year, a written signed statement from the individual, or from the individual's most recent employer for work involving radiation exposure, that discloses the nature and the amount of any occupational dose that the individual may have received during the current year;
(2) Accept, as the record of cumulative radiation dose, an up-to-date NRC Form 4, or equivalent, signed by the individual and countersigned by an appropriate official of the most recent employer for work involving radiation exposure, or the individual's current employer (if the individual is not employed by the licensee); and
(3) Obtain reports of the individual's dose equivalent(s) from the most recent employer for work involving radiation exposure, or the individual's current employer (if the individual is not employed by the licensee) by telephone, telegram, electronic media, or letter. The licensee shall request a written verification of the dose data if
the authenticity of the transmitted report cannot be established.
(d) The licensee shall record the exposure history of each individual, as required by paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, on NRC Form 4, or other clear and legible record, including all of the information required by NRC Form 4.
4
The form or record must show each period in which the individual received occupational exposure to radiation or radioactive material and must be signed by the individual who received the exposure. For each period for which the licensee obtains reports, the licensee shall use the dose shown in the report in preparing the NRC Form 4. For any period in which the licensee does not obtain a report, the licensee shall place a notation on the NRC Form 4 indicating the periods of time for which data are not available.
4
Licensees are not required to partition historical dose between external dose equivalent(s) and internal committed dose equivalent(s). Further, occupational exposure histories obtained and recorded on NRC Form 4 before January 1, 1994, might not have included effective dose equivalent, but may be used in the absence of specific information on the intake of radionuclides by the individual.
(e) If the licensee is unable to obtain a complete record of an individual's current and previously accumulated occupational dose, the licensee shall assume—
(1) In establishing administrative controls under § 20.1201(f) for the current year, that the allowable dose limit for the individual is reduced by 1.25 rems (12.5 mSv) for each quarter for which records were unavailable and the individual was engaged in activities that could have resulted in occupational radiation exposure; and
(2) That the individual is not available for planned special exposures.
(f) The licensee shall retain the records on NRC Form 4 or equivalent until the Commission terminates each pertinent license requiring this record. The licensee shall retain records used in preparing NRC Form 4 for 3 years after the record is made. This includes records required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994.
[56 FR 23404, May 21, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 57878, Dec. 8, 1992; 60 FR 20186, Apr. 25, 1995; 60 FR 36043, July 13, 1995; 72 FR 68059, Dec. 4, 2007]
§ 20.2105
Records of planned special exposures.
(a) For each use of the provisions of § 20.1206 for planned special exposures, the licensee shall maintain records that describe—
(1) The exceptional circumstances requiring the use of a planned special exposure; and
(2) The name of the management official who authorized the planned special exposure and a copy of the signed authorization; and
(3) What actions were necessary; and
(4) Why the actions were necessary; and
(5) How doses were maintained ALARA; and
(6) What individual and collective doses were expected to result, and the doses actually received in the planned special exposure.
(b) The licensee shall retain the records until the Commission terminates each pertinent license requiring these records.
§ 20.2106
Records of individual monitoring results.
(a)
Recordkeeping requirement.
Each licensee shall maintain records of doses received by all individuals for whom monitoring was required pursuant to § 20.1502, and records of doses received during planned special exposures, accidents, and emergency conditions. These records
5
must include, when applicable—
5
Assessments of dose equivalent and records made using units in effect before the licensee's adoption of this part need not be changed.
(1) The deep-dose equivalent to the whole body, lens dose equivalent, shallow-dose equivalent to the skin, and shallow-dose equivalent to the extremities;
(2) The estimated intake of radionuclides (see § 20.1202);
(3) The committed effective dose equivalent assigned to the intake of radionuclides;
(4) The specific information used to assess the committed effective dose equivalent pursuant to § 20.1204 (a) and (c), and when required by § 20.1502;
(5) The total effective dose equivalent when required by § 20.1202; and
(6) The total of the deep-dose equivalent and the committed dose to the organ receiving the highest total dose.
(b)
Recordkeeping frequency.
The licensee shall make entries of the records specified in paragraph (a) of this section at least annually.
(c)
Recordkeeping format.
The licensee shall maintain the records specified in paragraph (a) of this section on NRC Form 5, in accordance with the instructions for NRC Form 5, or in clear and legible records containing all the information required by NRC Form 5.
(d)
Privacy protection.
The records required under this section should be protected from public disclosure because of their personal privacy nature. These records are protected by most State privacy laws and, when transferred to the NRC, are protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, Public Law 93-579, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and the Commission's regulations in 10 CFR part 9.
(e) The licensee shall maintain the records of dose to an embryo/fetus with the records of dose to the declared pregnant woman. The declaration of pregnancy shall also be kept on file, but may be maintained separately from the dose records.
(f) The licensee shall retain the required form or record until the Commission terminates each pertinent license requiring this record. This includes records required under the standards for protection against radiation in effect prior to January 1, 1994.
[56 FR 23404, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20186, Apr. 25, 1995; 63 FR 39483, July 23, 1998]
§ 20.2107
Records of dose to individual members of the public.
(a) Each licensee shall maintain records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the dose limit for individual members of the public (see § 20.1301).
(b) The licensee shall retain the records required by paragraph (a) of this section until the Commission terminates each pertinent license requiring the record.
§ 20.2108
Records of waste disposal.
(a) Each licensee shall maintain records of the disposal of licensed materials made under §§ 20.2002, 20.2003, 20.2004, 20.2005, 10 CFR part 61 and disposal by burial in soil, including burials authorized before January 28, 1981.
6
6
A previous § 20.304 permitted burial of small quantities of licensed materials in soil before January 28, 1981, without specific Commission authorization.
(b) The licensee shall retain the records required by paragraph (a) of this section until the Commission terminates each pertinent license requiring the record. Requirements for disposition of these records, prior to license termination, are located in §§ 30.51, 40.61, 70.51, and 72.80 for activities licensed under these parts.
[56 FR 23404, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20186, Apr. 25, 1995; 61 FR 24673, May 16, 1996]
§ 20.2109
[Reserved]
§ 20.2110
Form of records.
Each record required by this part must be legible throughout the specified retention period. The record may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform provided that the copy or microform is authenticated by authorized personnel and that the microform is capable of producing a clear copy throughout the required retention period. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records, such as letters, drawings, and specifications, must include all pertinent information, such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.

# Subpart M—Reports

# Source:
56 FR 23406, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.2201
Reports of theft or loss of licensed material.
(a)
Telephone reports.
(1) Each licensee shall report by telephone as follows:
(i) Immediately after its occurrence becomes known to the licensee, any lost, stolen, or missing licensed material in an aggregate quantity equal to or greater than 1,000 times the quantity specified in appendix C to part 20 under such circumstances that it appears to the licensee that an exposure could result to persons in unrestricted areas; or
(ii) Within 30 days after the occurrence of any lost, stolen, or missing licensed material becomes known to the licensee, all licensed material in a quantity greater than 10 times the quantity specified in appendix C to part 20 that is still missing at this time.
(2) Reports must be made as follows:
(i) Licensees having an installed Emergency Notification System shall make the reports to the NRC Operations Center in accordance with § 50.72 of this chapter, and
(ii) All other licensees shall make reports by telephone to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the numbers specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
(b)
Written reports.
(1) Each licensee required to make a report under paragraph (a) of this section shall, within 30 days after making the telephone report, make a written report setting forth the following information:
(i) A description of the licensed material involved, including kind, quantity, and chemical and physical form; and
(ii) A description of the circumstances under which the loss or theft occurred; and
(iii) A statement of disposition, or probable disposition, of the licensed material involved; and
(iv) Exposures of individuals to radiation, circumstances under which the exposures occurred, and the possible total effective dose equivalent to persons in unrestricted areas; and
(v) Actions that have been taken, or will be taken, to recover the material; and
(vi) Procedures or measures that have been, or will be, adopted to ensure against a recurrence of the loss or theft of licensed material.
(2) Reports must be made as follows:
(i) For holders of an operating license for a nuclear power plant, the events included in paragraph (b) of this section must be reported in accordance with the procedures described in § 50.73(b), (c), (d), (e), and (g) of this chapter and must include the information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and
(ii) All other licensees shall make reports to the Administrator of the appropriate NRC Regional Office listed in appendix D to part 20.
(c) A duplicate report is not required under paragraph (b) of this section if the licensee is also required to submit a report pursuant to §§ 30.55(c), 37.57, 37.81, 40.64(c), 50.72, 50.73, 70.52, 73.27(b), 73.67(e)(3)(vii), 73.67(g)(3)(iii), 73.1205, or 150.19(c) of this chapter.
(d) Subsequent to filing the written report, the licensee shall also report any additional substantive information on the loss or theft within 30 days after the licensee learns of such information.
(e) The licensee shall prepare any report filed with the Commission pursuant to this section so that names of individuals who may have received exposure to radiation are stated in a separate and detachable part of the report.
[56 FR 23406, May 21, 1991, as amended at 58 FR 69220, Dec. 30, 1993; 60 FR 20186, Apr. 25, 1995; 66 FR 64738, Dec. 14, 2001; 67 FR 3585, Jan. 25, 2002; 78 FR 17006, Mar. 19, 2013; 85 FR 65661, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 15880, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 20.2202
Notification of incidents.
(a) Immediate notification. Notwithstanding any other requirements for notification, each licensee shall immediately report any event involving byproduct, source, or special nuclear material possessed by the licensee that may have caused or threatens to cause any of the following conditions—
(1) An individual to receive—
(i) A total effective dose equivalent of 25 rems (0.25 Sv) or more; or
(ii) A lens dose equivalent of 75 rems (0.75 Sv) or more; or
(iii) A shallow-dose equivalent to the skin or extremities of 250 rads (2.5 Gy) or more; or
(2) The release of radioactive material, inside or outside of a restricted area, so that, had an individual been present for 24 hours, the individual could have received an intake five times the annual limit on intake (the provisions of this paragraph do not apply to locations where personnel are not normally stationed during routine operations, such as hot-cells or process enclosures).
(b) Twenty-four hour notification. Each licensee shall, within 24 hours of discovery of the event, report any event involving loss of control of licensed material possessed by the licensee that may have caused, or threatens to cause, any of the following conditions:
(1) An individual to receive, in a period of 24 hours—
(i) A total effective dose equivalent exceeding 5 rems (0.05 Sv); or
(ii) A lens dose equivalent exceeding 15 rems (0.15 Sv); or
(iii) A shallow-dose equivalent to the skin or extremities exceeding 50 rems (0.5 Sv); or
(2) The release of radioactive material, inside or outside of a restricted area, so that, had an individual been present for 24 hours, the individual could have received an intake in excess of one occupational annual limit on intake (the provisions of this paragraph do not apply to locations where personnel are not normally stationed during routine operations, such as hot-cells or process enclosures).
(c) The licensee shall prepare any report filed with the Commission pursuant to this section so that names of individuals who have received exposure to radiation or radioactive material are stated in a separate and detachable part of the report.
(d) Reports made by licensees in response to the requirements of this section must be made as follows:
(1) Licensees having an installed Emergency Notification System shall make the reports required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section to the NRC Operations Center in accordance with 10 CFR 50.72; and
(2) All other licensees shall make the reports required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section by telephone to the NRC Headquarters Operations Center at the numbers specified in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
(e) The provisions of this section do not include doses that result from planned special exposures, that are within the limits for planned special exposures, and that are reported under § 20.2204.
[56 FR 23406, May 21, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 40766, Aug. 16, 1991; 57 FR 57879, Dec. 8, 1992; 59 FR 14086, Mar. 25, 1994; 63 FR 39483, July 23, 1998; 85 FR 65661, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 20.2203
Reports of exposures, radiation levels, and concentrations of radioactive material exceeding the constraints or limits.
(a)
Reportable events.
In addition to the notification required by § 20.2202, each licensee shall submit a written report within 30 days after learning of any of the following occurrences:
(1) Any incident for which notification is required by § 20.2202; or
(2) Doses in excess of any of the following:
(i) The occupational dose limits for adults in § 20.1201; or
(ii) The occupational dose limits for a minor in § 20.1207; or
(iii) The limits for an embryo/fetus of a declared pregnant woman in § 20.1208; or
(iv) The limits for an individual member of the public in § 20.1301; or
(v) Any applicable limit in the license; or
(vi) The ALARA constraints for air emissions established under § 20.1101(d); or
(3) Levels of radiation or concentrations of radioactive material in—
(i) A restricted area in excess of any applicable limit in the license; or
(ii) An unrestricted area in excess of 10 times any applicable limit set forth in this part or in the license (whether or not involving exposure of any individual in excess of the limits in § 20.1301); or
(4) For licensees subject to the provisions of EPA's generally applicable environmental radiation standards in 40
CFR part 190, levels of radiation or releases of radioactive material in excess of those standards, or of license conditions related to those standards.
(b)
Contents of reports.
(1) Each report required by paragraph (a) of this section must describe the extent of exposure of individuals to radiation and radioactive material, including, as appropriate:
(i) Estimates of each individual's dose; and
(ii) The levels of radiation and concentrations of radioactive material involved; and
(iii) The cause of the elevated exposures, dose rates, or concentrations; and
(iv) Corrective steps taken or planned to ensure against a recurrence, including the schedule for achieving conformance with applicable limits, ALARA constraints, generally applicable environmental standards, and associated license conditions.
(2) Each report filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section must include for each occupationally overexposed
1
individual: the name, Social Security account number, and date of birth. The report must be prepared so that this information is stated in a separate and detachable part of the report and must be clearly labeled “Privacy Act Information: Not for Public Disclosure.”
1
With respect to the limit for the embryo/fetus (§ 20.1208), the identifiers should be those of the declared pregnant woman.
(c) For holders of an operating license or a combined license for a nuclear power plant, the occurrences included in paragraph (a) of this section must be reported in accordance with the procedures described in §§ 50.73(b), (c), (d), (e), and (g) of this chapter, and must include the information required by paragraph (b) of this section. Occurrences reported in accordance with § 50.73 of this chapter need not be reported by a duplicate report under paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) All licensees, other than those holding an operating license or a combined license for a nuclear power plant, who make reports under paragraph (a) of this section shall submit the report in writing either by mail addressed to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, ATTN: Document Control Desk, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. A copy should be sent to the appropriate NRC Regional Office listed in appendix D to this part.
[56 FR 23406, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20186, Apr. 25, 1995; 61 FR 65127, Dec. 10, 1996; 68 FR 14308, Mar. 25, 2003; 68 FR 58801, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 49486, Aug. 28, 2007; 74 FR 62680, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74979, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 20.2204
Reports of planned special exposures.
The licensee shall submit a written report to the Administrator of the appropriate NRC Regional Office listed in appendix D to part 20 within 30 days following any planned special exposure conducted in accordance with § 20.1206, informing the Commission that a planned special exposure was conducted and indicating the date the planned special exposure occurred and the information required by § 20.2105.
[56 FR 23406, May 21, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 20186, Apr. 25, 1995]
§ 20.2205
Reports to individuals of exceeding dose limits.
When a licensee is required by §§ 20.2203 or 20.2204 to report to the Commission any exposure of an identified occupationally exposed individual, or an identified member of the public, to radiation or radioactive material, the licensee shall also provide the individual a report on his or her exposure data included in the report to Commission. This report must be transmitted
no later than the transmittal to the Commission.
[72 FR 68059, Dec. 4, 2007]
§ 20.2206
Reports of individual monitoring.
(a) This section applies to each person licensed by the Commission to—
(1) Operate a nuclear reactor designed to produce electrical or heat energy pursuant to § 50.21(b) or § 50.22 of this chapter or a testing facility as defined in § 50.2 of this chapter; or
(2) Possess or use byproduct material for purposes of radiography pursuant to parts 30 and 34 of this chapter; or
(3) Possess or use at any one time, for purposes of fuel processing, fabricating, or reprocessing, special nuclear material in a quantity exceeding 5,000 grams of contained uranium-235, uranium-233, or plutonium, or any combination thereof pursuant to part 70 of this chapter; or
(4) Possess high-level radioactive waste at a geologic repository operations area pursuant to part 60 or 63 of this chapter; or
(5) Possess spent fuel in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) pursuant to part 72 of this chapter; or
(6) Receive radioactive waste from other persons for disposal under part 61 of this chapter; or
(7) Possess or use at any time, for processing or manufacturing for distribution pursuant to parts 30, 32, 33 or 35 of this chapter, byproduct material in quantities exceeding any one of the following quantitites:
Radionuclide
Quantity of radionuclide
1
in curies
Cesium-137
1
Cobalt-60
1
Gold-198
100
Iodine-131
1
Iridium-192
10
Krypton-85
1,000
Promethium-147
10
Techetium-99m
1,000
1
The Commission may require as a license condition, or by rule, regulation, or order pursuant to § 20.2302, reports from licensees who are licensed to use radionuclides not on this list, in quantities sufficient to cause comparable radiation levels.
(b) Each licensee in a category listed in paragraph (a) of this section shall submit an annual report of the results of individual monitoring carried out by the licensee for each individual for whom monitoring was required by § 20.1502 during that year. The licensee may include additional data for individuals for whom monitoring was provided but not required. The licensee shall use Form NRC 5 or electronic media containing all the information required by Form NRC 5.
(c) The licensee shall file the report required by § 20.2206(b), covering the preceding year, on or before April 30 of each year. The licensee shall submit the report to the REIRS Project Manager by an appropriate method listed in § 20.1007 or via the REIRS Web site at
http://www.reirs.com.
[56 FR 23406, May 21, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 32072, July 15, 1991; 66 FR 55789, Nov. 2, 2001; 68 FR 58802, Oct. 10, 2003]
§ 20.2207
Reports of transactions involving nationally tracked sources.
Each licensee who manufactures, transfers, receives, disassembles, or disposes of a nationally tracked source shall complete and submit a National Source Tracking Transaction Report as specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section for each type of transaction.
(a) Each licensee who manufactures a nationally tracked source shall complete and submit a National Source Tracking Transaction Report. The report must include the following information:
(1) The name, address, and license number of the reporting licensee;
(2) The name of the individual preparing the report;
(3) The manufacturer, model, and serial number of the source;
(4) The radioactive material in the source;
(5) The initial source strength in becquerels (curies) at the time of manufacture; and
(6) The manufacture date of the source.
(b) Each licensee that transfers a nationally tracked source to another person shall complete and submit a National Source Tracking Transaction Report. The report must include the following information:
(1) The name, address, and license number of the reporting licensee;
(2) The name of the individual preparing the report;
(3) The name and license number of the recipient facility and the shipping address;
(4) The manufacturer, model, and serial number of the source or, if not available, other information to uniquely identify the source;
(5) The radioactive material in the source;
(6) The initial or current source strength in becquerels (curies);
(7) The date for which the source strength is reported;
(8) The shipping date;
(9) The estimated arrival date; and
(10) For nationally tracked sources transferred as waste under a Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest, the waste manifest number and the container identification of the container with the nationally tracked source.
(c) Each licensee that receives a nationally tracked source shall complete and submit a National Source Tracking Transaction Report. The report must include the following information:
(1) The name, address, and license number of the reporting licensee;
(2) The name of the individual preparing the report;
(3) The name, address, and license number of the person that provided the source;
(4) The manufacturer, model, and serial number of the source or, if not available, other information to uniquely identify the source;
(5) The radioactive material in the source;
(6) The initial or current source strength in becquerels (curies);
(7) The date for which the source strength is reported;
(8) The date of receipt; and
(9) For material received under a Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest, the waste manifest number and the container identification with the nationally tracked source.
(d) Each licensee that disassembles a nationally tracked source shall complete and submit a National Source Tracking Transaction Report. The report must include the following information:
(1) The name, address, and license number of the reporting licensee;
(2) The name of the individual preparing the report;
(3) The manufacturer, model, and serial number of the source or, if not available, other information to uniquely identify the source;
(4) The radioactive material in the source;
(5) The initial or current source strength in becquerels (curies);
(6) The date for which the source strength is reported;
(7) The disassemble date of the source.
(e) Each licensee who disposes of a nationally tracked source shall complete and submit a National Source Tracking Transaction Report. The report must include the following information:
(1) The name, address, and license number of the reporting licensee;
(2) The name of the individual preparing the report;
(3) The waste manifest number;
(4) The container identification with the nationally tracked source.
(5) The date of disposal; and
(6) The method of disposal.
(f) The reports discussed in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section must be submitted by the close of the next business day after the transaction. A single report may be submitted for multiple sources and transactions. The reports must be submitted to the National Source Tracking System by using:
(1) The on-line National Source Tracking System;
(2) Electronically using a computer-readable format;
(3) By facsimile;
(4) By mail to the address on the National Source Tracking Transaction Report Form (NRC Form 748); or
(5) By telephone with followup by facsimile or mail.
(g) Each licensee shall correct any error in previously filed reports or file a new report for any missed transaction within 5 business days of the discovery of the error or missed transaction. Such errors may be detected by
a variety of methods such as administrative reviews or by physical inventories required by regulation. In addition, each licensee shall reconcile the inventory of nationally tracked sources possessed by the licensee against that licensee's data in the National Source Tracking System. The reconciliation must be conducted during the month of January in each year. The reconciliation process must include resolving any discrepancies between the National Source Tracking System and the actual inventory by filing the reports identified by paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. By January 31 of each year, each licensee must submit to the National Source Tracking System confirmation that the data in the National Source Tracking System is correct.
[71 FR 65707, Nov. 8, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 59163, Oct. 19, 2007; 86 FR 43401, Aug. 9, 2021]

# Subpart N—Exemptions and Additional Requirements

# Source:
56 FR 23408, May 21, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 20.2301
Applications for exemptions.
The Commission may, upon application by a licensee or upon its own initiative, grant an exemption from the requirements of the regulations in this part if it determines the exemption is authorized by law and would not result in undue hazard to life or property.
§ 20.2302
Additional requirements.
The Commission may, by rule, regulation, or order, impose requirements on a licensee, in addition to those established in the regulations in this part, as it deems appropriate or necessary to protect health or to minimize danger to life or property.

# Subpart O—Enforcement
§ 20.2401
Violations.
(a) The Commission may obtain an injunction or other court order to prevent a violation of the provisions of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) A regulation or order issued pursuant to those Acts.
(b) The Commission may obtain a court order for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act:
(1) For violations of—
(i) Sections 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107 or 109 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act;
(iii) Any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; and
(iv) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under the sections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) For any violation for which a license may be revoked under Section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
[56 FR 23408, May 21, 1991; 56 FR 61352, Dec. 3, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 55071, Nov. 24, 1992]
§ 20.2402
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in §§ 20.1001 through 20.2402 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) this section.
(b) The regulations in §§ 20.1001 through 20.2402 that are not issued under Sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of Section 223 are as follows: §§ 20.1001, 20.1002, 20.1003, 20.1004, 20.1005, 20.1006, 20.1007, 20.1008, 20.1009, 20.1405, 20.1704, 20.1903, 20.1905, 20.2002, 20.2007, 20.2301, 20.2302, 20.2401, and 20.2402.
[57 FR 55071, Nov. 24, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 39089, July 21, 1997]
Pt. 20, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 20—Assigned Protection Factors for Respirators
a
Operating mode
Assigned
Protection
Factors
I. Air Purifying Respirators [Particulate
b
only]
c
:
Filtering facepiece disposable
d
Negative Pressure
(
d
)
Facepiece, half
e
Negative Pressure
10
Facepiece, full
Negative Pressure
100
Facepiece, half
Powered air-purifying respirators
50
Facepiece, full
Powered air-purifying respirators
1000
Helmet/hood
Powered air-purifying respirators
1000
Facepiece, loose-fitting
Powered air-purifying respirators
25
II. Atmosphere supplying respirators [particulate, gases and vapors
f
]:
1. Air-line respirator:
Facepiece, half
Demand
10
Facepiece, half
Continuous Flow
50
Facepiece, half
Pressure Demand
50
Facepiece, full
Demand
100
Facepiece, full
Continuous Flow
1000
Facepiece, full
Pressure Demand
1000
Helmet/hood
Continuous Flow
1000
Facepiece, loose-fitting
Continuous Flow
25
Suit
Continuous Flow
(
g
)
2. Self-contained breathing Apparatus (SCBA):
Facepiece, full
Demand
h
100
Facepiece, full
Pressure Demand
i
10,000
Facepiece, full
Demand, Recirculating
h
100
Facepiece, full
Positive Pressure Recirculating
i
10,000
III. Combination Respirators:
Any combination of air-purifying and atmosphere-supplying respirators
Assigned protection factor for type and mode of operation as listed above.
a
These assigned protection factors apply only in a respiratory protection program that meets the requirements of this Part. They are applicable only to airborne radiological hazards and may not be appropriate to circumstances when chemical or other respiratory hazards exist instead of, or in addition to, radioactive hazards. Selection and use of respirators for such circumstances must also comply with Department of Labor regulations.
Radioactive contaminants for which the concentration values in Table 1, Column 3 of Appendix B to Part 20 are based on internal dose due to inhalation may, in addition, present external exposure hazards at higher concentrations. Under these circumstances, limitations on occupancy may have to be governed by external dose limits.
b
Air purifying respirators with APF
100 must be equipped with particulate filters that are at least 95 percent efficient. Air purifying respirators with APF = 100 must be equipped with particulate filters that are at least 99 percent efficient. Air purifying respirators with APFs
100 must be equipped with particulate filters that are at least 99.97 percent efficient.
c
The licensee may apply to the Commission for the use of an APF greater than 1 for sorbent cartridges as protection against airborne radioactive gases and vapors (e.g., radioiodine).
d
Licensees may permit individuals to use this type of respirator who have not been medically screened or fit tested on the device provided that no credit be taken for their use in estimating intake or dose. It is also recognized that it is difficult to perform an effective positive or negative pressure pre-use user seal check on this type of device. All other respiratory protection program requirements listed in § 20.1703 apply. An assigned protection factor has not been assigned for these devices. However, an APF equal to 10 may be used if the licensee can demonstrate a fit factor of at least 100 by use of a validated or evaluated, qualitative or quantitative fit test.
e
Under-chin type only. No distinction is made in this Appendix between elastomeric half-masks with replaceable cartridges and those designed with the filter medium as an integral part of the facepiece (e.g., disposable or reusable disposable). Both types are acceptable so long as the seal area of the latter contains some substantial type of seal-enhancing material such as rubber or plastic, the two or more suspension straps are adjustable, the filter medium is at least 95 percent efficient and all other requirements of this Part are met.
f
The assigned protection factors for gases and vapors are not applicable to radioactive contaminants that present an absorption or submersion hazard. For tritium oxide vapor, approximately one-third of the intake occurs by absorption through the skin so that an overall protection factor of 3 is appropriate when atmosphere-supplying respirators are used to protect against tritium oxide. Exposure to radioactive noble gases is not considered a significant respiratory hazard, and protective actions for these contaminants should be based on external (submersion) dose considerations.
g
No NIOSH approval schedule is currently available for atmosphere supplying suits. This equipment may be used in an acceptable respiratory protection program as long as all the other minimum program requirements, with the exception of fit testing, are met (
i.e.
, § 20.1703).
h
The licensee should implement institutional controls to assure that these devices are not used in areas immediately dangerous to life or health (IDLH).
i
This type of respirator may be used as an emergency device in unknown concentrations for protection against inhalation hazards. External radiation hazards and other limitations to permitted exposure such as skin absorption shall be taken into account in these circumstances. This device may not be used by any individual who experiences perceptible outward leakage of breathing gas while wearing the device.
[64 FR 54558, Oct. 7, 1999; 64 FR 55524, Oct. 13, 1999]
Pt. 20, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 20—Annual Limits on Intake (ALIs) and Derived Air Concentrations (DACs) of Radionuclides for Occupational Exposure; Effluent Concentrations; Concentrations for Release to Sewerage

# Introduction
For each radionuclide table 1 indicates the chemical form which is to be used for selecting the appropriate ALI or DAC value. The ALIs and DACs for inhalation are given for an aerosol with an activity median aerodynamic diameter (AMAD) of 1 µm and for three classes (D,W,Y) of radioactive material, which refer to their retention (approximately days, weeks or years) in the pulmonary region of the lung. This classification applies to a range of clearance half-times of less than 10 days for D, for W from 10 to 100 days, and for Y greater than 100 days. The class (D, W, or Y) given in the column headed “Class” applies only to the inhalation ALIs and DACs given in table 1, columns 2 and 3. Table 2 provides concentration limits for airborne and liquid effluents released to the general environment. Table 3
provides concentration limits for discharges to sanitary sewer systems.

# Notation
The values in tables 1, 2, and 3 are presented in the computer “E” notation. In this notation a value of 6E−02 represents a value of 6 × 10
−2
or 0.06, 6E + 2 represents 6 × 10
2
or 600, and 6E + 0 represents 6 × 10
0
or 6.

# Table 1 “Occupational”
Note that the columns in table 1, of this appendix captioned “Oral Ingestion ALI,” “Inhalation ALI,” and “DAC,” are applicable to occupational exposure to radioactive material.
The ALIs in this appendix are the annual intakes of a given radionuclide by “Reference Man” which would result in either (1) a committed effective dose equivalent of 5 rems (stochastic ALI) or (2) a committed dose equivalent of 50 rems to an organ or tissue (non-stochastic ALI). The stochastic ALIs were derived to result in a risk, due to irradiation of organs and tissues, comparable to the risk associated with deep dose equivalent to the whole body of 5 rems. The derivation includes multiplying the committed dose equivalent to an organ or tissue by a weighting factor, w
T
. This weighting factor is the proportion of the risk of stochastic effects resulting from irradiation of the organ or tissue, T, to the total risk of stochastic effects when the whole body is irradiated uniformly. The values of w
T
are listed under the definition of weighting factor in § 20.1003. The non-stochastic ALIs were derived to avoid non-stochastic effects, such as prompt damage to tissue or reduction in organ function.
A value of w
T
= 0.06 is applicable to each of the five organs or tissues in the “remainder” category receiving the highest dose equivalents, and the dose equivalents of all other remaining tissues may be disregarded. The following parts of the GI tract—stomach, small intestine, upper large intestine, and lower large intestine—are to be treated as four separate organs.
Note that the dose equivalents for extremities (hands and forearms, feet and lower legs), skin, and lens of the eye are not considered in computing the committed effective dose equivalent, but are subject to limits that must be met separately.
When an ALI is defined by the stochastic dose limit, this value alone, is given. When an ALI is determined by the non-stochastic dose limit to an organ, the organ or tissue to which the limit applies is shown, and the ALI for the stochastic limit is shown in parentheses. (Abbreviated organ or tissue designations are used: LLI wall = lower large intestine wall; St. wall = stomach wall; Blad wall = bladder wall; and Bone surf = bone surface.)
The use of the ALIs listed first, the more limiting of the stochastic and non-stochastic ALIs, will ensure that non-stochastic effects are avoided and that the risk of stochastic effects is limited to an acceptably low value. If, in a particular situation involving a radionuclide for which the non-stochastic ALI is limiting, use of that non-stochastic ALI is considered unduly conservative, the licensee may use the stochastic ALI to determine the committed effective dose equivalent. However, the licensee shall also ensure that the 50-rem dose equivalent limit for any organ or tissue is not exceeded by the sum of the external deep dose equivalent plus the internal committed dose to that organ (not the effective dose). For the case where there is no external dose contribution, this would be demonstrated if the sum of the fractions of the nonstochastic ALIs (ALI
ns
) that contribute to the committed dose equivalent to the organ receiving the highest dose does not exceed unity (
i.e.
, Σ (intake (in µCi) of each radionuclide/ALI
ns
)
1.0). If there is an external deep dose equivalent contribution of H
d
then this sum must be less than l−(H
d
/50) instead of being
1.0.
The derived air concentration (DAC) values are derived limits intended to control chronic occupational exposures. The relationship between the DAC and the ALI is given by: DAC = ALI(in µCi)/(2000 hours per working year × 60 minutes/hour × 2 × 10
4
ml per minute) = [ALI/2.4 × 10
9
] µCi/ml, where 2 × 10
4
ml is the volume of air breathed per minute at work by “Reference Man” under working conditions of “light work.”
The DAC values relate to one of two modes of exposure: either external submersion or the internal committed dose equivalents resulting from inhalation of radioactive materials. Derived air concentrations based upon submersion are for immersion in a semi-infinite cloud of uniform concentration and apply to each radionuclide separately.
The ALI and DAC values relate to exposure to the single radionuclide named, but also include contributions from the in-growth of any daughter radionuclide produced in the body by the decay of the parent. However, intakes that include both the parent and daughter radionuclides should be treated by the general method appropriate for mixtures.
The value of ALI and DAC do not apply directly when the individual both ingests and inhales a radionuclide, when the individual is exposed to a mixture of radionuclides by either inhalation or ingestion or both, or when the individual is exposed to both internal and external radiation (see § 20.1202). When an individual is exposed to radioactive materials which fall under several of the translocation classifications (
i.e.
, Class D, Class W, or Class Y) of the same radionuclide, the exposure may be evaluated as if it were a mixture of different radionuclides.
It should be noted that the classification of a compound as Class D, W, or Y is based on the chemical form of the compound and does not take into account the radiological half-life of different radioisotopes. For this reason, values are given for Class D, W, and Y compounds, even for very short-lived radionuclides.

# Table 2
The columns in table 2 of this appendix captioned “Effluents,” “Air,” and “Water,” are applicable to the assessment and control of dose to the public, particularly in the implementation of the provisions of § 20.1302. The concentration values given in columns 1 and 2 of table 2 are equivalent to the radionuclide concentrations which, if inhaled or ingested continuously over the course of a year, would produce a total effective dose equivalent of 0.05 rem (50 millirem or 0.5 millisieverts).
Consideration of non-stochastic limits has not been included in deriving the air and water effluent concentration limits because non-stochastic effects are presumed not to occur at the dose levels established for individual members of the public. For radionuclides, where the non-stochastic limit was governing in deriving the occupational DAC, the stochastic ALI was used in deriving the corresponding airborne effluent limit in table 2. For this reason, the DAC and airborne effluent limits are not always proportional as was the case in appendix B to §§ 20.1-20.601.
The air concentration values listed in table 2, column 1, were derived by one of two methods. For those radionuclides for which the stochastic limit is governing, the occupational stochastic inhalation ALI was divided by 2.4 × 10
9
ml, relating the inhalation ALI to the DAC, as explained above, and then divided by a factor of 300. The factor of 300 includes the following components: a factor of 50 to relate the 5-rem annual occupational dose limit to the 0.1-rem limit for members of the public, a factor of 3 to adjust for the difference in exposure time and the inhalation rate for a worker and that for members of the public; and a factor of 2 to adjust the occupational values (derived for adults) so that they are applicable to other age groups.
For those radionuclides for which submersion (external dose) is limiting, the occupational DAC in table 1, column 3, was divided by 219. The factor of 219 is composed of a factor of 50, as described above, and a factor of 4.38 relating occupational exposure for 2,000 hours per year to full-time exposure (8,760 hours per year). Note that an additional factor of 2 for age considerations is not warranted in the submersion case.
The water concentrations were derived by taking the most restrictive occupational stochastic oral ingestion ALI and dividing by 7.3 × 10
7
. The factor of 7.3 × 10
7
(ml) includes the following components: the factors of 50 and 2 described above and a factor of 7.3 × 10
5
(ml) which is the annual water intake of “Reference Man.”
Note 2 of this appendix provides groupings of radionuclides which are applicable to unknown mixtures of radionuclides. These groupings (including occupational inhalation ALIs and DACs, air and water effluent concentrations and sewerage) require demonstrating that the most limiting radionuclides in successive classes are absent. The limit for the unknown mixture is defined when the presence of one of the listed radionuclides cannot be definitely excluded either from knowledge of the radionuclide composition of the source or from actual measurements.

# Table 3 “Sewer Disposal”
The monthly average concentrations for release to sanitary sewers are applicable to the provisions in § 20.2003. The concentration values were derived by taking the most restrictive occupational stochastic oral ingestion ALI and dividing by 7.3 × 10
6
(ml). The factor of 7.3 × 10
6
(ml) is composed of a factor of 7.3 × 10
5
(ml), the annual water intake by “Reference Man,” and a factor of 10, such that the concentrations, if the sewage released by the licensee were the only source of water ingested by a reference man during a year, would result in a committed effective dose equivalent of 0.5 rem.
List of Elements
Name
Atomic
Symbol
No.
Actinium
Ac
89
Aluminum
Al
13
Americium
Am
95
Antimony
Sb
51
Argon
Ar
18
Arsenic
As
33
Astatine
At
85
Barium
Ba
56
Berkelium
Bk
97
Beryllium
Be
4
Bismuth
Bi
83
Bromine
Br
35
Cadmium
Cd
48
Calcium
Ca
20
Californium
Cf
98
Carbon
C
6
Cerium
Ce
58
Cesium
Cs
55
Chlorine
Cl
17
Chromium
Cr
24
Cobalt
Co
27
Copper
Cu
29
Curium
Cm
96
Dysprosium
Dy
66
Einsteinium
Es
99
Erbium
Er
68
Europium
Eu
63
Fermium
Fm
100
Fluorine
F
9
Francium
Fr
87
Gadolinium
Gd
64
Gallium
Ga
31
Germanium
Ge
32
Gold
Au
79
Hafnium
Hf
72
Holmium
Ho
67
Hydrogen
H
1
Indium
In
49
Iodine
I
53
Iridium
Ir
77
Iron
Fe
26
Krypton
Kr
36
Lanthanum
La
57
Lead
Pb
82
Lutetium
Lu
71
Magnesium
Mg
12
Manganese
Mn
25
Mendelevium
Md
101
Mercury
Hg
80
Molybdenum
Mo
42
Neodymium
Nd
60
Neptunium
Np
93
Nickel
Ni
28
Niobium
Nb
41
Nitrogen
N
7
Osmium
Os
76
Oxygen
O
8
Palladium
Pd
46
Phosphorus
P
15
Platinum
Pt
78
Plutonium
Pu
94
Polonium
Po
84
Potassium
K
19
Praseodymium
Pr
59
Promethium
Pm
61
Protactinium
Pa
91
Radium
Ra
88
Radon
Rn
86
Rhenium
Re
75
Rhodium
Rh
45
Rubidium
Rb
37
Ruthenium
Ru
44
Samarium
Sm
62
Scandium
Sc
21
Selenium
Se
34
Silicon
Si
14
Silver
Ag
47
Sodium
Na
11
Strontium
Sr
38
Sulfur
S
16
Tantalum
Ta
73
Technetium
Tc
43
Tellurium
Te
52
Terbium
Tb
65
Thallium
Tl
81
Thorium
Th
90
Thulium
Tm
69
Tin
Sn
50
Titanium
Ti
22
Tungsten
W
74
Uranium
U
92
Vanadium
V
23
Xenon
Xe
54
Ytterbium
Yb
70
Yttrium
Y
39
Zinc
Zn
30
Zirconium
Zr
40
ER30NO10.229
ER30NO10.230
EC02OC91.003
EC02OC91.004
EC02OC91.005
EC02OC91.006
EC02OC91.007
EC02OC91.008
EC02OC91.009
EC02OC91.010
EC02OC91.011
EC02OC91.012
EC02OC91.013
EC02OC91.014
EC02OC91.015
EC02OC91.016
EC02OC91.017
EC02OC91.018
EC02OC91.019
EC02OC91.020
EC02OC91.021
EC02OC91.022
EC02OC91.023
EC02OC91.024
EC02OC91.025
EC02OC91.026
EC02OC91.027
EC02OC91.028
EC02OC91.029
EC02OC91.030
EC02OC91.031
EC02OC91.032
EC02OC91.033
EC02OC91.034
EC02OC91.035
EC02OC91.036
EC02OC91.037
EC02OC91.038
EC02OC91.039
EC02OC91.040
EC02OC91.041
EC02OC91.042
EC02OC91.043
EC02OC91.044
EC02OC91.045
EC02OC91.046
EC02OC91.047
EC02OC91.048
EC02OC91.049
EC02OC91.050
EC02OC91.051
EC02OC91.052
EC02OC91.053
EC02OC91.054
[56 FR 23409, May 21, 1991; 56 FR 61352, Dec. 3, 1991, as amended at 57 FR 57879, Dec. 8, 1992. Redesignated at 58 FR 67659, Dec. 22, 1993, as amended at 71 FR 15007, Mar. 27, 2006; 72 FR 55922, Oct. 1, 2007; 75 FR 73938, Nov. 30, 2010]
Pt. 20, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 20—Quantities
1

# of Licensed Material Requiring Labeling
Radionuclide
Quantity (µCi)
Hydrogen-3
1,000
Beryllium-7
1,000
Beryllium-10
1
Carbon-11
1,000
Carbon-14
100
Fluorine-18
1,000
Sodium-22
10
Sodium-24
100
Magnesium-28
100
Aluminum-26
10
Silicon-31
1,000
Silicon-32
1
Phosphorus-32
10
Phosphorus-33
100
Sulfur-35
100
Chlorine-36
10
Chlorine-38
1,000
Chlorine-39
1,000
Argon-39
1,000
Argon-41
1,000
Potassium-40
100
Potassium-42
1,000
Potassium-43
1,000
Potassium-44
1,000
Potassium-45
1,000
Calcium-41
100
Calcium-45
100
Calcium-47
100
Scandium-43
1,000
Scandium-44m
100
Scandium-44
100
Scandium-46
10
Scandium-47
100
Scandium-48
100
Scandium-49
1,000
Titanium-44
1
Titanium-45
1,000
Vanadium-47
1,000
Vanadium-48
100
Vanadium-49
1,000
Chromium-48
1,000
Chromium-49
1,000
Chromium-51
1,000
Manganese-51
1,000
Manganese-52m
1,000
Manganese-52
100
Manganese-53
1,000
Manganese-54
100
Manganese-56
1,000
Iron-52
100
Iron-55
100
Iron-59
10
Iron-60
1
Cobalt-55
100
Cobalt-56
10
Cobalt-57
100
Cobalt-58m
1,000
Cobalt-58
100
Cobalt-60m
1,000
Cobalt-60
1
Cobalt-61
1,000
Cobalt-62m
1,000
Nickel-56
100
Nickel-57
100
Nickel-59
100
Nickel-63
100
Nickel-65
1,000
Nickel-66
10
Copper-60
1,000
Copper-61
1,000
Copper-64
1,000
Copper-67
1,000
Zinc-62
100
Zinc-63
1,000
Zinc-65
10
Zinc-69m
100
Zinc-69
1,000
Zinc-71m
1,000
Zinc-72
100
Gallium-65
1,000
Gallium-66
100
Gallium-67
1,000
Gallium-68
1,000
Gallium-70
1,000
Gallium-72
100
Gallium-73
1,000
Germanium-66
1,000
Germanium-67
1,000
Germanium-68
10
Germanium-69
1,000
Germanium-71
1,000
Germanium-75
1,000
Germanium-77
1,000
Germanium-78
1,000
Arsenic-69
1,000
Arsenic-70
1,000
Arsenic-71
100
Arsenic-72
100
Arsenic-73
100
Arsenic-74
100
Arsenic-76
100
Arsenic-77
100
Arsenic-78
1,000
Selenium-70
1,000
Selenium-73m
1,000
Selenium-73
100
Selenium-75
100
Selenium-79
100
Selenium-81m
1,000
Selenium-81
1,000
Selenium-83
1,000
Bromine-74m
1,000
Bromine-74
1,000
Bromine-75
1,000
Bromine-76
100
Bromine-77
1,000
Bromine-80m
1,000
Bromine-80
1,000
Bromine-82
100
Bromine-83
1,000
Bromine-84
1,000
Krypton-74
1,000
Krypton-76
1,000
Krypton-77
1,000
Krypton-79
1,000
Krypton-81
1,000
Krypton-83m
1,000
Krypton-85m
1,000
Krypton-85
1,000
Krypton-87
1,000
Krypton-88
1,000
Rubidium-79
1,000
Rubidium-81m
1,000
Rubidium-81
1,000
Rubidium-82m
1,000
Rubidium-83
100
Rubidium-84
100
Rubidium-86
100
Rubidium-87
100
Rubidium-88
1,000
Rubidium-89
1,000
Strontium-80
100
Strontium-81
1,000
Strontium-83
100
Strontium-85m
1,000
Strontium-85
100
Strontium-87m
1,000
Strontium-89
10
Strontium-90
0.1
Strontium-91
100
Strontium-92
100
Yttrium-86m
1,000
Yttrium-86
100
Yttrium-87
100
Yttrium-88
10
Yttrium-90m
1,000
Yttrium-90
10
Yttrium-91m
1,000
Yttrium-91
10
Yttrium-92
100
Yttrium-93
100
Yttrium-94
1,000
Yttrium-95
1,000
Zirconium-86
100
Zirconium-88
10
Zirconium-89
100
Zirconium-93
1
Zirconium-95
10
Zirconium-97
100
Niobium-88
1,000
Niobium-89m (66 min)
1,000
Niobium-89 (122 min)
1,000
Niobium-90
100
Niobium-93m
10
Niobium-94
1
Niobium-95m
100
Niobium-95
100
Niobium-96
100
Niobium-97
1,000
Niobium-98
1,000
Molybdenum-90
100
Molybdenum-93m
100
Molybdenum-93
10
Molybdenum-99
100
Molybdenum-101
1,000
Technetium-93m
1,000
Technetium-93
1,000
Technetium-94m
1,000
Technetium-94
1,000
Technetium-96m
1,000
Technetium-96
100
Technetium-97m
100
Technetium-97
1,000
Technetium-98
10
Technetium-99m
1,000
Technetium-99
100
Technetium-101
1,000
Technetium-104
1,000
Ruthenium-94
1,000
Ruthenium-97
1,000
Ruthenium-103
100
Ruthenium-105
1,000
Ruthenium-106
1
Rhodium-99m
1,000
Rhodium-99
100
Rhodium-100
100
Rhodium-101m
1,000
Rhodium-101
10
Rhodium-102m
10
Rhodium-102
10
Rhodium-103m
1,000
Rhodium-105
100
Rhodium-106m
1,000
Rhodium-107
1,000
Palladium-100
100
Palladium-101
1,000
Palladium-103
100
Palladium-107
10
Palladium-109
100
Silver-102
1,000
Silver-103
1,000
Silver-104m
1,000
Silver-104
1,000
Silver-105
100
Silver-106m
100
Silver-106
1,000
Silver-108m
1
Silver-110m
10
Silver-111
100
Silver-112
100
Silver-115
1,000
Cadmium-104
1,000
Cadmium-107
1,000
Cadmium-109
1
Cadmium-113m
0.1
Cadmium-113
100
Cadmium-115m
10
Cadmium-115
100
Cadmium-117m
1,000
Cadmium-117
1,000
Indium-109
1,000
Indium-110 (69.1min.)
1,000
Indium-110
(4.9h)
1,000
Indium-111
100
Indium-112
1,000
Indium-113m
1,000
Indium-114m
10
Indium-115m
1,000
Indium-115
100
Indium-116m
1,000
Indium-117m
1,000
Indium-117
1,000
Indium-119m
1,000
Tin-110
100
Tin-111
1,000
Tin-113
100
Tin-117m
100
Tin-119m
100
Tin-121m
100
Tin-121
1,000
Tin-123m
1,000
Tin-123
10
Tin-125
10
Tin-126
10
Tin-127
1,000
Tin-128
1,000
Antimony-115
1,000
Antimony-116m
1,000
Antimony-116
1,000
Antimony-117
1,000
Antimony-118m
1,000
Antimony-119
1,000
Antimony-120 (16min.)
1,000
Antimony-120 (5.76d)
100
Antimony-122
100
Antimony-124m
1,000
Antimony-124
10
Antimony-125
100
Antimony-126m
1,000
Antimony-126
100
Antimony-127
100
Antimony-128 (10.4min.)
1,000
Antimony-128 (9.01h)
100
Antimony-129
100
Antimony-130
1,000
Antimony-131
1,000
Tellurium-116
1,000
Tellurium-121m
10
Tellurium-121
100
Tellurium-123m
10
Tellurium-123
100
Tellurium-125m
10
Tellurium-127m
10
Tellurium-127
1,000
Tellurium-129m
10
Tellurium-129
1,000
Tellurium-131m
10
Tellurium-131
100
Tellurium-132
10
Tellurium-133m
100
Tellurium-133
1,000
Tellurium-134
1,000
Iodine-120m
1,000
Iodine-120
100
Iodine-121
1,000
Iodine-123
100
Iodine-124
10
Iodine-125
1
Iodine-126
1
Iodine-128
1,000
Iodine-129
1
Iodine-130
10
Iodine-131
1
Iodine-132m
100
Iodine-132
100
Iodine-133
10
Iodine-134
1,000
Iodine-135
100
Xenon-120
1,000
Xenon-121
1,000
Xenon-122
1,000
Xenon-123
1,000
Xenon-125
1,000
Xenon-127
1,000
Xenon-129m
1,000
Xenon-131m
1,000
Xenon-133m
1,000
Xenon-133
1,000
Xenon-135m
1,000
Xenon-135
1,000
Xenon-138
1,000
Cesium-125
1,000
Cesium-127
1,000
Cesium-129
1,000
Cesium-130
1,000
Cesium-131
1,000
Cesium-132
100
Cesium-134m
1,000
Cesium-134
10
Cesium-135m
1,000
Cesium-135
100
Cesium-136
10
Cesium-137
10
Cesium-138
1,000
Barium-126
1,000
Barium-128
100
Barium-131m
1,000
Barium-131
100
Barium-133m
100
Barium-133
100
Barium-135m
100
Barium-139
1,000
Barium-140
100
Barium-141
1,000
Barium-142
1,000
Lanthanum-131
1,000
Lanthanum-132
100
Lanthanum-135
1,000
Lanthanum-137
10
Lanthanum-138
100
Lanthanum-140
100
Lanthanum-141
100
Lanthanum-142
1,000
Lanthanum-143
1,000
Cerium-134
100
Cerium-135
100
Cerium-137m
100
Cerium-137
1,000
Cerium-139
100
Cerium-141
100
Cerium-143
100
Cerium-144
1
Praseodymium-136
1,000
Praseodymium-137
1,000
Praseodymium-138m
1,000
Praseodymium-139
1,000
Praseodymium-142m
1,000
Praseodymium-142
100
Praseodymium-143
100
Praseodymium-144
1,000
Praseodymium-145
100
Praseodymium-147
1,000
Neodymium-136
1,000
Neodymium-138
100
Neodymium-139m
1,000
Neodymium-139
1,000
Neodymium-141
1,000
Neodymium-147
100
Neodymium-149
1,000
Neodymium-151
1,000
Promethium-141
1,000
Promethium-143
100
Promethium-144
10
Promethium-145
10
Promethium-146
1
Promethium-147
10
Promethium-148m
10
Promethium-148
10
Promethium-149
100
Promethium-150
1,000
Promethium-151
100
Samarium-141m
1,000
Samarium-141
1,000
Samarium-142
1,000
Samarium-145
100
Samarium-146
1
Samarium-147
100
Samarium-151
10
Samarium-153
100
Samarium-155
1,000
Samarium-156
1,000
Europium-145
100
Europium-146
100
Europium-147
100
Europium-148
10
Europium-149
100
Europium-150 (12.62h)
100
Europium-150 (34.2y)
1
Europium-152m
100
Europium-152
1
Europium-154
1
Europium-155
10
Europium-156
100
Europium-157
100
Europium-158
1,000
Gadolinium-145
1,000
Gadolinium-146
10
Gadolinium-147
100
Gadolinium-148
0.001
Gadolinium-149
100
Gadolinium-151
10
Gadolinium-152
100
Gadolinium-153
10
Gadolinium-159
100
Terbium-147
1,000
Terbium-149
100
Terbium-150
1,000
Terbium-151
100
Terbium-153
1,000
Terbium-154
100
Terbium-155
1,000
Terbium-156m (5.0h)
1,000
Terbium-156m (24.4h)
1,000
Terbium-156
100
Terbium-157
10
Terbium-158
1
Terbium-160
10
Terbium-161
100
Dysprosium-155
1,000
Dysprosium-157
1,000
Dysprosium-159
100
Dysprosium-165
1,000
Dysprosium-166
100
Holmium-155
1,000
Holmium-157
1,000
Holmium-159
1,000
Holmium-161
1,000
Holmium-162m
1,000
Holmium-162
1,000
Holmium-164m
1,000
Holmium-164
1,000
Holmium-166m
1
Holmium-166
100
Holmium-167
1,000
Erbium-161
1,000
Erbium-165
1,000
Erbium-169
100
Erbium-171
100
Erbium-172
100
Thulium-162
1,000
Thulium-166
100
Thulium-167
100
Thulium-170
10
Thulium-171
10
Thulium-172
100
Thulium-173
100
Thulium-175
1,000
Ytterbium-162
1,000
Ytterbium-166
100
Ytterbium-167
1,000
Ytterbium-169
100
Ytterbium-175
100
Ytterbium-177
1,000
Ytterbium-178
1,000
Lutetium-169
100
Lutetium-170
100
Lutetium-171
100
Lutetium-172
100
Lutetium-173
10
Lutetium-174m
10
Lutetium-174
10
Lutetium-176m
1,000
Lutetium-176
100
Lutetium-177m
10
Lutetium-177
100
Lutetium-178m
1,000
Lutetium-178
1,000
Lutetium-179
1,000
Hafnium-170
100
Hafnium-172
1
Hafnium-173
1,000
Hafnium-175
100
Hafnium-177m
1,000
Hafnium-178m
0.1
Hafnium-179m
10
Hafnium-180m
1,000
Hafnium-181
10
Hafnium-182m
1,000
Hafnium-182
0.1
Hafnium-183
1,000
Hafnium-184
100
Tantalum-172
1,000
Tantalum-173
1,000
Tantalum-174
1,000
Tantalum-175
1,000
Tantalum-176
100
Tantalum-177
1,000
Tantalum-178
1,000
Tantalum-179
100
Tantalum-180m
1,000
Tantalum-180
100
Tantalum-182m
1,000
Tantalum-182
10
Tantalum-183
100
Tantalum-184
100
Tantalum-185
1,000
Tantalum-186
1,000
Tungsten-176
1,000
Tungsten-177
1,000
Tungsten-178
1,000
Tungsten-179
1,000
Tungsten-181
1,000
Tungsten-185
100
Tungsten-187
100
Tungsten-188
10
Rhenium-177
1,000
Rhenium-178
1,000
Rhenium-181
1,000
Rhenium-182 (12.7h)
1,000
Rhenium-182 (64.0h)
100
Rhenium-184m
10
Rhenium-184
100
Rhenium-186m
10
Rhenium-186
100
Rhenium-187
1,000
Rhenium-188m
1,000
Rhenium-188
100
Rhenium-189
100
Osmium-180
1,000
Osmium-181
1,000
Osmium-182
100
Osmium-185
100
Osmium-189m
1,000
Osmium-191m
1,000
Osmium-191
100
Osmium-193
100
Osmium-194
1
Iridium-182
1,000
Iridium-184
1,000
Iridium-185
1,000
Iridium-186
100
Iridium-187
1,000
Iridium-188
100
Iridium-189
100
Iridium-190m
1,000
Iridium-190
100
Iridium-192 (73.8d)
1
Iridium-192m (1.4min.)
10
Iridium-194m
10
Iridium-194
100
Iridium-195m
1,000
Iridium-195
1,000
Platinum-186
1,000
Platinum-188
100
Platinum-189
1,000
Platinum-191
100
Platinum-193m
100
Platinum-193
1,000
Platinum-195m
100
Platinum-197m
1,000
Platinum-197
100
Platinum-199
1,000
Platinum-200
100
Gold-193
1,000
Gold-194
100
Gold-195
10
Gold-198m
100
Gold-198
100
Gold-199
100
Gold-200m
100
Gold-200
1,000
Gold-201
1,000
Mercury-193m
100
Mercury-193
1,000
Mercury-194
1
Mercury-195m
100
Mercury-195
1,000
Mercury-197m
100
Mercury-197
1,000
Mercury-199m
1,000
Mercury-203
100
Thallium-194m
1,000
Thallium-194
1,000
Thallium-195
1,000
Thallium-197
1,000
Thallium-198m
1,000
Thallium-198
1,000
Thallium-199
1,000
Thallium-200
1,000
Thallium-201
1,000
Thallium-202
100
Thallium-204
100
Lead-195m
1,000
Lead-198
1,000
Lead-199
1,000
Lead-200
100
Lead-201
1,000
Lead-202m
1,000
Lead-202
10
Lead-203
1,000
Lead-205
100
Lead-209
1,000
Lead-210
0.01
Lead-211
100
Lead-212
1
Lead-214
100
Bismuth-200
1,000
Bismuth-201
1,000
Bismuth-202
1,000
Bismuth-203
100
Bismuth-205
100
Bismuth-206
100
Bismuth-207
10
Bismuth-210m
0.1
Bismuth-210
1
Bismuth-212
10
Bismuth-213
10
Bismuth-214
100
Polonium-203
1,000
Polonium-205
1,000
Polonium-207
1,000
Polonium-210
0.1
Astatine-207
100
Astatine-211
10
Radon-220
1
Radon-222
1
Francium-222
100
Francium-223
100
Radium-223
0.1
Radium-224
0.1
Radium-225
0.1
Radium-226
0.1
Radium-227
1,000
Radium-228
0.1
Actinium-224
1
Actinium-225
0.01
Actinium-226
0.1
Actinium-227
0.001
Actinium-228
1
Thorium-226
10
Thorium-227
0.01
Thorium-228
0.001
Thorium-229
0.001
Thorium-230
0.001
Thorium-231
100
Thorium-232
100
Thorium-234
10
Thorium-natural
100
Protactinium-227
10
Protactinium-228
1
Protactinium-230
0.1
Protactinium-231
0.001
Protactinium-232
1
Protactinium-233
100
Protactinium-234
100
Uranium-230
0.01
Uranium-231
100
Uranium-232
0.001
Uranium-233
0.001
Uranium-234
0.001
Uranium-235
0.001
Uranium-236
0.001
Uranium-237
100
Uranium-238
100
Uranium-239
1,000
Uranium-240
100
Uranium-natural
100
Neptunium-232
100
Neptunium-233
1,000
Neptunium-234
100
Neptunium-235
100
Neptunium-236 (1.15 × 10
5
y)
0.001
Neptunium-236 (22.5h)
1
Neptunium-237
0.001
Neptunium-238
10
Neptunium-239
100
Neptunium-240
1,000
Plutonium-234
10
Plutonium-235
1,000
Plutonium-236
0.001
Plutonium-237
100
Plutonium-238
0.001
Plutonium-239
0.001
Plutonium-240
0.001
Plutonium-241
0.01
Plutonium-242
0.001
Plutonium-243
1,000
Plutonium-244
0.001
Plutonium-245
100
Americium-237
1,000
Americium-238
100
Americium-239
1,000
Americium-240
100
Americium-241
0.001
Americium-242m
0.001
Americium-242
10
Americium-243
0.001
Americium-244m
100
Americium-244
10
Americium-245
1,000
Americium-246m
1,000
Americium-246
1,000
Curium-238
100
Curium-240
0.1
Curium-241
1
Curium-242
0.01
Curium-243
0.001
Curium-244
0.001
Curium-245
0.001
Curium-246
0.001
Curium-247
0.001
Curium-248
0.001
Curium-249
1,000
Berkelium-245
100
Berkelium-246
100
Berkelium-247
0.001
Berkelium-249
0.1
Berkelium-250
10
Californium-244
100
Californium-246
1
Californium-248
0.01
Californium-249
0.001
Californium-250
0.001
Californium-251
0.001
Californium-252
0.001
Californium-253
0.1
Californium-254
0.001
Any alpha emitting radionuclide not listed above or mixtures of alpha emitters of unknown composition
0.001
Einsteinium-250
100
Einsteinium-251
100
Einsteinium-253
0.1
Einsteinium-254m
1
Einsteinium-254
0.01
Fermium-252
1
Fermium-253
1
Fermium-254
10
Fermium-255
1
Fermium-257
0.01
Mendelevium-257
10
Mendelevium-258
0.01
Any radionuclide other than alpha emitting radionuclides not listed above, or mixtures of beta emitters of unknown composition
0.01
1
The quantities listed above were derived by taking
1/10
th of the most restrictive ALI listed in table 1, columns 1 and 2, of appendix B to §§ 20.1001-20.2401 of this part, rounding to the nearest factor of 10, and arbitrarily constraining the values listed between 0.001 and 1,000 µCi. Values of 100 µCi have been assigned for radionuclides having a radioactive half-life in excess of 10
9
years (except rhenium, 1000 µCi) to take into account their low specific activity.
Note:
For purposes of §§ 20.1902(e), 20.1905(a), and 20.2201(a) where there is involved a combination of radionuclides in known amounts, the limit for the combination should be derived as follows: determine, for each radionuclide in the combination, the ratio between the quantity present in the combination and the limit otherwise established for the specific radionuclide when not in combination. The sum of such ratios for all radionuclides in the combination may not exceed “1” (
i.e.
, “unity”).
[56 FR 23465, May 21, 1991; 56 FR 61352, Dec. 3, 1991. Redesignated and amended at 58 FR 67659, Dec. 22, 1993; 60 FR 20186, Apr. 25, 1995]
Pt. 20, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 20—United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Offices
Address
Telephone (24 hour)
E-Mail
NRC Headquarters Operations Center
USNRC, Division of Preparedness and Response, Washington, DC 20555-0001
(301) 816-5100
(301) 951-0550
(301) 816-5151 (fax)
Hoo.Hoc@nrc.gov
Region I: Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont
USNRC, Region I, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415
(610) 337-5000, (800) 432-1156 TDD: (301) 415-5575
RidsRgn1MailCenter@nrc.gov.
Region II: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, Virgin Islands, and West Virginia
USNRC, Region II, 245 Peachtree Center Avenue, NE., Suite 1200, Atlanta, GA 30303-1257.
(404) 997-4000
(800) 877-8510
TDD: (301) 415-5575
RidsRgn2MailCenter@nrc.gov
Region III: Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio and Wisconsin
USNRC, Region III, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352
(630) 829-9500
(800) 522-3025
TDD: (301) 415-5575
RidsRgn3MailCenter@nrc.gov
Region IV: Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, Wyoming, and the U.S. territories and possessions in the Pacific
US NRC, Region IV, 1600 E Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511
(817) 200-1100, (800) 952-9677, TDD: (301) 415-5575
RidsRgn4MailCenter@nrc.gov.
[68 FR 58802, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 15007, Mar. 27, 2006; 73 FR 30457, May 28, 2008; 75 FR 21980, Apr. 27, 2010; 76 FR 72084, Nov. 22, 2011; 77 FR 39905, July 6, 2012; 79 FR 66602, Nov. 10, 2014; 85 FR 65661, Oct. 16, 2020; 87 FR 20696, Apr. 8, 2022; 87 FR 68030, Nov. 14, 2022]
Pt. 20, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 20— Nationally Tracked Source Thresholds
The Terabecquerel (TBq) values are the regulatory standard. The curie (Ci) values specified are obtained by converting from the TBq value. The curie values are provided for practical usefulness only and are rounded after conversion.
Radioactive material
Category 1
(TBq)
Category 1
(Ci)
Category 2
(TBq)
Category 2
(Ci)
Actinium-227
20
540
0.2
5.4
Americium-241
60
1,600
0.6
16
Americium-241/Be
60
1,600
0.6
16
Californium-252
20
540
0.2
5.4
Cobalt-60
30
810
0.3
8.1
Curium-244
50
1,400
0.5
14
Cesium-137
100
2,700
1
27
Gadolinium-153
1,000
27,000
10
270
Iridium-192
80
2,200
0.8
22
Plutonium-238
60
1,600
0.6
16
Plutonium-239/Be
60
1,600
0.6
16
Polonium-210
60
1,600
0.6
16
Promethium-147
40,000
1,100,000
400
11,000
Radium-226
40
1,100
0.4
11
Selenium-75
200
5,400
2
54
Strontium-90
1,000
27,000
10
270
Thorium-228
20
540
0.2
5.4
Thorium-229
20
540
0.2
5.4
Thulium-170
20,000
540,000
200
5,400
Ytterbium-169
300
8,100
3
81
[71 FR 65708, Nov. 8, 2006]
Appendix F to Part 20 [Reserved]
Pt. 20, App. G

# Appendix G to Part 20—Requirements for Transfers of Low-Level Radioactive Waste Intended for Disposal at Licensed Land Disposal Facilities and Manifests

# I. Manifest
A waste generator, collector, or processor who transports, or offers for transportation, low-level radioactive waste intended for ultimate disposal at a licensed low-level radioactive waste land disposal facility must prepare a Manifest (OMB Control Numbers 3150-0164, -0165, and -0166) reflecting information requested on applicable NRC Forms 540 (Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest (Shipping Paper)) and 541 (Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest (Container and Waste Description)) and, if necessary, on an applicable NRC Form 542 (Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest (Manifest Index and Regional Compact Tabulation)). NRC Forms 540 and 540A must be completed and must physically accompany the pertinent low-level waste shipment. Upon agreement between shipper and consignee, NRC Forms 541 and 541A and 542 and 542A may be completed, transmitted, and stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records on the respective forms. Licensees are not required by NRC to comply with the manifesting requirements of this part when they ship:
(a) LLW for processing and expect its return (
i.e.
, for storage under their license) prior to disposal at a licensed land disposal facility;
(b) LLW that is being returned to the licensee who is the “waste generator” or “generator,” as defined in this part; or
(c) Radioactively contaminated material to a “waste processor” that becomes the processor's “residual waste.”
For guidance in completing these forms, refer to the instructions that accompany the forms. Copies of manifests required by this appendix may be legible carbon copies, photocopies, or computer printouts that reproduce the data in the format of the uniform manifest.
NRC Forms 540, 540A, 541, 541A, 542 and 542A, and the accompanying instructions, in hard copy, may be obtained by writing or calling the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001, telephone (301) 415-7232, or by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov
and selecting forms from the index found on the home page.
This appendix includes information requirements of the Department of Transportation, as codified in 49 CFR part 172. Information on hazardous, medical, or other waste, required to meet Environmental Protection Agency regulations, as codified in 40 CFR parts 259, 261 or elsewhere, is not addressed in this section, and must be provided
on the required EPA forms. However, the required EPA forms must accompany the Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest required by this chapter.
As used in this appendix, the following definitions apply:
Chelating agent
has the same meaning as that given in § 61.2 of this chapter.
Chemical description
means a description of the principal chemical characteristics of a low-level radioactive waste.
Computer-readable medium
means that the regulatory agency's computer can transfer the information from the medium into its memory.
Consignee
means the designated receiver of the shipment of low-level radioactive waste.
Decontamination facility
means a facility operating under a Commission or Agreement State license whose principal purpose is decontamination of equipment or materials to accomplish recycle, reuse, or other waste management objectives, and, for purposes of this part, is not considered to be a consignee for LLW shipments.
Disposal container
means a container principally used to confine low-level radioactive waste during disposal operations at a land disposal facility (also see “high integrity container”). Note that for some shipments, the disposal container may be the transport package.
EPA identification number
means the number received by a transporter following application to the Administrator of EPA as required by 40 CFR part 263.
Generator
means a licensee operating under a Commission or Agreement State license who (1) is a waste generator as defined in this part, or (2) is the licensee to whom waste can be attributed within the context of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1985 (e.g., waste generated as a result of decontamination or recycle activities).
High integrity container
(HIC) means a container commonly designed to meet the structural stability requirements of § 61.56 of this chapter, and to meet Department of Transportation requirements for a Type A package.
Land disposal facility
has the same meaning as that given in § 61.2 of this chapter.
NRC Forms 540, 540A, 541, 541A, 542, and 542A
are official NRC Forms referenced in this appendix. Licensees need not use originals of these NRC Forms as long as any substitute forms are equivalent to the original documentation in respect to content, clarity, size, and location of information. Upon agreement between the shipper and consignee, NRC Forms 541 (and 541A) and NRC Forms 542 (and 542A) may be completed, transmitted, and stored in electronic media. The electronic media must have the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records in the format of the uniform manifest.
Package
means the assembly of components necessary to ensure compliance with the packaging requirements of DOT regulations, together with its radioactive contents, as presented for transport.
Physical description
means the items called for on NRC Form 541 to describe a low-level radioactive waste.
Residual waste
means low-level radioactive waste resulting from processing or decontamination activities that cannot be easily separated into distinct batches attributable to specific waste generators. This waste is attributable to the processor or decontamination facility, as applicable.
Shipper
means the licensed entity (
i.e.
, the waste generator, waste collector, or waste processor) who offers low-level radioactive waste for transportation, typically consigning this type of waste to a licensed waste collector, waste processor, or land disposal facility operator.
Shipping paper
means NRC Form 540 and, if required, NRC Form 540A which includes the information required by DOT in 49 CFR part 172.
Source material
has the same meaning as that given in § 40.4 of this chapter.
Special nuclear material
has the same meaning as that given in § 70.4 of this chapter.
Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest
or
uniform manifest
means the combination of NRC Forms 540, 541, and, if necessary, 542, and their respective continuation sheets as needed, or equivalent.
Waste collector
means an entity, operating under a Commission or Agreement State license, whose principal purpose is to collect and consolidate waste generated by others, and to transfer this waste, without processing or repackaging the collected waste, to another licensed waste collector, licensed waste processor, or licensed land disposal facility.
Waste description
means the physical, chemical and radiological description of a low-level radioactive waste as called for on NRC Form 541.
Waste generator
means an entity, operating under a Commission or Agreement State license, who (1) possesses any material or component that contains radioactivity or is radioactively contaminated for which the licensee foresees no further use, and (2) transfers this material or component to a licensed land disposal facility or to a licensed waste collector or processor for handling or treatment prior to disposal. A licensee performing processing or decontamination services may be a “waste generator” if the transfer of low-level radioactive waste from its facility is defined as “residual waste.”
Waste processor
means an entity, operating under a Commission or Agreement State license, whose principal purpose is to process,
repackage, or otherwise treat low-level radioactive material or waste generated by others prior to eventual transfer of waste to a licensed low-level radioactive waste land disposal facility.
Waste type
means a waste within a disposal container having a unique physical description (
i.e.
, a specific waste descriptor code or description; or a waste sorbed on or solidified in a specifically defined media).

# Information Requirements

# A. General Information
The shipper of the radioactive waste, shall provide the following information on the uniform manifest:
1. The name, facility address, and telephone number of the licensee shipping the waste;
2. An explicit declaration indicating whether the shipper is acting as a waste generator, collector, processor, or a combination of these identifiers for purposes of the manifested shipment; and
3. The name, address, and telephone number, or the name and EPA identification number for the carrier transporting the waste.

# B. Shipment Information
The shipper of the radioactive waste shall provide the following information regarding the waste shipment on the uniform manifest:
1. The date of the waste shipment;
2. The total number of packages/disposal containers;
3. The total disposal volume and disposal weight in the shipment;
4. The total radionuclide activity in the shipment;
5. The activity of each of the radionuclides H-3, C-14, Tc-99, and I-129 contained in the shipment; and
6. The total masses of U-233, U-235, and plutonium in special nuclear material, and the total mass of uranium and thorium in source material.

# C. Disposal Container and Waste Information
The shipper of the radioactive waste shall provide the following information on the uniform manifest regarding the waste and each disposal container of waste in the shipment:
1. An alphabetic or numeric identification that uniquely identifies each disposal container in the shipment;
2. A physical description of the disposal container, including the manufacturer and model of any high integrity container;
3. The volume displaced by the disposal container;
4. The gross weight of the disposal container, including the waste;
5. For waste consigned to a disposal facility, the maximum radiation level at the surface of each disposal container;
6. A physical and chemical description of the waste;
7. The total weight percentage of chelating agent for any waste containing more than 0.1% chelating agent by weight, plus the identity of the principal chelating agent;
8. The approximate volume of waste within a container;
9. The sorbing or solidification media, if any, and the identity of the solidification media vendor and brand name;
10. The identities and activities of individual radionuclides contained in each container, the masses of U-233, U-235, and plutonium in special nuclear material, and the masses of uranium and thorium in source material. For discrete waste types (
i.e.
, activated materials, contaminated equipment, mechanical filters, sealed source/devices, and wastes in solidification/stabilization media), the identities and activities of individual radionuclides associated with or contained on these waste types within a disposal container shall be reported;
11. The total radioactivity within each container; and
12. For wastes consigned to a disposal facility, the classification of the waste pursuant to § 61.55 of this chapter. Waste not meeting the structural stability requirements of § 61.56(b) of this chapter must be identified.

# D. Uncontainerized Waste Information
The shipper of the radioactive waste shall provide the following information on the uniform manifest regarding a waste shipment delivered without a disposal container:
1. The approximate volume and weight of the waste;
2. A physical and chemical description of the waste;
3. The total weight percentage of chelating agent if the chelating agent exceeds 0.1% by weight, plus the identity of the principal chelating agent;
4. For waste consigned to a disposal facility, the classification of the waste pursuant to § 61.55 of this chapter. Waste not meeting the structural stability requirements of § 61.56(b) of this chapter must be identified;
5. The identities and activities of individual radionuclides contained in the waste, the masses of U-233, U-235, and plutonium in special nuclear material, and the masses of uranium and thorium in source material; and
6. For wastes consigned to a disposal facility, the maximum radiation levels at the surface of the waste.

# E. Multi-Generator Disposal Container Information
This section applies to disposal containers enclosing mixtures of waste originating from different generators. (Note: The origin of the LLW resulting from a processor's activities may be attributable to one or more “generators” (including “waste generators”) as defined in this part). It also applies to mixtures of wastes shipped in an uncontainerized form, for which portions of the mixture within the shipment originate from different generators.
1. For homogeneous mixtures of waste, such as incinerator ash, provide the waste description applicable to the mixture and the volume of the waste attributed to each generator.
2. For heterogeneous mixtures of waste, such as the combined products from a large compactor, identify each generator contributing waste to the disposal container, and, for discrete waste types (
i.e.
, activated materials, contaminated equipment, mechanical filters, sealed source/devices, and wastes in solidification/stabilization media), the identities and activities of individual radionuclides contained on these waste types within the disposal container. For each generator, provide the following:
(a) The volume of waste within the disposal container;
(b) A physical and chemical description of the waste, including the solidification agent, if any;
(c) The total weight percentage of chelating agents for any disposal container containing more than 0.1% chelating agent by weight, plus the identity of the principal chelating agent;
(d) The sorbing or solidification media, if any, and the identity of the solidification media vendor and brand name if the media is claimed to meet stability requirements in 10 CFR 61.56(b); and
(e) Radionuclide identities and activities contained in the waste, the masses of U-233, U-235, and plutonium in special nuclear material, and the masses of uranium and thorium in source material if contained in the waste.

# II. Certification
An authorized representative of the waste generator, processor, or collector shall certify by signing and dating the shipment manifest that the transported materials are properly classified, described, packaged, marked, and labeled and are in proper condition for transportation according to the applicable regulations of the Department of Transportation and the Commission. A collector in signing the certification is certifying that nothing has been done to the collected waste which would invalidate the waste generator's certification.

# III. Control and Tracking
A. Any licensee who transfers radioactive waste to a land disposal facility or a licensed waste collector shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs A.1 through 9 of this section. Any licensee who transfers waste to a licensed waste processor for waste treatment or repackaging shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs A.4 through 9 of this section. A licensee shall:
1. Prepare all wastes so that the waste is classified according to § 61.55 and meets the waste characteristics requirements in § 61.56 of this chapter;
2. Label each disposal container (or transport package if potential radiation hazards preclude labeling of the individual disposal container) of waste to identify whether it is Class A waste, Class B waste, Class C waste, or greater then Class C waste, in accordance with § 61.55 of this chapter;
3. Conduct a quality assurance program to assure compliance with §§ 61.55 and 61.56 of this chapter (the program must include management evaluation of audits);
4. Prepare the NRC Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest as required by this appendix;
5. Forward a copy or electronically transfer the Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest to the intended consignee so that either (i) receipt of the manifest precedes the LLW shipment or (ii) the manifest is delivered to the consignee with the waste at the time the waste is transferred to the consignee. Using both (i) and (ii) is also acceptable;
6. Include NRC Form 540 (and NRC Form 540A, if required) with the shipment regardless of the option chosen in paragraph A.5 of this section;
7. Receive acknowledgement of the receipt of the shipment in the form of a signed copy of NRC Form 540;
8. Retain a copy of or electronically store the Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest and documentation of acknowledgement of receipt as the record of transfer of licensed material as required by 10 CFR parts 30, 40, and 70 of this chapter; and
9. For any shipments or any part of a shipment for which acknowledgement of receipt has not been received within the times set forth in this appendix, conduct an investigation in accordance with paragraph E of this appendix.
B. Any waste collector licensee who handles only prepackaged waste shall:
1. Acknowledge receipt of the waste from the shipper within one week of receipt by returning a signed copy of NRC Form 540;
2. Prepare a new manifest to reflect consolidated shipments that meet the requirements of this appendix. The waste collector shall ensure that, for each container of waste
in the shipment, the manifest identifies the generator of that container of waste;
3. Forward a copy or electronically transfer the Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest to the intended consignee so that either: (i) Receipt of the manifest precedes the LLW shipment or (ii) the manifest is delivered to the consignee with the waste at the time the waste is transferred to the consignee. Using both (i) and (ii) is also acceptable;
4. Include NRC Form 540 (and NRC Form 540A, if required) with the shipment regardless of the option chosen in paragraph B.3 of this section;
5. Receive acknowledgement of the receipt of the shipment in the form of a signed copy of NRC Form 540;
6. Retain a copy of or electronically store the Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest and documentation of acknowledgement of receipt as the record of transfer of licensed material as required by 10 CFR parts 30, 40, and 70 of this chapter;
7. For any shipments or any part of a shipment for which acknowledgement of receipt has not been received within the times set forth in this appendix, conduct an investigation in accordance with paragraph E of this appendix; and
8. Notify the shipper and the Administrator of the nearest Commission Regional Office listed in appendix D of this part when any shipment, or part of a shipment, has not arrived within 60 days after receipt of an advance manifest, unless notified by the shipper that the shipment has been cancelled.
C. Any licensed waste processor who treats or repackages waste shall:
1. Acknowledge receipt of the waste from the shipper within one week of receipt by returning a signed copy of NRC Form 540;
2. Prepare a new manifest that meets the requirements of this appendix. Preparation of the new manifest reflects that the processor is responsible for meeting these requirements. For each container of waste in the shipment, the manifest shall identify the waste generators, the preprocessed waste volume, and the other information as required in paragraph I.E. of this appendix;
3. Prepare all wastes so that the waste is classified according to § 61.55 of this chapter and meets the waste characteristics requirements in § 61.56 of this chapter;
4. Label each package of waste to identify whether it is Class A waste, Class B waste, or Class C waste, in accordance with §§ 61.55 and 61.57 of this chapter;
5. Conduct a quality assurance program to assure compliance with §§ 61.55 and 61.56 of this chapter (the program shall include management evaluation of audits);
6. Forward a copy or electronically transfer the Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest to the intended consignee so that either: (i) Receipt of the manifest precedes the LLW shipment or (ii) the manifest is delivered to the consignee with the waste at the time the waste is transferred to the consignee. Using both (i) and (ii) is also acceptable;
7. Include NRC Form 540 (and NRC Form 540A, if required) with the shipment regardless of the option chosen in paragraph C.6 of this section;
8. Receive acknowledgement of the receipt of the shipment in the form of a signed copy of NRC Form 540;
9. Retain a copy of or electronically store the Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest and documentation of acknowledgement of receipt as the record of transfer of licensed material as required by 10 CFR parts 30, 40, and 70 of this chapter;
10. For any shipment or any part of a shipment for which acknowledgement of receipt has not been received within the times set forth in this appendix, conduct an investigation in accordance with paragraph E of this appendix; and
11. Notify the shipper and the Administrator of the nearest Commission Regional Office listed in appendix D of this part when any shipment, or part of a shipment, has not arrived within 60 days after receipt of an advance manifest, unless notified by the shipper that the shipment has been cancelled.
D. The land disposal facility operator shall:
1. Acknowledge receipt of the waste within one week of receipt by returning, as a minimum, a signed copy of NRC Form 540 to the shipper. The shipper to be notified is the licensee who last possessed the waste and transferred the waste to the operator. If any discrepancy exists between materials listed on the Uniform Low-Level Radioactive Waste Manifest and materials received, copies or electronic transfer of the affected forms must be returned indicating the discrepancy;
2. Maintain copies of all completed manifests and electronically store the information required by 10 CFR 61.80(l) until the Commission terminates the license; and
3. Notify the shipper and the Administrator of the nearest Commission Regional Office listed in appendix D of this part when any shipment, or part of a shipment, has not arrived within 60 days after receipt of an advance manifest, unless notified by the shipper that the shipment has been cancelled.
E. Any shipment or part of a shipment for which acknowledgement is not received within the times set forth in this section must:
1. Be investigated by the shipper if the shipper has not received notification or receipt within 20 days after transfer; and
2. Be traced and reported. The investigation shall include tracing the shipment and filing a report with the nearest Commission Regional Office listed in appendix D to this
part. Each licensee who conducts a trace investigation shall file a written report with the appropriate NRC Regional Office within 2 weeks of completion of the investigation.
[60 FR 15664, Mar. 27, 1995, as amended at 60 FR 25983, May 16, 1995; 68 FR 58802, Oct. 10, 2003; 73 FR 30457, May 28, 2008; 80 FR 74979, Dec. 1, 2015]
Pt. 21

# PART 21—REPORTING OF DEFECTS AND NONCOMPLIANCE

# General Provisions
Sec.
21.1
Purpose.
21.2
Scope.
21.3
Definitions.
21.4
Interpretations.
21.5
Communications.
21.6
Posting requirements.
21.7
Exemptions.
21.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.

# Notification
21.21
Notification of failure to comply or existence of a defect and its evaluation.

# Procurement Documents
21.31
Procurement documents.

# Inspections, Records
21.41
Inspections.
21.51
Maintenance and inspection of records.

# Enforcement
21.61
Failure to notify.
21.62
Criminal penalties.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 53, 63, 81, 103, 104, 161, 223, 234, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2073, 2093, 2111, 2133, 2134, 2201, 2273, 2282, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 206 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5846); Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, secs. 135, 141 (42 U.S.C. 10155, 10161); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Source:
42 FR 28893, June 6, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 21.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part establish procedures and requirements for implementation of section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974. That section requires any individual director or responsible officer of a firm constructing, owning, operating or supplying the components of any facility or activity which is licensed or otherwise regulated pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, who obtains information reasonably indicating: (a) That the facility, activity or basic component supplied to such facility or activity fails to comply with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or any applicable rule, regulation, order, or license of the Commission relating to substantial safety hazards or (b) that the facility, activity, or basic component supplied to such facility or activity contains defects, which could create a substantial safety hazard, to immediately notify the Commission of such failure to comply or such defect, unless he has actual knowledge that the Commission has been adequately informed of such defect or failure to comply.
§ 21.2
Scope.
(a) The regulations in this part apply, except as specifically provided otherwise in parts 31, 34, 35, 39, 40, 60, 61, 63, 70, or part 72 of this chapter, to:
(1) Each individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity applying for or holding a license or permit under the regulations in this chapter to possess, use, or transfer within the United States source material, byproduct material, special nuclear material, and/or spent fuel and high-level radioactive waste, or to construct, manufacture, possess, own, operate, or transfer within the United States, any production or utilization facility or independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) or monitored retrievable storage installation (MRS); and each director and responsible officer of such a licensee;
(2) Each individual, corporation, partnership, or other entity doing business within the United States, and each director and responsible officer of such an organization, that constructs a production or utilization facility licensed for manufacture, construction, or operation under parts 50 or 52 of this chapter, an ISFSI for the storage of spent fuel licensed under part 72 of this chapter, an MRS for the storage of spent fuel or high-level radioactive waste under part 72 of this chapter, or a geologic repository for the disposal of high-level radioactive waste under part 60 or 63 of this chapter; or supplies
basic components for a facility or activity licensed, other than for export, under parts 30, 40, 50, 52, 60, 61, 63, 70, 71, or part 72 of this chapter;
(3) Each individual, corporation, partnership, or other entity doing business within the United States, and each director and responsible officer of such an organization, applying for a design certification rule under part 52 of this chapter; or supplying basic components with respect to that design certification, and each individual, corporation, partnership, or other entity doing business within the United States, and each director and responsible officer of such an organization, whose application for design certification has been granted under part 52 of this chapter, or who has supplied or is supplying basic components with respect to that design certification;
(4) Each individual, corporation, partnership, or other entity doing business within the United States, and each director and responsible officer of such an organization, applying for or holding a standard design approval under part 52 of this chapter; or supplying basic components with respect to a standard design approval under part 52 of this chapter;
(b) For persons licensed to construct a facility under either a construction permit issued under § 50.23 of this chapter or a combined license under part 52 of this chapter (for the period of construction until the date that the Commission makes the finding under § 52.103(g) of this chapter), or to manufacture a facility under part 52 of this chapter, evaluation of potential defects and failures to comply and reporting of defects and failures to comply under § 50.55(e) of this chapter satisfies each person's evaluation, notification, and reporting obligation to report defects and failures to comply under this part and the responsibility of individual directors and responsible officers of these licensees to report defects under Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974.
(c) For persons licensed to operate a nuclear power plant under part 50 or part 52 of this chapter, evaluation of potential defects and appropriate reporting of defects under §§ 50.72, 50.73, or §§ 73.1200 and 73.1205 of this chapter, satisfies each person's evaluation, notification, and reporting obligation to report defects under this part, and the responsibility of individual directors and responsible officers of these licensees to report defects under Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974.
(d) Nothing in these regulations should be deemed to preclude either an individual, a manufacturer, or a supplier of a commercial grade item (as defined in § 21.3) not subject to the regulations in this part from reporting to the Commission, a known or suspected defect or failure to comply and, as authorized by law, the identity of anyone so reporting will be withheld from disclosure. NRC regional offices and headquarters will accept collect telephone calls from individuals who wish to speak to NRC representatives concerning nuclear safety-related problems. The location and telephone numbers of the four regions (answered during regular working hours), are listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter. The telephone numbers of the NRC Headquarters Operations Center (answered 24 hours a day—including holidays) are listed in appendix A to part 73 of this chapter.
(e) The regulations in this part apply in accordance with 10 CFR 76.60 to each individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity required to obtain a certificate of compliance or an approved compliance plan under part 76 of this chapter.
[56 FR 36089, July 31, 1991, as amended at 59 FR 14086, Mar. 25, 1994; 59 FR 48959, Sept. 23, 1994; 60 FR 48373, Sept. 19, 1995; 66 FR 55790, Nov. 2, 2001; 72 FR 49486, Aug. 28, 2007; 85 FR 65661, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 15880, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 21.3
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Basic component.
(1)(i) When applied to nuclear power plants licensed under 10 CFR part 50 or part 52 of this chapter, basic component means a structure, system, or component, or part thereof that affects its safety function necessary to assure:
(A) The integrity of the reactor coolant pressure boundary;
(B) The capability to shut down the reactor and maintain it in a safe-shutdown condition; or
(C) The capability to prevent or mitigate the consequences of accidents which could result in potential offsite exposures comparable to those referred to in §§ 50.34(a)(1), 50.67(b)(2), or 100.11 of this chapter, as applicable.
(ii) Basic components are items designed and manufactured under a quality assurance program complying with appendix B to part 50 of this chapter, or commercial grade items which have successfully completed the dedication process.
(2) When applied to standard design certifications under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter and standard design approvals under part 52 of this chapter, basic component means the design or procurement information approved or to be approved within the scope of the design certification or approval for a structure, system, or component, or part thereof, that affects its safety function necessary to assure:
(i) The integrity of the reactor coolant pressure boundary;
(ii) The capability to shut down the reactor and maintain it in a safe-shutdown condition; or
(iii) The capability to prevent or mitigate the consequences of accidents which could result in potential offsite exposures comparable to those referred to in §§ 50.34(a)(1), 50.67(b)(2), or 100.11 of this chapter, as applicable.
(3) When applied to other facilities and other activities licensed under 10 CFR parts 30, 40, 50 (other than nuclear power plants), 60, 61, 63, 70, 71, or 72 of this chapter, basic component means a structure, system, or component, or part thereof, that affects their safety function, that is directly procured by the licensee of a facility or activity subject to the regulations in this part and in which a defect or failure to comply with any applicable regulation in this chapter, order, or license issued by the Commission could create a substantial safety hazard.
(4) In all cases, basic component includes safety-related design, analysis, inspection, testing, fabrication, replacement of parts, or consulting services that are associated with the component hardware, design certification, design approval, or information in support of an early site permit application under part 52 of this chapter, whether these services are performed by the component supplier or others.
Commercial grade item.
(1) When applied to nuclear power plants licensed pursuant to 10 CFR part 50, commercial grade item means a structure, system, or component, or part thereof that affects its safety function, that was not designed and manufactured as a basic component. Commercial grade items do not include items where the design and manufacturing process require in-process inspections and verifications to ensure that defects or failures to comply are identified and corrected (
i.e.
, one or more critical characteristics of the item cannot be verified).
(2) When applied to facilities and activities licensed pursuant to 10 CFR parts 30, 40, 50 (other than nuclear power plants), 60, 61, 63, 70, 71, or 72, commercial grade item means an item that is:
(i) Not subject to design or specification requirements that are unique to those facilities or activities;
(ii) Used in applications other than those facilities or activities; and
(iii) To be ordered from the manufacturer/supplier on the basis of specifications set forth in the manufacturer's published product description (for example, a catalog).
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
Constructing
or
construction
means the analysis, design, manufacture, fabrication, placement, erection, installation, modification, inspection, or testing of a facility or activity which is subject to the regulations in this part and consulting services related to the facility or activity that are safety related.
Critical characteristics.
When applied to nuclear power plants licensed pursuant to 10 CFR part 50, critical characteristics are those important design, material, and performance characteristics of a commercial grade item that, once verified, will provide reasonable assurance that the item will perform its intended safety function.
Dedicating entity.
When applied to nuclear power plants licensed pursuant to 10 CFR part 50, dedicating entity means the organization that performs the dedication process. Dedication may
be performed by the manufacturer of the item, a third-party dedicating entity, or the licensee itself. The dedicating entity, pursuant to § 21.21(c) of this part, is responsible for identifying and evaluating deviations, reporting defects and failures to comply for the dedicated item, and maintaining auditable records of the dedication process.
Dedication.
(1) When applied to nuclear power plants licensed pursuant to 10 CFR part 50, dedication is an acceptance process undertaken to provide reasonable assurance that a commercial grade item to be used as a basic component will perform its intended safety function and, in this respect, is deemed equivalent to an item designed and manufactured under a 10 CFR part 50, appendix B, quality assurance program. This assurance is achieved by identifying the critical characteristics of the item and verifying their acceptability by inspections, tests, or analyses performed by the purchaser or third-party dedicating entity after delivery, supplemented as necessary by one or more of the following: commercial grade surveys; product inspections or witness at holdpoints at the manufacturer's facility, and analysis of historical records for acceptable performance. In all cases, the dedication process must be conducted in accordance with the applicable provisions of 10 CFR part 50, appendix B. The process is considered complete when the item is designated for use as a basic component.
(2) When applied to facilities and activities licensed pursuant to 10 CFR parts 30, 40, 50 (other than nuclear power plants), 60, 61, 63, 70, 71, or 72, dedication occurs after receipt when that item is designated for use as a basic component.
Defect
means:
(1) A deviation in a basic component delivered to a purchaser for use in a facility or an activity subject to the regulations in this part if, on the basis of an evaluation, the deviation could create a substantial safety hazard;
(2) The installation, use, or operation of a basic component containing a defect as defined in this section;
(3) A deviation in a portion of a facility subject to the early site permit, standard design certification, standard design approval, construction permit, combined license or manufacturing licensing requirements of part 50 or part 52 of this chapter, provided the deviation could, on the basis of an evaluation, create a substantial safety hazard and the portion of the facility containing the deviation has been offered to the purchaser for acceptance;
(4) A condition or circumstance involving a basic component that could contribute to the exceeding of a safety limit, as defined in the technical specifications of a license for operation issued under part 50 or part 52 of this chapter; or
(5) An error, omission or other circumstance in a design certification, or standard design approval that, on the basis of an evaluation, could create a substantial safety hazard.
Deviation
means a departure from the technical requirements included in a procurement document, or specified in early site permit information, a standard design certification or standard design approval.
Director
means an individual, appointed or elected according to law, who is authorized to manage and direct the affairs of a corporation, partnership or other entity. In the case of an individual proprietorship,
director
means the individual.
Discovery
means the completion of the documentation first identifying the existence of a deviation or failure to comply potentially associated with a substantial safety hazard within the evaluation procedures discussed in § 21.21(a).
Evaluation
means the process of determining whether a particular deviation could create a substantial hazard or determining whether a failure to comply is associated with a substantial safety hazard.
Notification
means the telephonic communication to the NRC Operations Center or written transmittal of information to the NRC Document Control Desk.
Operating or operation
means the operation of a facility or the conduct of a licensed activity which is subject to the regulations in this part and consulting services related to operations that are safety related.
Procurement document
means a contract that defines the requirements which facilities or basic components must meet in order to be considered acceptable by the purchaser.
Responsible officer
means the president, vice-president or other individual in the organization of a corporation, partnership, or other entity who is vested with executive authority over activities subject to this part.
Substantial safety hazard
means a loss of safety function to the extent that there is a major reduction in the degree of protection provided to public health and safety for any facility or activity licensed or otherwise approved or regulated by the NRC, other than for export, under parts 30, 40, 50, 52, 60, 61, 63, 70, 71, or 72 of this chapter.
Supplying
or
supplies
means contractually responsible for a basic component used or to be used in a facility or activity which is subject to the regulations in this part.
[42 FR 28893, June 6, 1977; 42 FR 36803, July 18, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 48622, Oct. 19, 1978; 46 FR 58283, Dec. 1, 1981; 47 FR 57480, Dec. 27, 1982; 56 FR 36089, July 31, 1991; 59 FR 5519, Feb. 7, 1994; 60 FR 48373, Sept. 19, 1995; 61 FR 65171, Dec. 11, 1996; 64 FR 72000, Dec. 23, 1999; 66 FR 55790, Nov. 2, 2001; 72 FR 49486, Aug. 28, 2007; 84 FR 63567, Nov. 18, 2019]
§ 21.4
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 21.5
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified in this part, written communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part must be addressed to the NRC's Document Control Desk, and sent by mail to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. In the case of a licensee or permit holder, a copy of the communication must also be sent to the appropriate Regional Administrator at the address specified in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter.
[72 FR 49487, Aug. 28, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 62680, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74979, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 21.6
Posting requirements.
(a)(1) Each individual, partnership, corporation, dedicating entity, or other entity subject to the regulations in this part shall post current copies of—
(i) The regulations in this part;
(ii) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974; and
(iii) Procedures adopted pursuant to the regulations in this part.
(2) These documents must be posted in a conspicuous position on any premises within the United States where the activities subject to this part are conducted.
(b) If posting of the regulations in this part or the procedures adopted pursuant to the regulations in this part is not practicable, the licensee or firm subject to the regulations in this part may, in addition to posting section 206, post a notice which describes the regulations/procedures, including the name of the individual to whom reports may be made, and states where they may be examined.
(c) The effective date of this section has been deferred until January 6, 1978.
[42 FR 28893, June 6, 1977, as amended at 60 FR 48374, Sept. 19, 1995]
§ 21.7
Exemptions.
The Commission may, upon application of any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant such exemptions from the requirements of the regulations in this part as it determines are authorized by law and will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security and are otherwise in the public interest. Suppliers of commercial grade items are exempt from the provisions of this part to the extent that they supply commercial grade items.
[42 FR 28893, June 6, 1977, as amended at 43 FR 48622, Oct. 19, 1978]
§ 21.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0035.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 21.7, 21.21 and 21.51.
[62 FR 52185, Oct. 6, 1997]

# Notification
§ 21.21
Notification of failure to comply or existence of a defect and its evaluation.
(a) Each individual, corporation, partnership, dedicating entity, or other entity subject to the regulations in this part shall adopt appropriate procedures to—
(1) Evaluate deviations and failures to comply to identify defects and failures to comply associated with substantial safety hazards as soon as practicable, and, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, in all cases within 60 days of discovery, in order to identify a reportable defect or failure to comply that could create a substantial safety hazard, were it to remain uncorrected, and
(2) Ensure that if an evaluation of an identified deviation or failure to comply potentially associated with a substantial safety hazard cannot be completed within 60 days from discovery of the deviation or failure to comply, an interim report is prepared and submitted to the Commission through a director or responsible officer or designated person as discussed in § 21.21(d)(5). The interim report should describe the deviation or failure to comply that is being evaluated and should also state when the evaluation will be completed. This interim report must be submitted in writing within 60 days of discovery of the deviation or failure to comply.
(3) Ensure that a director or responsible officer subject to the regulations of this part is informed as soon as practicable, and, in all cases, within the 5 working days after completion of the evaluation described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section if the manufacture, construction, or operation of a facility or activity, a basic component supplied for such facility or activity, or the design certification or design approval under part 52 of this chapter—
(i) Fails to comply with the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, or any applicable rule, regulation, order, or license of the Commission or standard design approval under part 52 of this chapter, relating to a substantial safety hazard, or
(ii) Contains a defect.
(b) If the deviation or failure to comply is discovered by a supplier of basic components, or services associated with basic components, and the supplier determines that it does not have the capability to perform the evaluation to determine if a defect exists, then the supplier must inform the purchasers or affected licensees within five working days of this determination so that the purchasers or affected licensees may evaluate the deviation or failure to comply, pursuant to § 21.21(a).
(c) A dedicating entity is responsible for—
(1) Identifying and evaluating deviations and reporting defects and failures to comply associated with substantial safety hazards for dedicated items; and
(2) Maintaining auditable records for the dedication process.
(d)(1) A director or responsible officer subject to the regulations of this part or a person designated under § 21.21(d)(5) must notify the Commission when he or she obtains information reasonably indicating a failure to comply or a defect affecting—
(i) The manufacture, construction or operation of a facility or an activity within the United States that is subject to the licensing requirements under parts 30, 40, 50, 52, 60, 61, 63, 70, 71, or 72 of this chapter and that is within his or her organization's responsibility; or
(ii) A basic component that is within his or her organization's responsibility and is supplied for a facility or an activity within the United States that is subject to the licensing, design certification, or approval requirements under parts 30, 40, 50, 52, 60, 61, 63, 70, 71, or 72 of this chapter.
(2) The notification to NRC of a failure to comply or of a defect under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the evaluation of a failure to comply or a defect under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, are not required if the director or responsible officer has actual knowledge that the Commission has been notified in writing of the defect or the failure to comply.
(3) Notification required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be made as follows—
(i) Initial notification by facsimile, which is the preferred method of notification, to the NRC Operations Center at (301) 816-5151 or by telephone at (301) 816-5100 within two days following receipt of information by the director or responsible corporate officer under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, on the identification of a defect or a failure to comply. Verification that the facsimile has been received should be made by calling the NRC Operations Center. This paragraph does not apply to interim reports described in § 21.21(a)(2).
(ii) Written notification to the NRC at the address specified in § 21.5 within 30 days following receipt of information by the director or responsible corporate officer under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, on the identification of a defect or a failure to comply.
(4) The written report required by this paragraph shall include, but need not be limited to, the following information, to the extent known:
(i) Name and address of the individual or individuals informing the Commission.
(ii) Identification of the facility, the activity, or the basic component supplied for such facility or such activity within the United States which fails to comply or contains a defect.
(iii) Identification of the firm constructing the facility or supplying the basic component which fails to comply or contains a defect.
(iv) Nature of the defect or failure to comply and the safety hazard which is created or could be created by such defect or failure to comply.
(v) The date on which the information of such defect or failure to comply was obtained.
(vi) In the case of a basic component which contains a defect or fails to comply, the number and location of these components in use at, supplied for, being supplied for, or may be supplied for, manufactured, or being manufactured for one or more facilities or activities subject to the regulations in this part.
(vii) The corrective action which has been, is being, or will be taken; the name of the individual or organization responsible for the action; and the length of time that has been or will be taken to complete the action.
(viii) Any advice related to the defect or failure to comply about the facility, activity, or basic component that has been, is being, or will be given to purchasers or licensees.
(ix) In the case of an early site permit, the entities to whom an early site permit was transferred.
(5) The director or responsible officer may authorize an individual to provide the notification required by this paragraph, provided that, this shall not relieve the director or responsible officer of his or her responsibility under this paragraph.
(e) Individuals subject to this part may be required by the Commission to supply additional information related to a defect or failure to comply. Commission action to obtain additional information may be based on reports of defects from other reporting entities.
[42 FR 28893, June 6, 1977, as amended at 46 FR 58283, Dec. 1, 1981; 47 FR 57480, Dec. 27, 1982; 52 FR 31611, Aug. 21, 1987; 56 FR 36089, July 31, 1991; 59 FR 14086, Mar. 25, 1994; 60 FR 48374, Sept. 19, 1995; 66 FR 55790, Nov. 2, 2001; 67 FR 77652, Dec. 19, 2002; 72 FR 49487, Aug. 28, 2007]

# Procurement Documents
§ 21.31
Procurement documents.
Each individual, corporation, partnership, dedicating entity, or other entity subject to the regulations in this part shall ensure that each procurement document for a facility, or a basic component issued by him, her or it on or after January 6, 1978, specifies, when applicable, that the provisions of 10 CFR part 21 apply.
[60 FR 48374, Sept. 19, 1995]

# Inspections, Records
§ 21.41
Inspections.
Each individual, corporation, partnership, dedicating entity, or other entity subject to the regulations in this part shall permit the Commission to inspect records, premises, activities, and basic components as necessary to accomplish the purposes of this part.
[60 FR 48374, Sept. 19, 1995]
§ 21.51
Maintenance and inspection of records.
(a) Each individual, corporation, partnership, dedicating entity, or other entity subject to the regulations in this part shall prepare and maintain records necessary to accomplish the purposes of this part, specifically—
(1) Retain evaluations of all deviations and failures to comply for a minimum of five years after the date of the evaluation;
(2) Suppliers of basic components must retain any notifications sent to purchasers and affected licensees for a minimum of five years after the date of the notification.
(3) Suppliers of basic components must retain a record of the purchasers of basic components for 10 years after delivery of the basic component or service associated with a basic component.
(4) Applicants for standard design certification under subpart B of part 52 of this chapter and others providing a design which is the subject of a design certification, during and following Commission adoption of a final design certification rule for that design, shall retain any notifications sent to purchasers and affected licensees for a minimum of 5 years after the date of the notification, and retain a record of the purchasers for 15 years after delivery of design which is the subject of the design certification rule or service associated with the design.
(5) Applicants for or holders of a standard design approval under subpart E of part 52 of this chapter and others providing a design which is the subject of a design approval shall retain any notifications sent to purchasers and affected licensees for a minimum of 5 years after the date of the notification, and retain a record of the purchasers for 15 years after delivery of the design which is the subject of the design approval or service associated with the design.
(b) Each individual, corporation, partnership, dedicating entity, or other entity subject to the regulations in this part shall permit the Commission the opportunity to inspect records pertaining to basic components that relate to the identification and evaluation of deviations, and the reporting of defects and failures to comply, including (but not limited to) any advice given to purchasers or licensees on the placement, erection, installation, operation, maintenance, modification, or inspection of a basic component.
[56 FR 36090, July 31, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 48374, Sept. 19, 1995; 72 FR 49488, Aug. 28, 2007]

# Enforcement
§ 21.61
Failure to notify.
(a) Any director or responsible officer of an entity (including dedicating entity) that is not otherwise subject to the deliberate misconduct provisions of
this chapter but is subject to the regulations in this part who knowingly and consciously fails to provide the notice required as by § 21.21 shall be subject to a civil penalty equal to the amount provided by section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(b) Any NRC licensee or applicant for a license (including an applicant for, or holder of, a permit), applicant for a design certification under part 52 of this chapter during the pendency of its application, applicant for a design certification after Commission adoption of a final design certification rule for that design, or applicant for or holder of a standard design approval under part 52 of this chapter subject to the regulations in this part who fails to provide the notice required by § 21.21, or otherwise fails to comply with the applicable requirements of this part shall be subject to a civil penalty as provided by Section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(c) The dedicating entity, pursuant to § 21.21(c) of this part, is responsible for identifying and evaluating deviations, reporting defects and failures to comply for the dedicated item, and maintaining auditable records of the dedication process. NRC enforcement action can be taken for failure to identify and evaluate deviations, failure to report defects and failures to comply, or failure to maintain auditable records.
[60 FR 48374, Sept. 19, 1995, as amended at 72 FR 49488, Aug. 28, 2007]
§ 21.62
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 21 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 21 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 21.1, 21.2, 21.3, 21.4 21.5, 21.7, 21.8, 21.61, and 21.62.
[57 FR 55071, Nov. 24, 1992]
Pt. 25

# PART 25—ACCESS AUTHORIZATION

# General Provisions
Sec.
25.1
Purpose.
25.3
Scope.
25.5
Definitions.
25.7
Interpretations.
25.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
25.9
Communications.
25.11
Specific exemptions.
25.13
Maintenance of records.

# Access Authorizations
25.15
Access permitted under “Q” or “L” access authorization.
25.17
Approval for processing applicants for access authorization.
25.19
Processing applications.
25.21
Determination of initial and continued eligibility for access authorization.
25.23
Notification of grant of access authorization.
25.25
Cancellation of requests for access authorization.
25.27
Reopening of cases in which requests for access authorizations are canceled.
25.29
Reinstatement of access authorization.
25.31
Extensions and transfers of access authorizations.
25.33
Termination of access authorizations.

# Classified Visits
25.35
Classified visits.

# Violations
25.37
Violations.
25.39
Criminal penalties.
Appendix A to Part 25—Fees for NRC Access Authorization

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 145, 161, 223, 234 (42 U.S.C. 2165, 2201, 2273, 2282); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, sec. 201 (42 U.S.C. 5841); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note; E.O. 10865, 25 FR 1583, as amended, 3 CFR, 1959-1963 Comp., p. 398; E.O. 12829, 58 FR 3479, 3 CFR, 1993 Comp., p. 570; E.O. 13526, 75 FR 707, 3 CFR, 2009 Comp., p. 298; E.O. 12968, 60 FR 40245, 3 CFR, 1995 Comp., p. 391.
Section 25.17(f) and Appendix A also issued under 31 U.S.C. 9701; 42 U.S.C. 2214.

# Source:
45 FR 14481, Mar. 5, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 25.1
Purpose.
The regulations in this part establish procedures for granting, reinstating,
extending, transferring, and terminating access authorizations of licensee personnel, licensee contractors or agents, and other persons (e.g., individuals involved in adjudicatory procedures as set forth in 10 CFR part 2, subpart I) who may require access to classified information.
[62 FR 17687, Apr. 11, 1997]
§ 25.3
Scope.
The regulations in this part apply to licensees, certificate holders, and others who may require access to classified information related to a license, certificate, an application for a license or certificate, or other activities as the Commission may determine.
[70 FR 32227, June 2, 2005]
§ 25.5
Definitions.
Access authorization
means an administrative determination that an individual (including a consultant) who is employed by or an applicant for employment with the NRC, NRC contractors, agents, licensees and certificate holders, or other person designated by the Executive Director for Operations, is eligible for a security clearance for access to classified information.
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 919), as amended.
Certificate holder
means a facility operating under the provisions of parts 71 or 76 of this chapter.
Classified information
means either classified National Security Information, Restricted Data, or Formerly Restricted Data or any one of them. It is the generic term for information requiring protection in the interest of National Security whether classified under an Executive Order or the Atomic Energy Act.
Classified National Security Information
means information that has been determined under E.O. 13526, as amended, or any predecessor or successor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated.
Cognizant Security Agency (CSA)
means agencies of the Executive Branch that have been authorized by E.O. 12829 to establish an industrial security program for the purpose of safeguarding classified information under the jurisdiction of those agencies when disclosed or released to U.S. industry. These agencies are the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. A facility has a single CSA which exercises primary authority for the protection of classified information at the facility. The CSA for the facility provides security representation for other government agencies with security interests at the facility. The Secretary of Defense has been designated as Executive Agent for the National Industrial Security Program.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its duly authorized representatives.
“L” access authorization
means an access authorization granted by the Commission that is normally based on a Tier 3 (T3) investigation conducted by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA).
License
means a license issued pursuant to 10 CFR parts 50, 52, 60, 63, 70, or 72.
Matter
means documents or material.
National Security Information
means information that has been determined pursuant to Executive Order 12958, as amended, or any predecessor order to require protection against unauthorized disclosure and that is so designated.
Need-to-know
means a determination made by an authorized holder of classified information that a prospective recipient requires access to a specific classified information to perform or assist in a lawful and authorized governmental function under the cognizance of the Commission.
Person
means (1) any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, government agency other than the Commission or the Department of Energy (DOE), except that the DOE shall be considered a person to the extent that its facilities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and sections 104, 105 and 202 of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, any State or any political subdivision
of, or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and (2) any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing.
“Q” access authorization
means an access authorization granted by the Commission normally based on a Tier 5 (T5) investigation conducted by the Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or other U.S. Government agency that conducts personnel security investigations.
Restricted Data
means all data concerning design, manufacture or utilization of atomic weapons, the production of special nuclear material, or the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy, but shall not include data declassified or removed from the Restricted Data category pursuant to section 142 of the Act.
Visit authorization letters (VAL)
means a letter, generated by a licensee, certificate holder or other organization under the requirements of 10 CFR parts 25 and/or 95, verifying the need-to-know and access authorization of an individual from that organization who needs to visit another authorized facility for the purpose of exchanging or acquiring classified information related to the license.
[45 FR 14481, Mar. 5, 1980, as amended at 46 FR 58283, Dec. 1, 1981; 47 FR 38683, Sept. 2, 1982; 48 FR 24320, June 1, 1983; 50 FR 36984, Sept. 11, 1985; 55 FR 11574, Mar. 29, 1990; 62 FR 17687, Apr. 11, 1997; 64 FR 15647, Apr. 1, 1999; 70 FR 32227, June 2, 2005; 75 FR 73941, Nov. 30, 2010; 86 FR 43401, Aug. 9, 2021; 87 FR 45241, July 28, 2022]
§ 25.7
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
§ 25.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0046.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 25.11, 25.17, 25.21, 25.23, 25.25, 25.27, 25.29, 25.31, 25.33, and 25.35.
(c) This part contains information collection requirements in addition to those approved under the control number specified in paragraph (a) of this section. These information collection requirements and the control numbers under which they are approved are as follows:
(1) In §§ 25.17(b), 25.21(c), 25.27(a), 25.29, and 25.31, NRC Form 237 is approved under control number 3150-0050.
(2) In §§ 25.17(c), 25.21(c), 25.27(b), 25.29, and 25.31, the “Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP), SF-86—Questionnaire for National Security Positions” is approved under control number 3206-0005.
(3) In § 25.21(b), NRC Form 354 is approved under control number 3150-0026.
(4) In § 25.33, NRC Form 136 is approved under control number 3150-0049.
(5) In § 25.35, NRC Form 277 is approved under control number 3150-0051.
[49 FR 19624, May 9, 1984, as amended at 57 FR 3720, Jan. 31, 1992; 62 FR 17687, Apr. 11, 1997; 62 FR 52185, Oct. 6, 1997; 87 FR 45241, July 28, 2022]
§ 25.9
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified, communications and reports concerning the regulations in this part should be addressed to the Director, Division of Facilities and Security, Mail Stop T7-D57, and sent either by mail to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-
ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
[68 FR 58803, Oct. 10, 2003, as amended at 74 FR 62681, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74979, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 25.11
Specific exemptions.
The NRC may, upon application by any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant exemptions from the requirements of the regulations of this part, that are—
(a) Authorized by law, will not present an undue risk to the public health and safety, and are consistent with the common defense and security; or
(b) Coincidental with one or more of the following:
(1) An application of the regulation in the particular circumstances conflicts with other NRC rules or requirements;
(2) An application of the regulation in the particular circumstances would not serve the underlying purpose of the rule or is not necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of the rule;
(3) When compliance would result in undue hardship or other costs that significantly exceed those contemplated when the regulation was adopted, or that significantly exceed those incurred by others similarly situated;
(4) When the exemption would result in benefit to the common defense and security that compensates for any decrease in the security that may result from the grant of the exemption;
(5) When the exemption would provide only temporary relief from the applicable regulation and the licensee or applicant has made good faith efforts to comply with the regulation;
(6) When there is any other material circumstance present that was not considered when the regulation was adopted that would be in the public interest to grant an exemption. If this condition is relied on exclusively for satisfying paragraph (b) of this section, the exemption may not be granted until the Executive Director for Operations has consulted with the Commission.
[64 FR 15647, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 25.13
Maintenance of records.
(a) Each licensee or organization employing individuals approved for personnel security access authorization under this part, shall maintain records as prescribed within the part. These records are subject to review and inspection by CSA representatives during security reviews.
(b) Each record required by this part must be legible throughout the retention period specified by each Commission regulation. The record may be the original or a reproduced copy or a microform provided that the copy or microform is authenticated by authorized personnel and that the microform is capable of producing a clear copy throughout the required retention period. The record may also be stored in electronic media with the capability for producing legible, accurate, and complete records during the required retention period. Records such as letters, drawings, specifications, must include all pertinent information such as stamps, initials, and signatures. The licensee shall maintain adequate safeguards against tampering with and loss of records.
[45 FR 14481, Mar. 5, 1980, as amended at 53 FR 19245, May 27, 1988; 62 FR 17687, Apr. 11, 1997]

# Access Authorizations
§ 25.15
Access permitted under “Q” or “L” access authorization.
(a) A “Q” access authorization permits an individual access on a need-to-know basis to (1) Secret and Confidential Restricted Data and (2) Secret and
Confidential National Security Information including intelligence information, CRYPTO (
i.e.
, cryptographic information) or other classified communications security (COMSEC) information.
(b) An “L” access authorization permits an individual access on a need-to-know basis to Confidential Restricted Data and Secret and Confidential National Security Information other than the categories specifically included in paragraph (a) of this section. In addition, access to certain Confidential COMSEC information is permitted as authorized by a National Communications Security Committee waiver dated February 14, 1985.
(c) Each employee of the Commission is processed for one of the two levels of access authorization. Licensees and other persons will furnish National Security Information and/or Restricted Data to a Commission employee on official business when the employee has the appropriate level of NRC access authorization and need-to-know. Some individuals are permitted to begin NRC employment without an access authorization. However, no NRC employee shall be permitted access to any classified information until the appropriate level of access authorization has been granted to that employee by NRC.
[45 FR 14481, Mar. 5, 1980, as amended at 47 FR 9195, Mar. 4, 1982; 50 FR 36984, Sept. 11, 1985]
§ 25.17
Approval for processing applicants for access authorization.
(a) Access authorizations must be requested for licensee employees or other persons (e.g., 10 CFR part 2, subpart I) who need access to classified information in connection with activities under 10 CFR parts 50, 52, 54, 60, 63, 70, 72, or 76.
(b) The request must be submitted to the facility CSA. If the NRC is the CSA, the procedures in § 25.17 (c) and (d) will be followed. If the NRC is not the CSA, the request will be submitted to the CSA in accordance with procedures established by the CSA. The NRC will be notified of the request by a letter that includes the name, Social Security number and level of access authorization.
(c) The request must include a completed personnel security packet (see § 25.17(d)) and request form (NRC Form 237) signed by a licensee, licensee contractor official, or other authorized person.
(d)(1) Each personnel security packet submitted must include the following completed forms:
(i) Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP), SF-86 Questionnaire for National Security Positions;
(ii) Two standard fingerprint cards (FD-258);
(iii) Security Acknowledgment (NRC Form 176); and
(iv) Other related forms where specified in accompanying instructions (NRC Form 254).
(2) Only a Security Acknowledgment (NRC Form 176) need be completed by any person possessing an active access authorization, or who is being processed for an access authorization, by another Federal agency. The active or pending access authorization must be at an equivalent level to that required by the NRC and be based on an adequate investigation of not more than five years old.
(e) To avoid delays in processing requests for access authorizations, each security packet should be reviewed for completeness and correctness (including legibility of response on the forms) before submittal.
(f) The Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) bills the NRC for the cost of each background investigation conducted in support of an application for access authorization (application). The combined cost of the DCSA investigation and the NRC's application processing overhead (NRC processing fee) are recovered through an access authorization fee imposed on applicants for access authorization.
(1) Each application for access authorization, renewal, or change in level must be accompanied by a remittance, payable to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which is equal to the NRC access authorization fee. This fee must be determined using the following formula: the DCSA investigation billing rates on the day the NRC receives the application + the NRC processing fee = the NRC access authorization fee. The
NRC processing fee is determined by multiplying the DCSA investigation billing rate on the day the NRC receives the application by 90.2 percent (
i.e.,
DCSA rate × 90.2 percent).
(2) Updated DCSA investigation billing rates are published periodically in a Federal Investigations Notice (FIN) issued by the DCSA's Federal Investigative Services. Copies of the current DCSA investigation billing rates schedule can be obtained by contacting the NRC's Personnel Security Branch, Division of Facilities Security, Office of Administration by email to
Licensee_ Access_ Authorization_ Fee.Resource@nrc.gov
(3) The NRC's Information Access Authority Program (IAAP) is considered reimbursable work representing services provided to an organization for which the NRC is entitled payment. The NRC is authorized to receive and retain fees from licensees for services performed. The NRC's Office of the Chief Financial Officer periodically reviews the fees charged for IAAP and makes recommendations on revising those charges to reflect costs incurred by the NRC in providing those services. The reviews are performed using cost analysis techniques to determine the direct and indirect costs. Based on this review, the IAAP fees are adjusted to reflect the current cost for the program. IAAP requests for reciprocity will be charged a flat fee rate of $95.00 as referenced in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. This flat fee is aligned with the level of effort that has been expended by DCSA to process reciprocity requests, and accounts for inflation as well as recovery of the appropriate cost for conducting the investigations. Copies of the current NRC access authorization fee may be obtained by contacting the NRC's Personnel Security Branch, Division of Facilities and Security, Office of Administration by email at: Licensee_Access_ Authorization_
Fee.Resource@nrc.gov
. Any change in the NRC's access authorization fee will be applicable to each access authorization request received on or after the effective date of the DCSA's most recently published investigation billing rates schedule.
(4) Certain applications from individuals having current Federal access authorizations may be processed more expeditiously and at less cost because the Commission, at its discretion, may decide to accept the certification of access authorization and investigative data from other Federal Government agencies that grant personnel access authorizations.
(i) Applications for reciprocity will be processed at the NRC flat fee rate of $95 per request, as referenced in the following table:
The NRC application fee for an access authorization of type . . .
NRC fee rate
(A) NRC-L based on certification of comparable investigation
1
$95
(B) NRC-Q based on certification of comparable investigation
2
95
1
If the NRC determines, based on its review of available data, that a Tier 3 investigation is necessary, the appropriate NRC-L fee will be assessed as shown in appendix A to this part before the conduct of the investigation.
2
If the NRC determines, based on its review of available data, that a Tier 5 investigation is necessary, the appropriate NRC-Q fee will be assessed as shown in appendix A to this part before the conduct of the investigation.
(ii) Applicants shall, in cases where reciprocity is not acceptable and it is necessary to perform a background investigation, be charged the appropriate fee referenced in appendix A to this part. Applicants shall calculate the access authorization fee according to the stated formula (
i.e.,
DCSA rate × 90.2 percent).
[62 FR 17687, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 68 FR 62512, Nov. 5, 2003; 70 FR 32227, June 2, 2005; 72 FR 27411, May 16, 2007; 77 FR 26153, May 3, 2012; 77 FR 46258, Aug. 3, 2012; 86 FR 43401, Aug. 9, 2021; 86 FR 47209, Aug. 24, 2021; 87 FR 45241, July 28, 2022]
§ 25.19
Processing applications.
Each application for an access authorization or access authorization renewal must be submitted to the CSA. If the NRC is the CSA, the application
and its accompanying fee must be submitted to the NRC Division of Facilities and Security. If necessary, the NRC Division of Facilities and Security may obtain approval from the appropriate Commission office exercising licensing or regulatory authority before processing the access authorization or access authorization renewal request. If the applicant is disapproved for processing, the NRC Division of Facilities and Security shall notify the submitter in writing and return the original application (security packet) and its accompanying fee.
[64 FR 15648, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 25.21
Determination of initial and continued eligibility for access authorization.
(a) Following receipt by the CSA of the reports of the personnel security investigations, the record will be reviewed to determine that granting an access authorization or renewal of access authorization will not endanger the common defense and security and is clearly consistent with the national interest. If this determination is made, access authorization will be granted or renewed. If the NRC is the CSA, questions as to initial or continued eligibility will be determined in accordance with part 10 of chapter I. If another agency is the CSA, that agency will, under the requirements of the NISPOM, have established procedures at the facility to resolve questions as to initial or continued eligibility for access authorization. These questions will be determined in accordance with established CSA procedures already in effect for the facility.
(b) The CSA must be promptly notified of developments that bear on continued eligibility for access authorization throughout the period for which the authorization is active (e.g., persons who marry subsequent to the completion of a personnel security packet must report this change by submitting a completed NRC Form 354, “Data Report on Spouse” or equivalent CSA form).
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an NRC “Q” access authorization must be renewed every five years from the date of issuance. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, an NRC “L” access authorization must be renewed every ten years from the date of issuance. An application for renewal must be submitted at least 120 days before the expiration of the five-year period for a “Q” access authorization and the ten-year period for an “L” access authorization, and must include:
(i) A statement by the licensee or other person that the individual continues to require access to classified National Security Information or Restricted Data; and
(ii) A personnel security packet as described in § 25.17(d).
(2) Renewal applications and the required paperwork are not required for individuals who have a current and active access authorization from another Federal agency and who are subject to a reinvestigation program by that agency that is determined by the NRC to meet the NRC's requirements. (The DOE Reinvestigation Program has been determined to meet the NRC's requirements.) For these individuals, the submission of the SF-86 by the licensee or other person to the other Government agency pursuant to their reinvestigation requirements will satisfy the NRC's renewal submission and paperwork requirements, even if less than five years have passed since the date of issuance or renewal of the NRC “Q” access authorization, or if less than 10 years have passed since the date of issuance or renewal of the NRC “L” access authorization. Any NRC access authorization continued in response to the provisions of this paragraph will, thereafter, not be due for renewal until the date set by the other Government agency for the next reinvestigation of the individual pursuant to the other agency's reinvestigation program. However, the period of time for the initial and each subsequent NRC “Q” renewal application to the NRC may not exceed seven years or, in the case of an NRC “L” renewal application, twelve years. Any individual who is subject to the reinvestigation program requirements of another Federal agency but, for administrative or other reasons, does not submit reinvestigation forms to that agency within seven years for a “Q” renewal or twelve years for an “L” renewal of the previous submission,
shall submit a renewal application to the NRC using the forms prescribed in § 25.17(d) before the expiration of the seven-year period for a “Q” renewal or twelve-year period for an “L” renewal.
(3) If the NRC is not the CSA, reinvestigation program procedures and requirements will be set by the CSA.
[62 FR 17688, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15648, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 25.23
Notification of grant of access authorization.
The determination to grant or renew access authorization will be furnished in writing to the licensee or organization that initiated the request. Upon receipt of the notification of original grant of access authorization, the licensee or organization shall obtain, as a condition for grant of access authorization and access to classified information, an executed “Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement” (SF-312) from the affected individual. The SF-312 is an agreement between the United States and an individual who is cleared for access to classified information. An employee issued an initial access authorization shall execute a SF-312 before being granted access to classified information. The licensee or other organization shall forward the executed SF-312 to the CSA for retention. If the employee refuses to execute the SF-312, the licensee or other organization shall deny the employee access to classified information and submit a report to the CSA. The SF-312 must be signed and dated by the employee and witnessed. The employee's and witness' signatures must bear the same date. The individual shall also be given a security orientation briefing in accordance with § 95.33 of this chapter. Records of access authorization grant and renewal notification must be maintained by the licensee or other organization for three years after the access authorization has been terminated by the CSA. This information may also be furnished to other representatives of the Commission, to licensees, contractors, or other Federal agencies. Notifications of access authorization will not be given in writing to the affected individual except:
(a) In those cases when the determination was made as a result of a Personnel Security Hearing or by a Personnel Security Review Panel ; or
(b) When the individual also is the official designated by the licensee or other organization to whom written NRC notifications are forwarded.
[62 FR 17688, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15648, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 25.25
Cancellation of requests for access authorization.
When a request for an individual's access authorization or renewal of an access authorization is withdrawn or canceled, the requestor shall notify the CSA immediately by telephone so that the single scope background investigation, national agency check with law and credit investigation, or other personnel security action may be discontinued. The requestor shall identify the full name and date of birth of the individual, the date of request, and the type of access authorization or access authorization renewal requested. The requestor shall confirm each telephone notification promptly in writing.
[64 FR 15648, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 25.27
Reopening of cases in which requests for access authorizations are canceled.
(a) In conjunction with a new request for access authorization (NRC Form 237 or CSA equivalent) for individuals whose cases were previously canceled, new fingerprint cards (FD-257) in duplicate and a new Security Acknowledgment (NRC Form 176), or CSA equivalent, must be furnished to the CSA along with the request.
(b) Additionally, if 90 days or more have elapsed since the date of the last Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF-86), or CSA equivalent, the individual must complete a personnel security packet (see § 25.17(d)). The CSA, based on investigative or other needs, may require a complete personnel security packet in other cases as well. A fee, equal to the amount paid for an initial request, will be charged only if a new or updating investigation by the NRC is required.
[62 FR 17689, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15648, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 25.29
Reinstatement of access authorization.
(a) An access authorization can be reinstated provided that:
(1) No more than 24 months has lapsed since the date of termination of the clearance;
(2) There has been no break in employment with the employer since the date of termination of the clearance;
(3) There is no known adverse information;
(4) The most recent investigation must not exceed 5 years (Top Secret, Q) or 10 years (Secret, L); and
(5) The most recent investigation must meet or exceed the scope of the investigation required for the level of access authorization that is to be reinstated or granted.
(b) An access authorization can be reinstated at the same, or lower, level by submission of a CSA-designated form to the CSA. The employee may not have access to classified information until receipt of written confirmation of reinstatement and an up-to-date personnel security packet will be furnished with the request for reinstatement of an access authorization. A new Security Acknowledgement will be obtained in all cases. Where personnel security packets are not required, a request for reinstatement must state the level of access authorization to be reinstated and the full name and date of birth of the individual to establish positive identification. A fee, equal to the amount paid for an initial request, will be charged only if a new or updating investigation by the NRC is required.
[62 FR 17689, Apr. 11, 1997]
§ 25.31
Extensions and transfers of access authorizations.
(a) The NRC Division of Facilities and Security may, on request, extend the authorization of an individual who possesses an access authorization in connection with a particular employer or activity to permit access to classified information in connection with an assignment with another employer or activity.
(b) The NRC Division of Facilities and Security may, on request, transfer an access authorization when an individual's access authorization under one employer or activity is terminated, simultaneously with the individual being granted an access authorization for another employer or activity.
(c) Requests for an extension or transfer of an access authorization must state the full name of the person, date of birth, and level of access authorization. The Director, Division of Facilities and Security, may require a new personnel security packet (see § 25.17(c)) to be completed by the applicant. A fee, equal to the amount paid for an initial request, will be charged only if a new or updating investigation by the NRC is required.
(d) The date of an extension or transfer of access authorization may not be used to determine when a request for renewal of access authorization is required. Access authorization renewal requests must be timely submitted, in accordance with § 25.21(c).
[45 FR 14481, Mar. 5, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 24320, June 1, 1983; 57 FR 3721, Jan. 31, 1992; 62 FR 17689, Apr. 11, 1997; 64 FR 15648, Apr. 1, 1999]
§ 25.33
Termination of access authorizations.
(a) Access authorizations will be terminated when:
(1) An access authorization is no longer required;
(2) An individual is separated from the employment or the activity for which he or she obtained an access authorization for a period of 90 days or more; or
(3) An individual, pursuant to 10 CFR part 10 or other CSA-approved adjudicatory standards, is no longer eligible for an access authorization.
(b) A representative of the licensee or other organization that employs the individual whose access authorization will be terminated shall immediately notify the CSA when the circumstances noted in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section exist; inform the individual that his or her access authorization is being terminated, and the reason; and that he or she will be considered for reinstatement of an access authorization if he or she resumes work requiring the authorization.
(c) When an access authorization is to be terminated, a representative of
the licensee or other organization shall conduct a security termination briefing of the individual involved, explain the Security Termination Statement (NRC Form 136 or CSA approved form) and have the individual complete the form. The representative shall promptly forward the original copy of the completed Security Termination Statement to CSA.
[62 FR 17689, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15649, Apr. 1, 1999]

# Classified Visits
§ 25.35
Classified visits.
(a) The number of classified visits must be held to a minimum. The licensee, certificate holder, applicant for a standard design certification under part 52 of this chapter (including an applicant after the Commission has adopted a final standard design certification rule under part 52 of this chapter), or other facility, or an applicant for or holder of a standard design approval under part 52 of this chapter shall determine that the visit is necessary and that the purpose of the visit cannot be achieved without access to, or disclosure of, classified information. All classified visits require advance notification to, and approval of, the organization to be visited. In urgent cases, visit information may be furnished by telephone and confirmed in writing.
(b) Representatives of the Federal Government, when acting in their official capacities as inspectors, investigators, or auditors, may visit a licensee, certificate holder, or other facility without furnishing advanced notification, provided these representatives present appropriate Government credentials upon arrival. Normally, however, Federal representatives will provide advance notification in the form of an NRC Form 277, “Request for Visit or Access Approval,” with the “need-to-know” certified by the appropriate NRC office exercising licensing or regulatory authority and verification of an NRC access authorization by the Division of Facilities and Security.
(c) The licensee, certificate holder, or others shall include the following information on all Visit Authorization Letters (VAL) which they prepare.
(1) Visitor's name, address, and telephone number and certification of the level of the facility security clearance;
(2) Name, date and place of birth, and citizenship of the individual intending to visit;
(3) Certification of the proposed visitor's personnel clearance and any special access authorizations required for the visit;
(4) Name of person(s) to be visited;
(5) Purpose and sufficient justification for the visit to allow for a determination of the necessity of the visit; and
(6) Date or period during which the VAL is to be valid.
(d) Classified visits may be arranged for a 12 month period. The requesting facility shall notify all places honoring these visit arrangements of any change in the individual's status that will cause the visit request to be canceled before its normal termination date.
(e) The responsibility for determining need-to-know in connection with a classified visit rests with the individual who will disclose classified information during the visit. The licensee, certificate holder or other facility shall establish procedures to ensure positive identification of visitors before the disclosure of any classified information.
[62 FR 17689, Apr. 11, 1997, as amended at 64 FR 15649, Apr. 1, 1999; 72 FR 49488, Aug. 28, 2007]

# Violations
§ 25.37
Violations.
(a) An injunction or other court order may be obtained to prohibit a violation of any provision of:
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended; or
(3) Any regulation or order issued under these Acts.
(b) National Security Information is protected under the requirements and sanctions of Executive Order 13526, as amended, or any predecessor or successor orders.
[48 FR 24320, June 1, 1983, as amended at 57 FR 55072, Nov. 24, 1992; 64 FR 15649, Apr. 1, 1999; 70 FR 32227, June 2, 2005; 75 FR 73941, Nov. 30, 2010]
§ 25.39
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For purposes of section 223, all the regulations in part 25 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in part 25 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 25.1, 25.3, 25.5, 25.7, 25.8, 25.9, 25.11, 25.19, 25.25, 25.27, 25.29, 25.31, 25.37, and 25.39.
[57 FR 55072, Nov. 24, 1992]
Pt. 25, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 25—Fees for NRC Access Authorization
The NRC application fee for an access authorization of type . . .
Is the sum of the current DCSA investigation billing rate charged for an investigation of type . . .
Plus the NRC's processing
fee (rounded to the nearest
dollar), which is equal to
the investigation billing
rate for the type of
investigation referenced
multiplied by . . .
(%)
Initial “L” access authorization
1
Tier 3 (T3) (Standard Service)
90.2
Reinstatement of “L” access authorization
2
No fee assessed for most applications
Renewal of “L” access authorization
1
Tier 3 Reinvestigation (T3R) (Standard Service)
90.2
Initial “Q” access authorization
Tier 5 (T5) (Standard Service)
90.2
Initial “Q” access authorization
T5 (Priority Handling)
90.2
Reinstatement of “Q” access authorization
2
No fee assessed for most applications
Renewal of “Q” access authorization
1
Tier 5 Reinvestigation (T5R) (Standard Service)
90.2
Renewal of “Q” access authorization
1
Tier 5 Reinvestigation (T5R) (Priority Handling)
90.2
1
If the NRC determines, based on its review of available data, that a Tier 5 investigation is necessary, the appropriate fee for an Initial “Q” access authorization will be assessed before the conduct of investigation.
2
Full fee will only be charged if an investigation is required.
[87 FR 45242, July 28, 2022]
Pt. 26

# PART 26—FITNESS FOR DUTY PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—Administrative Provisions
Sec.
26.1
Purpose.
26.3
Scope.
26.4
FFD program applicability to categories of individuals.
26.5
Definitions.
26.7
Interpretations.
26.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
26.9
Specific exemptions.
26.11
Communications.

# Subpart B—Program Elements
26.21
Fitness-for-duty program.
26.23
Performance objectives.
26.25
[Reserved]
26.27
Written policy and procedures.
26.29
Training.
26.31
Drug and alcohol testing.
26.33
Behavioral observation.
26.35
Employee assistance programs.
26.37
Protection of information.
26.39
Review process for fitness-for-duty policy violations.
26.41
Audits and corrective action.

# Subpart C—Granting and Maintaining Authorization
26.51
Applicability.
26.53
General provisions.
26.55
Initial authorization.
26.57
Authorization update.
26.59
Authorization reinstatement.
26.61
Self-disclosure and employment history.
26.63
Suitable inquiry.
26.65
Pre-access drug and alcohol testing.
26.67
Random drug and alcohol testing of individuals who have applied for authorization.
26.69
Authorization with potentially disqualifying fitness-for-duty information.
26.71
Maintaining authorization.

# Subpart D—Management Actions and Sanctions To Be Imposed
26.73
Applicability.
26.75
Sanctions.
26.77
Management actions regarding possible impairment.

# Subpart E—Collecting Specimens for Testing
26.81
Purpose and applicability.
26.83
Specimens to be collected.
26.85
Collector qualifications and responsibilities.
26.87
Collection sites.
26.89
Preparing to collect specimens for testing.
26.91
Acceptable devices for conducting initial and confirmatory tests for alcohol and methods of use.
26.93
Preparing for alcohol testing.
26.95
Conducting an initial test for alcohol using a breath specimen.
26.97
Collecting oral fluid specimens for alcohol and drug testing.
26.99
Determining the need for a confirmatory test for alcohol.
26.101
Conducting a confirmatory test for alcohol.
26.103
Determining a confirmed positive test result for alcohol.
26.105
Preparing for the collection of a specimen for drug testing.
26.107
Collecting a urine specimen.
26.109
Urine specimen quantity.
26.111
Checking the acceptability of the urine specimen.
26.113
Splitting the urine specimen.
26.115
Collecting a urine specimen under direct observation.
26.117
Preparing drug testing specimens for storage and shipping.
26.119
Determining “shy” bladder.

# Subpart F—Licensee Testing Facilities
26.121
Purpose.
26.123
Testing facility capabilities.
26.125
Licensee testing facility personnel.
26.127
Procedures.
26.129
Assuring specimen security, chain of custody, and preservation.
26.131
Cutoff levels for validity screening and initial validity tests.
26.133
Cutoff levels for drugs and drug metabolites.
26.135
Split specimens.
26.137
Quality assurance and quality control.
26.139
Reporting initial validity and drug test results.

# Subpart G—Laboratories Certified by the Department of Health and Human Services
26.151
Purpose.
26.153
Using certified laboratories for testing specimens.
26.155
[Reserved]
26.157
Procedures.
26.159
Assuring specimen security, chain of custody, and preservation.
26.161
Cutoff levels for validity testing.
26.163
Cutoff levels for drugs and drug metabolites.
26.165
Testing split specimens and retesting single specimens.
26.167
Quality assurance and quality control.
26.168
Blind performance testing.
26.169
Reporting results.

# Subpart H—Determining Fitness-for-Duty Policy Violations and Determining Fitness
26.181
Purpose.
26.183
Medical review officer.
26.185
Determining a fitness-for-duty policy violation.
26.187
Substance abuse expert.
26.189
Determination of fitness.

# Subpart I—Managing Fatigue.
26.201
Applicability.
26.203
General provisions.
26.205
Work hours.
26.207
Waivers and exceptions.
26.209
Self-declarations.
26.211
Fatigue assessments.
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—FFD Programs for Construction
26.401
General.
26.403
Written policy and procedures.
26.405
Drug and alcohol testing.
26.406
Fitness monitoring.
26.407
Behavioral observation.
26.409
Sanctions.
26.411
Protection of information.
26.413
Review process.
26.415
Audits.
26.417
Recordkeeping and reporting.
26.419
Suitability and fitness evaluations.
Subparts L-M [Reserved]

# Subpart N—Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
26.709
Applicability.
26.711
General provisions.
26.713
Recordkeeping requirements for licensees and other entities.
26.715
Recordkeeping requirements for collection sites, licensee testing facilities, and laboratories certified by the Department of Health and Human Services.
26.717
Fitness-for-duty program performance data.
26.719
Reporting requirements.

# Subpart O—Inspections, Violations, and Penalties
26.821
Inspections.
26.823
Violations.
26.825
Criminal penalties.

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 53, 103, 104, 107, 161, 223, 234, 1701 (42 U.S.C. 2073, 2133, 2134, 2137, 2201, 2273, 2282, 2297f); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Source:
73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 26 appear at 87 FR 71455, Nov. 22, 2022.

# Subpart A—Administrative Provisions
§ 26.1
Purpose.
This part prescribes requirements and standards for the establishment, implementation, and maintenance of fitness-for-duty (FFD) programs.
§ 26.3
Scope.
(a) Licensees who are authorized to operate a nuclear power reactor under 10 CFR 50.57, and holders of a combined license under 10 CFR Part 52 after the Commission has made the finding under 10 CFR 52.103(g) shall comply with the requirements of this part, except for subpart K of this part. Licensees who receive their authorization to operate a nuclear power reactor under 10 CFR 50.57 after the date of publication of this final rule in the
Federal Register
and holders of a combined license under 10 CFR Part 52 after the Commission has made the finding under 10 CFR 52.103(g) shall implement the FFD program before the receipt of special nuclear material in the form of fuel assemblies.
(b) Licensees who are authorized to possess, use, or transport formula quantities of strategic special nuclear material (SSNM) under Part 70 of this chapter, and any corporation, firm, partnership, limited liability company, association, or other organization who obtains a certificate of compliance or an approved compliance plan under Part 76 of this chapter, only if the entity elects to engage in activities involving formula quantities of SSNM shall comply with the requirements of this part, except for subparts I and K of this part.
(c) Before the receipt of special nuclear material in the form of fuel assemblies, the following licensees and other entities shall comply with the requirements of this part, except for subpart I of this part; and, no later than the receipt of special nuclear material in the form of fuel assemblies, the following licensees and other entities shall comply with the requirements of this part:
(1) Combined license applicants (under Part 52 of this chapter) who have been issued a limited work authorization under § 50.10(e), if the limited work authorization authorizes the applicant to install the foundations, including the placement of concrete, for safety- and security-related structures, systems, and components (SSCs) under the limited work authorization;
(2) Combined license holders (under Part 52 of this chapter) before the Commission has made the finding under § 52.103(g);
(3) Construction permit applicants (under Part 50 of this chapter) who have been issued a limited work authorization under § 50.10(e), if the limited work authorization authorizes the applicant to install the foundations, including the placement of concrete, for safety- and security-related SSCs under the limited work authorization;
(4) Construction permit holders (under Part 50 of this chapter); and
(5) Early site permit holders who have been issued a limited work authorization under § 50.10(e), if the limited work authorization authorizes the early site permit holder to install the foundations, including the placement of concrete, for safety- and security-related SSCs under the limited work authorization.
(d) Contractor/vendors (C/Vs) who implement FFD programs or program elements, to the extent that the licensees and other entities specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section rely on those C/V FFD programs or program elements to meet the requirements of this part, shall comply with the requirements of this part.
(e) This part does not apply to either spent fuel storage facility licensees or
non-power reactor licensees who possess, use, or transport formula quantities of irradiated SSNM.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106250, Dec. 30, 2024, § 26.3 was amended in paragraph (e) by removing the word “reactor” and adding in its place the phrase “production or utilization facility”, effective Jan. 29, 2025.
§ 26.4
FFD program applicability to categories of individuals.
(a) All persons who are granted unescorted access to nuclear power reactor protected areas by the licensees in § 26.3(a) and, as applicable, (c) and perform the following duties shall be subject to an FFD program that meets all of the requirements of this part, except subpart K of this part:
(1) Operating or onsite directing of the operation of systems and components that a risk-informed evaluation process has shown to be significant to public health and safety;
(2) Performing health physics or chemistry duties required as a member of the onsite emergency response organization minimum shift complement;
(3) Performing the duties of a fire brigade member who is responsible for understanding the effects of fire and fire suppressants on safe shutdown capability;
(4) Performing maintenance or onsite directing of the maintenance of SSCs that a risk-informed evaluation process has shown to be significant to public health and safety; and
(5) Performing security duties as an armed security force officer, alarm station operator, response team leader, or watchman, hereinafter referred to as security personnel.
(b) All persons who are granted unescorted access to nuclear power reactor protected areas by the licensees in § 26.3(a) and, as applicable, (c) and who do not perform the duties described in paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to an FFD program that meets all of the requirements of this part, except §§ 26.205 through 26.209 and subpart K of this part.
(c) All persons who are required by a licensee in § 26.3(a) and, as applicable, (c) to physically report to the licensee's Technical Support Center or Emergency Operations Facility by licensee emergency plans and procedures shall be subject to an FFD program that meets all of the requirement of this part, except §§ 26.205 through 26.209 and subpart K of this part.
(d) Any individual whose duties for the licensees and other entities in § 26.3(b) require him or her to have the following types of access or perform the following activities shall be subject to an FFD program that meets all of the requirements of this part, except subparts I and K of this part:
(1) All persons who are granted unescorted access to Category IA material;
(2) All persons who create or have access to procedures or records for safeguarding SSNM;
(3) All persons who measure Category IA material;
(4) All persons who transport or escort Category IA material; and
(5) All persons who guard Category IA material.
(e) When construction activities begin, any individual whose duties for the licensees and other entities in § 26.3(c) require him or her to have the following types of access or perform the following activities at the location where the nuclear power plant will be constructed and operated shall be subject to an FFD program that meets all of the requirements of this part, except subparts I and K of this part:
(1) Serves as security personnel required by the NRC, until the licensees or other entities receive special nuclear material in the form of fuel assemblies, at which time individuals who serve as security personnel required by the NRC must meet the requirements applicable to security personnel in paragraph (a)(5) of this section;
(2) Performs quality assurance, quality control, or quality verification activities related to safety- or security-related construction activities;
(3) Based on a designation under § 26.406 by a licensee or other entity, monitors the fitness of the individuals specified in paragraph (f) of this section;
(4) Witnesses or determines inspections, tests, and analyses certification required under Part 52 of this chapter;
(5) Supervises or manages the construction of safety- or security-related SSCs; or
(6) Directs, as defined in § 26.5, or implements the access authorization program, including—
(i) Having access to the information used by the licensee or other entity to make access authorization determinations, including information stored in electronic format;
(ii) Making access authorization determinations;
(iii) Issuing entry-control picture badges in accordance with access authorization determinations;
(iv) Conducting background investigations or psychological assessments used by the licensee or other entity to make access authorization determinations, except that he or she shall be subject to behavioral observation only when he or she is present at the location where the nuclear power plant will be constructed and operated, and licensees and other entities may rely on a local hospital or other organization that meets the requirements of 49 CFR Part 40, “Procedures for Department of Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Programs” to collect his or her specimens for drug and alcohol testing;
(v) Adjudicating reviews or appeals of access authorization determinations;
(vi) Auditing the access authorization program; or
(vii) Performing any of the activities or having any of the duties listed in paragraph (e)(6) of this section for any C/V upon whom the licensee's or other entity's access authorization program will rely.
(f) Any individual who is constructing or directing the construction of safety- or security-related SSCs shall be subject to an FFD program that meets the requirements of subpart K of this part, unless the licensee or other entity subjects these individuals to an FFD program that meets all of the requirements of this part, except for subparts I and K of this part.
(g) All FFD program personnel who are involved in the day-to-day operations of the program, as defined by the procedures of the licensees and other entities in § 26.3(a) through (c), and, as applicable, (d), and whose duties require them to have the following types of access or perform the following activities shall be subject to an FFD program that meets all of the requirements of this part, except subparts I and K of this part, and, at the licensee's or other entity's discretion, subpart C of this part:
(1) All persons who can link test results with the individual who was tested before an FFD policy violation determination is made, including, but not limited to the MRO;
(2) All persons who make determinations of fitness;
(3) All persons who make authorization decisions;
(4) All persons involved in selecting or notifying individuals for testing; and
(5) All persons involved in the collection or onsite testing of specimens.
(h) Individuals who have applied for authorization to have the types of access or perform the activities described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section shall be subject to §§ 26.31(c)(1), 26.35(b), 26.37, 26.39, and the applicable requirements of subparts C, and E through H of this part.
(i) The following individuals are not subject to an FFD program under this part:
(1) Individuals who are not employed by a licensee or other entity in this part, who do not routinely provide FFD program services to a licensee or other entity in this part, and whose normal workplace is not at the licensee's or other entity's facility, but who may be called on to provide an FFD program service, including, but not limited to, collecting specimens for drug and alcohol testing, performing behavioral observation, or providing input to a determination of fitness. Such individuals may include, but are not limited to, hospital, employee assistance program (EAP) or substance abuse treatment facility personnel, or other medical professionals;
(2) NRC employees, law enforcement personnel, or offsite emergency fire and medical response personnel while responding on site;
(3) SSNM transporter personnel who are subject to U.S. Department of Transportation drug and alcohol FFD
programs that require random testing for drugs and alcohol; and
(4) The FFD program personnel of a program that is regulated by another Federal agency or State on which a licensee or other entity relies to meet the requirements of this part, as permitted under §§ 26.4(j), 26.31(b)(2), and 26.405(e), if the FFD program personnel are not employed by the licensee or other entity and their normal workplace is not at the licensee's or other entity's facility.
(j) Individuals who are subject to this part and who are also subject to a program regulated by another Federal agency or State need be covered by only those elements of an FFD program that are not included in the Federal agency or State program, as long as all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The individuals are subject to pre-access (or pre-employment), random, for-cause, and post-event testing for the drugs and drug metabolites specified in § 26.31(d)(1) at or below the cutoff levels specified in § 26.163(a)(1) for initial drug testing and in § 26.163(b)(1) for confirmatory drug testing;
(2) The individuals are subject to pre-access (or pre-employment), random, for-cause, and post-event testing for alcohol at or below the cutoff levels specified in § 26.103(a) and breath specimens are subject to confirmatory testing, if required, with an EBT that meets the requirements specified in § 26.91;
(3) Urine specimens are tested for validity and the presence of drugs and drug metabolites at a Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)-certified laboratory, as defined in § 26.5;
(4) Training is provided to address the knowledge and abilities (KAs) listed in § 26.29(a)(1) through (a)(10); and
(5) Provisions are made to ensure that the testing agency or organization notifies the licensee or other entity granting authorization of any FFD policy violation.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 73941, Nov. 30, 2010; 87 FR 71455, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.5
Definitions.
Acute fatigue
means fatigue from causes (e.g., restricted sleep, sustained wakefulness, task demands) occurring within the past 24 hours.
Adulterated specimen
means a urine specimen that has been altered, as evidenced by test results showing either a substance that is not a normal constituent of urine or showing an abnormal concentration of an endogenous substance.
Alertness
means the ability to remain awake and sustain attention.
Aliquot
means a portion of a specimen that is used for testing. It is taken as a sample representing the whole specimen.
Analytical run
means the process of testing a group of urine specimens for validity or for the presence of drugs and/or drug metabolites. For the purposes of defining the periods within which performance testing must be conducted by any licensee testing facility or HHS-certified laboratory that continuously processes specimens, an analytical run is defined as no more than an 8-hour period. For a facility that analyzes specimens in batches, an analytical run is defined as a group of specimens that are handled and tested together.
Authorization
means that a licensee or other entity in § 26.3 has determined that an individual has met the requirements of this part to be granted or maintain the types of access or perform the duties specified in § 26.4(a) through (e), and, at the licensee's or other entity's discretion, § 26.4(f) or (g).
Best effort
means documented actions that a licensee or other entity who is subject to subpart C of this part takes to obtain suitable inquiry and employment information in order to determine whether an individual may be granted authorization, when the primary source of information refuses or indicates an inability or unwillingness to provide the information within 3 business days of the request and the licensee or other entity relies on a secondary source to meet the requirement.
Blood alcohol concentration (BAC)
means the mass of alcohol in a volume of blood.
Calibrator
means a solution of known concentration in the appropriate matrix that is used to define expected outcomes of a measurement procedure or
to compare the response obtained with the response of a donor specimen or quality control sample. The concentration of the analyte of interest in the calibrator is known within limits ascertained during its preparation.
Cancelled test
means the test result reported by the MRO to the licensee or other entity when a specimen has been reported to the MRO by the HHS-certified laboratory as an invalid result (for which the donor has no legitimate explanation), a specimen has been rejected for testing by the licensee testing facility or HHS-certified laboratory, or the retesting of a single specimen or the testing of Bottle B of a split specimen fails to reconfirm the original test result. For alcohol testing only,
cancelled test
means a test result that was not acceptable because testing did not meet the quality assurance and quality control requirements in § 26.91.
Carryover
means the effect that occurs when a test result has been affected by a preceding sample or specimen during analysis.
Category IA material
means SSNM that is directly usable in the manufacture of a nuclear explosive device, except if the material meets any of the following criteria:
(1) The dimensions are large enough (at least 2 meters in one dimension, greater than 1 meter in each of two dimensions, or greater than 25 centimeters in each of three dimensions) to preclude hiding the item on an individual;
(2) The total weight of an encapsulated item of SSNM is such that it cannot be carried inconspicuously by one person (
i.e.
, at least 50 kilograms gross weight); or
(3) The quantity of SSNM (less than 0.05 formula kilograms) in each container requires protracted diversions to accumulate 5 formula kilograms.
Certifying Scientist
means the individual at an HHS-certified laboratory responsible for verifying the chain of custody and scientific reliability of any test result reported by an HHS-certified laboratory.
Chain of custody
means procedures to account for the integrity of each specimen or aliquot by tracking its handling and storage from the point of specimen collection to final disposition of the specimen and its aliquots. “Chain of custody” and “custody and control” are synonymous and may be used interchangeably.
Circadian variation in alertness and performance
means the increases and decreases in alertness and cognitive/motor functioning caused by human physiological processes (e.g., body temperature, release of hormones) that vary on an approximately 24-hour cycle.
Collection site
means a designated place where individuals present themselves for the purpose of providing a specimen of their urine, oral fluids, and/or breath to be analyzed for the presence of drugs or alcohol.
Collector
means a person who is trained in the collection procedures of subpart E, instructs and assists a specimen donor at a collection site, and receives and makes an initial examination of the specimen(s) provided by the donor.
Commission
means the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) or its duly authorized representatives.
Confirmatory drug or alcohol test
means a second analytical procedure to identify the presence of alcohol or a specific drug or drug metabolite in a specimen. The purpose of a confirmatory test is to ensure the reliability and accuracy of an initial test result.
Confirmatory validity test
means a second test performed on a different aliquot of the original urine specimen to further support a validity test result.
Confirmed test result
means a test result that demonstrates that an individual has used drugs and/or alcohol in violation of the requirements of this part or has attempted to subvert the testing process by submitting an adulterated or substituted urine specimen. For drugs, adulterants, and substituted specimens, a confirmed test result is determined by the Medical Review Officer (MRO), after discussion with the donor subsequent to the MRO's receipt of a positive confirmatory drug test result from the HHS-certified laboratory and/or a confirmatory substituted or adulterated validity test result from the HHS-certified laboratory for that donor. For alcohol, a confirmed test result is based on a positive confirmatory
alcohol test result from an evidential breath testing device (EBT) without MRO review of the test result.
Constructing or construction activities
mean, for the purposes of this part, the tasks involved in building a nuclear power plant that are performed at the location where the nuclear power plant will be constructed and operated. These tasks include fabricating, erecting, integrating, and testing safety- and security-related SSCs, and the installation of their foundations, including the placement of concrete.
Contractor/vendor (C/V)
means any company, or any individual not employed by a licensee or other entity specified in § 26.3(a) through (c), who is providing work or services to a licensee or other entity covered in § 26.3(a) through (c), either by contract, purchase order, oral agreement, or other arrangement.
Control
means a sample used to evaluate whether an analytical procedure or test is operating within predefined tolerance limits.
Cumulative fatigue
means the increase in fatigue over consecutive sleep-wake periods resulting from inadequate rest.
Cutoff level
means the concentration or decision criteria established for designating and reporting a test result as positive, of questionable validity (referring to validity screening or initial validity test results from a licensee testing facility), or adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid (referring to initial or confirmatory test results from an HHS-certified laboratory).
Dilute specimen
means a urine specimen with creatinine and specific gravity values that are lower than expected but are still within the physiologically producible ranges of human urine.
Directing
means the exercise of control over a work activity by an individual who is directly involved in the execution of the work activity, and either makes technical decisions for that activity without subsequent technical review, or is ultimately responsible for the correct performance of that work activity.
Donor
means the individual from whom a specimen is collected.
Eight (8)-hour shift schedule
means a schedule that averages not more than 9 hours per workday over the entire shift cycle.
Employment action
means a change in job responsibilities or removal from a job, or the employer-mandated implementation of a plan for substance abuse treatment in order to avoid a change in or removal from a job, because of the individual's use of drugs or alcohol.
Fatigue
means the degradation in an individual's cognitive and motor functioning resulting from inadequate rest.
Federal custody and control form (Federal CCF)
means any HHS-approved form, which has not expired, that is published in the
Federal Register
and is used to document the collection, custody, transport, and testing of a specimen.
Formula quantity
means SSNM in any combination in a quantity of 5000 grams or more computed by the formula, grams = (grams contained U-235) + 2.5 (grams U-233 + grams plutonium). This class of material is sometimes referred to as a Category I quantity of material.
HHS-certified laboratory
means a laboratory that is certified to meet the standards of the
Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs
(the HHS Guidelines) at the time that testing of a specimen is performed for a licensee or other entity and performs that testing for a licensee or other entity in accordance with the HHS Guidelines, unless otherwise specified in this part.
Illegal drug
means, for the purposes of this regulation, any drug that is included in Schedules I to V of section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act [21 U.S.C. 812], but not when used pursuant to a valid prescription or when used as otherwise authorized by law.
Increased threat condition
means an increase in the protective measure level, relative to the lowest protective measure level applicable to the site during the previous 60 days, as promulgated by an NRC Advisory.
Initial drug test
means a test to differentiate “negative” specimens from those that require confirmatory drug testing.
Initial validity test
means a first test used to determine whether a specimen is adulterated, dilute, substituted, or
invalid, and may require confirmatory validity testing.
Invalid result
means the result reported by an HHS-certified laboratory in accordance with the criteria established in § 26.161(f) when a positive, negative, adulterated, or substituted result cannot be established for a specific drug or specimen validity test.
Legal action
means a formal action taken by a law enforcement authority or court of law, including an arrest, an indictment, the filing of charges, a conviction, or the mandated implementation of a plan for substance abuse treatment in order to avoid a permanent record of an arrest or conviction, in response to any of the following activities:
(1) The use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs;
(2) The abuse of legal drugs or alcohol; or
(3) The refusal to take a drug or alcohol test.
Licensee testing facility
means a drug and specimen validity testing facility that is operated by a licensee or other entity who is subject to this part to perform tests of urine specimens.
Limit of detection (LOD)
means the lowest concentration of an analyte that an analytical procedure can reliably detect, which could be significantly lower than the established cutoff levels.
Limit of quantitation (LOQ)
means for quantitation assays, the lowest concentration at which the identity and concentration of the analyte can be accurately established.
Lot
means a number of units of an item (
e.g.,
drug test kits, reagents, quality control samples) manufactured from the same starting materials within a specified period of time for which the manufacturer states that the items have essentially the same performance characteristics and the same expiration date.
Maintenance
means, for the purposes of § 26.4(a)(4), the following onsite maintenance activities: Modification, surveillance, post-maintenance testing, and corrective and preventive maintenance.
Medical Review Officer (MRO)
means a licensed physician who is responsible for receiving laboratory results generated by a Part 26 drug testing program and who has the appropriate medical training to properly interpret and evaluate an individual's drug and validity test results together with his or her medical history and any other relevant biomedical information.
Nominal
means the limited flexibility that is permitted in meeting a scheduled due date for completing a recurrent activity that is required under this part, such as the nominal 12-month frequency required for FFD refresher training in § 26.29(c)(2) and the nominal 12-month frequency required for certain audits in § 26.41(c)(1). Completing a recurrent activity at a nominal frequency means that the activity may be completed within a period that is 25 percent longer or shorter than the period required in this part. The next scheduled due date would be no later than the current scheduled due date plus the required frequency for completing the activity.
Other entity
means any corporation, firm, partnership, limited liability company, association, C/V, or other organization who is subject to this part under § 26.3(a) through (c), but is not licensed by the NRC.
Oxidizing adulterant
means a substance that acts alone or in combination with other substances to oxidize drugs or drug metabolites to prevent the detection of the drugs or drug metabolites, or a substance that affects the reagents in either the initial or confirmatory drug test. Examples of these agents include, but are not limited to, nitrites, pyridinium chlorochromate, chromium (VI), bleach, iodine/iodide, halogens, peroxidase, and peroxide.
Positive result
means, for drug testing, the result reported by a licensee testing facility or HHS-certified laboratory when a specimen contains a drug or drug metabolite equal to or greater than the cutoff concentration. A result reported by an HHS-certified laboratory that a specimen contains a drug or drug metabolite below the cutoff concentration is also a positive result when the laboratory has conducted the special analysis permitted in § 26.163(a)(2). For alcohol testing, a positive result means the result reported by a collection site when the
BAC indicated by testing a specimen is equal to or greater than the cutoff concentrations established in this part.
Potentially disqualifying FFD information
means information demonstrating that an individual has—
(1) Violated a licensee's or other entity's FFD policy;
(2) Had authorization denied or terminated unfavorably under §§ 26.35(c)(2), 26.53(i), 26.63(d), 26.65(g), 26.67(c), 26.69(f), or 26.75(b) through (e);
(3) Used, sold, or possessed illegal drugs;
(4) Abused legal drugs or alcohol;
(5) Subverted or attempted to subvert a drug or alcohol testing program;
(6) Refused to take a drug or alcohol test;
(7) Been subjected to a plan for substance abuse treatment (except for self-referral); or
(8) Had legal action or employment action, as defined in this section, taken for alcohol or drug use.
Protected area
has the same meaning as in § 73.2(g) of this chapter: An area encompassed by physical barriers and to which access is controlled.
Quality control sample
means a sample used to evaluate whether an analytical procedure is operating within predefined tolerance limits. Calibrators, controls, negative samples, and blind performance test samples are collectively referred to as “quality control samples” and each is individually referred to as a “sample.”
Questionable validity
means the results of validity screening or initial validity tests at a licensee testing facility indicating that a urine specimen may be adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid.
Rejected for testing
means the result reported to the MRO by a licensee testing facility or HHS-certified laboratory when no tests can be performed on a specimen.
Responsible Person
means the person at the HHS-certified laboratory who assumes professional, organizational, educational, and administrative responsibility for the day-to-day management of the HHS-certified laboratory.
Reviewing official
means an employee of a licensee or other entity specified in § 26.3(a) through (c), who is designated by the licensee or other entity to be responsible for reviewing and evaluating any potentially disqualifying FFD information about an individual, including, but not limited to, the results of a determination of fitness, as defined in § 26.189, in order to determine whether the individual may be granted or maintain authorization.
Safety-related structures, systems, and components (SSCs)
mean, for the purposes of this part, those structures, systems, and components that are relied on to remain functional during and following design basis events to ensure the integrity of the reactor coolant pressure boundary, the capability to shut down the reactor and maintain it in a safe shutdown condition, or the capability to prevent or mitigate the consequences of accidents that could result in potential offsite exposure comparable to the guidelines in 10 CFR 50.34(a)(1).
Security-related SSCs
mean, for the purposes of this part, those structures, systems, and components that the licensee will rely on to implement the licensee's physical security and safeguards contingency plans that either are required under Part 73 of this chapter if the licensee is a construction permit applicant or holder or an early site permit holder, as described in § 26.3(c)(3) through (c)(5), respectively, or are included in the licensee's application if the licensee is a combined license applicant or holder, as described in § 26.3(c)(1) and (c)(2), respectively.
Shift cycle
means a series of consecutive work shifts and days off that is planned by the licensee or other entity to repeat regularly, thereby constituting a continuous shift schedule.
Standard
means a reference material of known purity or a solution containing a reference material at a known concentration.
Strategic special nuclear material (SSNM)
means uranium-235 (contained in uranium enriched to 20 percent or more in the uranium-235 isotope), uranium-233, or plutonium.
Substance abuse
means the use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs, or the abuse of prescription and over-the-counter drugs, or the abuse of alcohol.
Substituted specimen
means a specimen that has been submitted in place of the donor's urine, as evidenced by
creatinine and specific gravity values that are outside the physiologically producible ranges of human urine.
Subversion and subvert the testing process
mean a willful act to avoid being tested or to bring about an inaccurate drug or alcohol test result for oneself or others at any stage of the testing process (including selection and notification of individuals for testing, specimen collection, specimen analysis, and test result reporting), and adulterating, substituting, or otherwise causing a specimen to provide an inaccurate test result.
Supervises or manages
means the exercise of control over a work activity by an individual who is not directly involved in the execution of the work activity, but who either makes technical decisions for that activity without subsequent technical review, or is ultimately responsible for the correct performance of that work activity.
Ten (10)-hour shift schedule
means a schedule that averages more than 9 hours, but not more than 11 hours, per workday over the entire shift cycle.
Transporter
means a general licensee, under 10 CFR 70.20(a), who is authorized to possess formula quantities of SSNM, in the regular course of carriage for another or storage incident thereto, and includes the driver or operator of any conveyance, and the accompanying guards or escorts.
Twelve (12)-hour shift schedule
means a schedule that averages more than 11 hours, but not more than 12 hours, per workday over the entire shift cycle.
Unit outage
means, for the purposes of this part, that the reactor unit is disconnected from the electrical grid.
Validity screening test
means a test to determine the need for initial validity testing of a urine specimen, using a non-instrumented test in which the endpoint result is obtained by visual evaluation (read by the human eye), or a test that is instrumented to the extent that results are machine-read.
Validity screening test lot
means a group of validity screening tests that were made from the same starting material.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 86909, Dec. 2, 2016; 83 FR 58464, Nov. 20, 2018; 87 FR 71455, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.7
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding on the Commission.
§ 26.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The NRC has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part for approval by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0146.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 26.9, 26.27, 26.29, 26.31, 26.33, 26.35, 26.37, 26.39, 26.41, 26.53, 26.55, 26.57, 26.59, 26.61, 26.63, 26.65, 26.67, 26.69, 26.75, 26.77, 26.85, 26.87, 26.89, 26.91, 26.93, 26.95, 26.97, 26.99, 26.101, 26.103, 26.107, 26.109, 26.111, 26.113, 26.115, 26.117, 26.119, 26.125, 26.127, 26.129, 26.135, 26.137, 26.139, 26.153, 26.157, 26.159, 26.163, 26.165, 26.167, 26.168, 26.169, 26.183, 26.185, 26.187, 26.189, 26.203, 26.205, 26.207, 26.211, 26.401, 26.403, 26.405, 26.406, 26.407, 26.411, 26.413, 26.415, 26.417, 26.711, 26.713, 26.715, 26.717, 26.719, and 26.821.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71456, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.9
Specific exemptions.
Upon application of any interested person or on its own initiative, the Commission may grant such exemptions from the requirements of the regulations in this part as it determines are authorized by law and will not endanger life or property or the common defense and security, and are otherwise in the public interest.
§ 26.11
Communications.
Except where otherwise specified in this part, all communications, applications, and reports concerning the regulations in this part must be sent either by mail addressed to ATTN: NRC Document Control Desk, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001; by hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852-2738, between the hours of 8:15 a.m. and 4 p.m. eastern time; or, where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, e-mail, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information. Copies of all communications must be sent to the appropriate regional office and resident inspector (addresses for the NRC Regional Offices are listed in Appendix D to Part 20 of this chapter).
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 62681, Dec. 1, 2009; 80 FR 74979, Dec. 1, 2015; 88 FR 57878, Aug. 24, 2023]

# Subpart B—Program Elements
§ 26.21
Fitness-for-duty program.
The licensees and other entities specified in § 26.3(a) through (c) shall establish, implement, and maintain FFD programs that, at a minimum, comprise the program elements contained in this subpart. The individuals specified in § 26.4(a) through (e) and (g), and, at the licensee's or other entity's discretion, § 26.4(f), and, if necessary, § 26.4(j) shall be subject to these FFD programs. Licensees and other entities may rely on the FFD program or program elements of a C/V, as defined in § 26.5, if the C/V's FFD program or program elements meet the applicable requirements of this part.
§ 26.23
Performance objectives.
Fitness-for-duty programs must—
(a) Provide reasonable assurance that individuals are trustworthy and reliable as demonstrated by the avoidance of substance abuse;
(b) Provide reasonable assurance that individuals are not under the influence of any substance, legal or illegal, or mentally or physically impaired from any cause, which in any way adversely affects their ability to safely and competently perform their duties;
(c) Provide reasonable measures for the early detection of individuals who are not fit to perform the duties that require them to be subject to the FFD program;
(d) Provide reasonable assurance that the workplaces subject to this part are free from the presence and effects of illegal drugs and alcohol; and
(e) Provide reasonable assurance that the effects of fatigue and degraded alertness on individuals' abilities to safely and competently perform their duties are managed commensurate with maintaining public health and safety.
§ 26.25
[Reserved]
§ 26.27
Written policy and procedures.
(a)
General.
Each licensee and other entity shall establish, implement, and maintain written policies and procedures to meet the general performance objectives and applicable requirements of this part.
(b)
Policy.
The FFD policy statement must be clear, concise, and readily available, in its most current form, to all individuals who are subject to the policy. Methods of making the statement readily available include, but are not limited to, posting the policy in multiple work areas, providing individuals with brochures, or allowing individuals to print the policy from a computer. The policy statement must be written in sufficient detail to provide affected individuals with information on what is expected of them and what consequences may result from a lack of
adherence to the policy. At a minimum, the written policy statement must—
(1) Describe the consequences of the following actions:
(i) The use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs on or off site;
(ii) The abuse of legal drugs and alcohol; and
(iii) The misuse of prescription and over-the-counter drugs;
(2) Describe the requirement that individuals who are notified that they have been selected for random testing must report to the collection site within the time period specified by the licensee or other entity;
(3) Describe the actions that constitute a refusal to provide a specimen for testing, the consequences of a refusal to test, as well as the consequences of subverting or attempting to subvert the testing process;
(4) Prohibit the consumption of alcohol, at a minimum—
(i) Within an abstinence period of 5 hours preceding the individual's arrival at the licensee's or other entity's facility, except as permitted in § 26.27(c)(3); and
(ii) During the period of any tour of duty;
(5) Convey that abstinence from alcohol for the 5 hours preceding any scheduled tour of duty is considered to be a minimum that is necessary, but may not be sufficient, to ensure that the individual is fit for duty;
(6) Address other factors that could affect FFD, such as mental stress, fatigue, or illness, and the use of prescription and over-the-counter medications that could cause impairment;
(7) Provide a description of any program that is available to individuals who are seeking assistance in dealing with drug, alcohol, fatigue, or other problems that could adversely affect an individual's ability to safely and competently perform the duties that require an individual to be subject to this subpart;
(8) Describe the consequences of violating the policy;
(9) Describe the individual's responsibility to report legal actions, as defined in § 26.5;
(10) Describe the responsibilities of managers, supervisors, and escorts to report FFD concerns; and
(11) Describe the individual's responsibility to report FFD concerns.
(c)
Procedures.
Each licensee and other entity shall prepare, implement, and maintain written procedures that describe the methods to be used in implementing the FFD policy and the requirements of this part. The procedures must—
(1) Describe the methods and techniques to be used in testing for drugs and alcohol, including procedures for protecting the privacy and other rights (including due process) of an individual who provides a specimen, procedures for protecting the integrity of the specimen, and procedures used to ensure that the test results are valid and attributable to the correct individual;
(2) Describe immediate and followup actions that will be taken, and the procedures to be used, in those cases in which individuals are determined to have—
(i) Been involved in the use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs;
(ii) Consumed alcohol to excess before the mandatory pre-work abstinence period, or consumed any alcohol during the mandatory pre-work abstinence period or while on duty, as determined by a test that measures BAC;
(iii) Attempted to subvert the testing process by adulterating or diluting specimens (in vivo or in vitro), substituting specimens, or by any other means;
(iv) Refused to provide a specimen for analysis; or
(v) Had legal action taken relating to drug or alcohol use, as defined in § 26.5;
(3) Describe the process that the licensee or other entity will use to ensure that individuals who are called in to perform an unscheduled working tour are fit for duty. At a minimum—
(i) The procedure must require the individual who is called in to state whether the individual considers himself or herself fit for duty and whether he or she has consumed alcohol within the pre-duty abstinence period stated in the policy;
(ii) If the individual has consumed alcohol within this period and the individual is called in for an unscheduled
working tour, including an unscheduled working tour to respond to an emergency, the procedure must—
(A) Require a determination of fitness by breath alcohol analysis or other means;
(B) Permit the licensee or other entity to assign the individual to duties that require him or her to be subject to this subpart, if the results of the determination of fitness indicate that the individual is fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties;
(C) Prohibit the licensee or other entity from assigning the individual to duties that require him or her to be subject to this subpart, if the individual is not required to respond to an emergency and the results of the determination of fitness indicate that the individual may be impaired;
(D) State that consumption of alcohol during the 5-hour abstinence period required in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section may not by itself preclude a licensee or other entity from using individuals who are needed to respond to an emergency. However, if the determination of fitness indicates that an individual who has been called in for an unscheduled working tour to respond to an emergency may be impaired, the procedure must require the establishment of controls and conditions under which the individual who has been called in can perform work, if necessary; and
(E) State that no sanctions may be imposed on an individual who is called in to perform any unscheduled working tour for having consumed alcohol within the pre-duty abstinence period stated in the policy.
(iii) If the individual reports that he or she considers himself or herself to be unfit for duty for other reasons, including illness, fatigue, or other potentially impairing conditions, and the individual is called in, the procedure must require the establishment of controls and conditions under which the individual can perform work, if necessary;
(4) Describe the process to be followed if an individual's behavior raises a concern regarding the possible use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs on or off site; the possible possession or consumption of alcohol on site; or impairment from any cause which in any way could adversely affect the individual's ability to safely and competently perform his or her duties. The procedure must require that individuals who have an FFD concern about another individual's behavior shall contact the personnel designated in the procedures to report the concern.
(d)
Review.
The NRC may, at any time, review the written policy and procedures to assure that they meet the performance objectives and requirements of this part.
§ 26.29
Training.
(a)
Training content.
Licensees and other entities shall ensure that the individuals who are subject to this subpart have the following KAs:
(1) Knowledge of the policy and procedures that apply to the individual, the methods that will be used to implement them, and the consequences of violating the policy and procedures;
(2) Knowledge of the individual's role and responsibilities under the FFD program;
(3) Knowledge of the roles and responsibilities of others, such as the MRO and the human resources, FFD, and EAP staffs;
(4) Knowledge of the EAP services available to the individual;
(5) Knowledge of the personal and public health and safety hazards associated with abuse of illegal and legal drugs and alcohol;
(6) Knowledge of the potential adverse effects on job performance of prescription and over-the-counter drugs, alcohol, dietary factors, illness, mental stress, and fatigue;
(7) Knowledge of the prescription and over-the-counter drugs and dietary factors that have the potential to affect drug and alcohol test results;
(8) Ability to recognize illegal drugs and indications of the illegal use, sale, or possession of drugs;
(9) Ability to observe and detect performance degradation, indications of impairment, or behavioral changes; and
(10) Knowledge of the individual's responsibility to report an FFD concern and the ability to initiate appropriate actions, including referrals to the EAP
and person(s) designated by the licensee or other entity to receive FFD concerns.
(b)
Comprehensive examination.
Individuals who are subject to this subpart shall demonstrate the successful completion of training by passing a comprehensive examination that addresses the KAs in paragraph (a) of this section. The examination must include a comprehensive random sampling of all KAs with questions that test each KA, including at least one question for each KA. The minimum passing score required must be 80 percent. Remedial training and testing are required for individuals who fail to answer correctly at least 80 percent of the test questions. The examination may be administered using a variety of media, including, but not limited to, hard-copy test booklets with separate answer sheets or computer-based questions.
(c)
Training administration.
Licensees and other entities shall ensure that individuals who are subject to this subpart are trained, as follows:
(1) Training must be completed before the licensee or other entity grants initial authorization, as defined in § 26.55, and must be current before the licensee or other entity grants an authorization update, as defined in § 26.57, or authorization reinstatement, as defined in § 26.59;
(2) Individuals shall complete refresher training on a nominal 12-month frequency, or more frequently where the need is indicated. Indications of the need for more frequent training include, but are not limited to, an individual's failure to properly implement FFD program procedures and the frequency, nature, or severity of problems discovered through audits or the administration of the program. Individuals who pass a comprehensive annual examination that meets the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section may forgo the refresher training; and
(3) Initial and refresher training may be delivered using a variety of media (including, but not limited to, classroom lectures, required reading, video, or computer-based training systems). The licensee or other entity shall monitor the completion of training and provide a qualified instructor or designated subject matter expert to answer questions during the course of training.
(d)
Acceptance of training.
Licensees and other entities may accept training of individuals who have been subject to another training program that meets the requirements of this section and who have, within the past 12 months, either had initial or refresher training, or have successfully passed a comprehensive examination that meets the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 26.31
Drug and alcohol testing.
(a)
General.
To provide a means to deter and detect substance abuse, licensees and other entities who are subject to this part shall implement drug and alcohol testing programs for individuals who are subject to this subpart.
(b)
Assuring the honesty and integrity of FFD program personnel.
(1) Licensees and other entities who are subject to this subpart shall carefully select and monitor FFD program personnel, as defined in § 26.4(g), based on the highest standards of honesty and integrity, and shall implement measures to ensure that these standards are maintained. The measures must ensure that the honesty and integrity of these individuals are not compromised and that FFD program personnel are not subject to influence attempts attributable to personal relationships with any individuals who are subject to testing, an undetected or untreated substance abuse problem, or other factors. At a minimum, these measures must include the following considerations:
(i) Licensees and other entities shall complete appropriate background investigations, credit and criminal history checks, and psychological assessments of FFD program personnel before assignment to tasks directly associated with administration of the FFD program. The background investigations, credit and criminal history checks, and psychological assessments that are conducted to grant unescorted access authorization to individuals under a nuclear power plant licensee's access authorization program are acceptable to meet the requirements of this paragraph. The credit and criminal
history checks and psychological assessments must be updated nominally every 5 years;
(ii) Individuals who have personal relationships with a donor may not perform any assessment or evaluation procedures, including, but not limited to, determinations of fitness. These personal relationships may include, but are not limited to, supervisors, coworkers within the same work group, and relatives of the donor;
(iii) Except if a directly observed collection is required, a collector who has a personal relationship with the donor may collect specimens from the donor only if the integrity of specimen collections in these instances is assured through the following means:
(A) The collection must be monitored by an individual who does not have a personal relationship with the donor and who is designated by the licensee or other entity for this purpose, including, but not limited to, security force or quality assurance personnel; and
(B) Individuals who are designated to monitor collections in these instances shall be trained to monitor specimen collections and the preparation of specimens for transfer or shipping under the requirements of this part;
(iv) If a specimen must be collected under direct observation, the collector or an individual who serves as the observer, as permitted under § 26.115(e), may not have a personal relationship with the donor; and
(v) FFD program personnel shall be subject to a behavioral observation program designed to assure that they continue to meet the highest standards of honesty and integrity. When an MRO and MRO staff are on site at a licensee's or other entity's facility, the MRO and MRO staff shall be subject to behavioral observation.
(2) Licensees and other entities may rely on a local hospital or other organization that meets the requirements of 49 CFR Part 40, “Procedures for Department of Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Programs” to collect specimens for drug and alcohol testing from the FFD program personnel listed in § 26.4(g).
(c)
Conditions for testing.
Licensees and other entities shall administer drug and alcohol tests to the individuals who are subject to this subpart under the following conditions:
(1)
Pre-access.
In order to grant initial, updated, or reinstated authorization to an individual, as specified in subpart C of this part;
(2)
For cause.
In response to an individual's observed behavior or physical condition indicating possible substance abuse or after receiving credible information that an individual is engaging in substance abuse, as defined in § 26.5;
(3)
Post-event.
As soon as practical after an event involving a human error that was committed by an individual who is subject to this subpart, where the human error may have caused or contributed to the event. The licensee or other entity shall test the individual(s) who committed the error(s), and need not test individuals who were affected by the event whose actions likely did not cause or contribute to the event. The individual(s) who committed the human error(s) shall be tested if the event resulted in—
(i) A significant illness or personal injury to the individual to be tested or another individual, which within 4 hours after the event is recordable under the Department of Labor standards contained in 29 CFR 1904.7, “General Recording Criteria,” and subsequent amendments thereto, and results in death, days away from work, restricted work, transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, loss of consciousness, or other significant illness or injury as diagnosed by a physician or other licensed health care professional, even if it does not result in death, days away from work, restricted work or job transfer, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness;
(ii) A radiation exposure or release of radioactivity in excess of regulatory limits; or
(iii) Actual or potential substantial degradations of the level of safety of the plant;
(4)
Follow-up.
As part of a follow-up plan to verify an individual's continued abstinence from substance abuse; and
(5)
Random.
On a statistically random and unannounced basis, so that all individuals in the population subject to testing have an equal probability of being selected and tested.
(d)
General requirements for drug and alcohol testing
—(1)
Substances tested.
At a minimum, licensees and other entities shall test for marijuana metabolite, cocaine metabolite, opioids (codeine, morphine, 6-acetylmorphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and oxymorphone), amphetamines (amphetamine, methamphetamine, methylenedioxymethamphetamine, and methylenedioxyamphetamine), phencyclidine, and alcohol.
(i) In addition, licensees and other entities may consult with local law enforcement authorities, hospitals, and drug counseling services to determine whether other drugs with abuse potential are being used in the geographical locale of the facility and by the local workforce that may not be detected in the panel of drugs and drug metabolites specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(A) When appropriate, the licensee or other entity may add other drugs identified under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section to the panel of substances for testing, but only if the additional drugs are listed in Schedules I through V of section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act [21 U.S.C. 812].
(B) The licensee or other entity shall establish appropriate cutoff limits for these substances.
(C) The licensee or other entity shall establish rigorous testing procedures for these substances that are consistent with the intent of this part, so that the MRO can evaluate the use of these substances.
(D) The licensee or other entity may not conduct an analysis for any drug or drug metabolites except those identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section unless the assay and cutoff levels to be used are certified in writing as scientifically sound and legally defensible by an independent, qualified forensic toxicologist who has no relationships with manufacturers of the assays or instruments to be used or the HHS-certified laboratory that will conduct the testing for the licensee or other entity, which could be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The forensic toxicologist may not be an employee of the licensee or entity, and shall either be a Diplomate of the American Board of Forensic Toxicology or currently holds, has held, or is eligible to hold, the position of Responsible Person at an HHS-certified laboratory. All new assays and cutoff levels must be properly validated consistent with established forensic toxicological standards before implementation. Certification of the assay and cutoff levels is not required if the HHS Guidelines are revised to authorize use of the assay in testing for the additional drug or drug metabolites and the licensee or other entity uses the cutoff levels established in the HHS Guidelines for the drug or drug metabolites, or if the licensee or other entity received written approval of the NRC to test for the additional drug or drug metabolites before April 30, 2008.
(ii) When conducting post-event, followup, and for-cause testing, as defined in § 26.31(c), licensees and other entities may test for any drugs listed on Schedules I through V of section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act [21 U.S.C. 812] that an individual is suspected of having abused, and may consider any drugs or metabolites so detected when determining appropriate action under subpart D of this part. If the drug or metabolites for which testing will be performed under this paragraph are not included in the FFD program's drug panel, the assay and cutoff levels to be used in testing for the additional drugs must be certified by a forensic toxicologist under paragraph (d)(1)(i)(D) of this section. Test results that fall below the established cutoff levels may not be considered when determining appropriate action under subpart D of this part, except if special analyses of the specimen is performed under § 26.163(a)(2) by the HHS-certified laboratory.
(iii) The licensee or other entity shall document the additional drug(s) for which testing will be performed in written policies and procedures in which the substances for which testing will be performed are described.
(2)
Random testing.
Random testing must—
(i) Be administered in a manner that provides reasonable assurance that individuals are unable to predict the time periods during which specimens
will be collected. At a minimum, the FFD program shall—
(A) Take reasonable steps to either conceal from the workforce that collections will be performed during a scheduled collection period or create the appearance that specimens are being collected during a portion of each day on at least 4 days in each calendar week at each site. In the latter instance, the portions of each day and the days of the week must vary in a manner that cannot be predicted by donors; and
(B) Collect specimens on an unpredictable schedule, including weekends, backshifts, and holidays, and at various times during a shift;
(ii) At a minimum, be administered by the FFD program on a nominal weekly frequency;
(iii) Require individuals who are selected for random testing to report to the collection site as soon as reasonably practicable after notification, within the time period specified in the FFD program policy;
(iv) Ensure that all individuals in the population subject to testing have an equal probability of being selected and tested;
(v) Require that individuals who are off site when selected for testing, or who are on site and are not reasonably available for testing when selected, shall be tested at the earliest reasonable and practical opportunity when both the donor and collectors are available to collect specimens for testing and without prior notification to the individual that he or she has been selected for testing;
(vi) Provide that an individual completing a test is immediately eligible for another unannounced test; and
(vii) Ensure that the sampling process used to select individuals for random testing provides that the number of random tests performed annually is equal to at least 50 percent of the population that is subject to the FFD program.
(3)
Drug testing.
(i) Testing of urine specimens for drugs and validity, except validity screening and initial drug and validity tests performed by licensee testing facilities under paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, must be performed in a laboratory that is certified by HHS for that purpose, consistent with its standards and procedures for certification. Urine specimens sent to HHS-certified laboratories must be subject to initial validity and initial drug testing by the laboratory. Oral fluid specimens sent to HHS-certified laboratories must be subject to initial drug testing by the laboratory. Specimens that yield positive initial drug test results or are determined by initial validity testing to be of questionable validity must be subject to confirmatory testing by the laboratory, except for invalid specimens that cannot be tested. Licensees and other entities shall ensure that laboratories report results for all specimens sent for testing, including blind performance test samples.
(ii) Licensees and other entities may conduct validity screening, initial validity, and initial drug tests of urine aliquots to determine which specimens are valid and negative and need no further testing, provided that the licensee's or other entity's staff possesses the necessary training and skills for the tasks assigned, the staff's qualifications are documented, and adequate quality controls for the testing are implemented.
(iii) At a minimum, licensees and other entities shall apply the cutoff levels specified in § 26.163(a)(1) for initial drug testing at either the licensee testing facility or HHS-certified laboratory, and in § 26.163(b)(1) for confirmatory drug testing at the HHS-certified laboratory. At their discretion, licensees and other entities may implement programs with lower cutoff levels in testing for drugs and drug metabolites.
(A) If a licensee or other entity implements lower cutoff levels, and the MRO determines that an individual has violated the FFD policy using the licensee's or other entity's more stringent cutoff levels, the individual shall be subject to all management actions and sanctions required by the licensee's or other entity's FFD policy and this part, as if the individual had a confirmed positive drug test result using the cutoff levels specified in this subpart. The licensee or other entity shall document the more stringent cutoff levels in any written policies and
procedures in which cutoff levels for drug testing are described.
(B) The licensee or other entity shall uniformly apply the cutoff levels listed in § 26.163(a)(1) for initial drug testing and in § 26.163(b)(1) for confirmatory drug testing, or any more stringent cutoff levels implemented by the FFD program, to all tests performed under this part and equally to all individuals who are tested under this part, except as permitted in §§ 26.31(d)(1)(ii), 26.163(a)(2), and 26.165(c)(2).
(C) In addition, the scientific and technical suitability of any more stringent cutoff levels must be evaluated and certified, in writing, by a forensic toxicologist who meets the requirements set forth in § 26.31(d)(1)(i)(D). Certification of the more stringent cutoff levels is not required if the HHS Guidelines are revised to lower the cutoff levels for the drug or drug metabolites in Federal workplace drug testing programs and the licensee or other entity implements the cutoff levels published in the HHS Guidelines, or if the licensee or other entity received written approval of the NRC to test for lower cutoff levels before April 30, 2008.
(4)
Alcohol testing.
Initial tests for alcohol must be administered by breath or oral fluids analysis using alcohol analysis devices that meet the requirements of § 26.91(a). If the initial test shows a BAC of 0.02 percent or greater, a confirmatory test for alcohol must be performed. The confirmatory test must be performed with an EBT that meets the requirements of § 26.91(b).
(5)
Medical conditions.
(i) If an individual has a medical condition that makes collection of breath, oral fluids, or urine specimens difficult or hazardous, the MRO may authorize an alternative evaluation process, tailored to the individual case, to meet the requirements of this part for drug and alcohol testing. The alternative process must include measures to prevent subversion and achieve results that are comparable to those produced by urinalysis for drugs and breath analysis for alcohol.
(ii) If an individual requires medical attention, including, but not limited to, an injured worker in an emergency medical facility who is required to have a post-event test, treatment may not be delayed to conduct drug and alcohol testing.
(6)
Limitations of testing.
Specimens collected under NRC regulations may only be designated or approved for testing as described in this part and may not be used to conduct any other analysis or test without the written permission of the donor. Analyses and tests that may not be conducted include, but are not limited to, DNA testing, serological typing, or any other medical or genetic test used for diagnostic or specimen identification purposes.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 38327, Aug. 3, 2009; 87 FR 71456, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.33
Behavioral observation.
Licensees and other entities shall ensure that the individuals who are subject to this subpart are subject to behavioral observation. Behavioral observation must be performed by individuals who are trained under § 26.29 to detect behaviors that may indicate possible use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs; use or possession of alcohol on site or while on duty; or impairment from fatigue or any cause that, if left unattended, may constitute a risk to public health and safety or the common defense and security. Individuals who are subject to this subpart shall report any FFD concerns about other individuals to the personnel designated in the FFD policy.
§ 26.35
Employee assistance programs.
(a) Each licensee and other entity who is subject to this part shall maintain an EAP to strengthen the FFD program by offering confidential assessment, short-term counseling, referral services, and treatment monitoring to individuals who have problems that could adversely affect the individuals' abilities to safely and competently perform their duties. Employee assistance programs must be designed to achieve early intervention and provide for confidential assistance.
(b) Licensees and other entities need not provide EAP services to a C/V's employees, including those whose work location is a licensee's or other entity's
facility, or to individuals who have applied for, but have not yet been granted, authorization under subpart C of this part.
(c) The EAP staff shall protect the identity and privacy of any individual (including those who have self-referred) seeking assistance from the EAP, except if the individual waives the right to privacy in writing or a determination is made that the individual's condition or actions pose or have posed an immediate hazard to himself or herself or others.
(1) Licensees and other entities may not require the EAP to routinely report the names of individuals who self-refer to the EAP or the nature of the assistance the individuals sought.
(2) If EAP personnel determine that an individual poses or has posed an immediate hazard to himself or herself or others, EAP personnel shall so inform FFD program management, and need not obtain a written waiver of the right to privacy from the individual. The individual conditions or actions that EAP personnel shall report to FFD program management include, but are not limited to, substantive reasons to believe that the individual—
(i) Is likely to commit self-harm or harm to others;
(ii) Has been impaired from using drugs or alcohol while in a work status and has a continuing substance abuse disorder that makes it likely he or she will be impaired while in a work status in the future; or
(iii) Has ever engaged in any acts that would be reportable under § 26.719(b)(1) through (b)(3).
(3) If a licensee or other entity receives a report from EAP personnel under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that the requirements of §§ 26.69(d) and 26.77(b) are implemented, as applicable.
§ 26.37
Protection of information.
(a) Each licensee or other entity who is subject to this subpart who collects personal information about an individual for the purpose of complying with this part, shall establish, use, and maintain a system of files and procedures that protects the individual's privacy.
(b) Licensees and other entities shall obtain a signed consent that authorizes the disclosure of the personal information collected and maintained under this part before disclosing the personal information, except for disclosures to the following individuals:
(1) The subject individual or his or her representative, when the individual has designated the representative in writing for specified FFD matters;
(2) Assigned MROs and MRO staff;
(3) NRC representatives;
(4) Appropriate law enforcement officials under court order;
(5) A licensee's or other entity's representatives who have a need to have access to the information to perform their assigned duties under the FFD program, including determinations of fitness, FFD program audits, or some human resources functions;
(6) The presiding officer in a judicial or administrative proceeding that is initiated by the subject individual;
(7) Persons deciding matters under review in § 26.39; and
(8) Other persons pursuant to court order.
(c) Personal information that is collected under this subpart must be disclosed to other licensees and entities, including C/Vs, or their authorized representatives, who are legitimately seeking the information for authorization decisions as required by this part and who have obtained a signed release from the subject individual.
(d) Upon receipt of a written request by the subject individual or his or her designated representative, the FFD program, including but not limited to, the collection site, HHS-certified laboratory, substance abuse expert (SAE), or MRO, possessing such records shall promptly provide copies of all FFD records pertaining to the individual, including, but not limited to, records pertaining to a determination that the individual has violated the FFD policy, drug and alcohol test results, MRO reviews, determinations of fitness, and management actions pertaining to the subject individual. The licensee or other entity shall obtain records related to the results of any relevant laboratory certification, review, or revocation-of-certification proceedings from the HHS-certified laboratory and
provide them to the subject individual on request.
(e) A licensee's or other entity's contracts with HHS-certified laboratories and C/Vs providing specimen collection services, and licensee testing facility procedures, must require test records to be maintained in confidence, except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(f) This section does not authorize the licensee or other entity to withhold evidence of criminal conduct from law enforcement officials.
§ 26.39
Review process for fitness-for-duty policy violations.
(a) Each licensee and other entity who is subject to this subpart shall establish procedures for the review of a determination that an individual who they employ or who has applied for authorization has violated the FFD policy. The review procedure must provide for an objective and impartial review of the facts related to the determination that the individual has violated the FFD policy.
(b) The review procedure must provide notice to the individual of the grounds for the determination that the individual has violated the FFD policy, and must provide an opportunity for the individual to respond and submit additional relevant information.
(c) The review procedure must ensure that the individual who conducts the review is not associated with the administration of the FFD program [
see
the description of FFD program personnel in § 26.4(g)]. Individuals who conduct the review may be management personnel.
(d) If the review finds in favor of the individual, the licensee or other entity shall update the relevant records to reflect the outcome of the review and delete or correct all information the review found to be inaccurate.
(e) When a C/V is administering an FFD program on which licensees and other entities rely, and the C/V determines that its employee, subcontractor, or applicant has violated its FFD policy, the C/V shall ensure that the review procedure required in this section is provided to the individual. Licensees and other entities who rely on a C/V's FFD program need not provide the review procedure required in this section to a C/V's employee, subcontractor, or applicant when the C/V is administering its own FFD program and the FFD policy violation was determined under the C/V's program.
[75 FR 73941, Nov. 30, 2010]
§ 26.41
Audits and corrective action.
(a)
General.
Each licensee and other entity who is subject to this subpart is responsible for the continuing effectiveness of the FFD program, including FFD program elements that are provided by C/Vs, the FFD programs of any C/Vs that are accepted by the licensee or other entity, any FFD program services that are provided to the C/V by a subcontractor, and the programs of the HHS-certified laboratories on whom the licensee or other entity and its C/Vs rely. Each licensee and other entity shall ensure that these programs are audited and that corrective actions are taken to resolve any problems identified.
(b)
FFD program.
Each licensee and other entity who is subject to this subpart shall ensure that the entire FFD program is audited as needed, but no less frequently than nominally every 24 months. Licensees and other entities are responsible for determining the appropriate frequency, scope, and depth of additional auditing activities within the nominal 24-month period based on the review of FFD program performance, including, but not limited to, the frequency, nature, and severity of discovered problems, testing errors, personnel or procedural changes, and previous audit findings.
(c)
C/Vs and HHS-certified laboratories.
(1) FFD services that are provided to a licensee or other entity by C/V personnel who are off site or are not under the direct daily supervision or observation of the licensee's or other entity's personnel and HHS-certified laboratories must be audited on a nominal 12-month frequency.
(2) Audits of HHS-certified laboratories that are conducted for licensees and other entities who are subject to this subpart need not duplicate areas inspected in the most recent HHS certification inspection. However, the licensee and other entity shall review the HHS certification inspection
records and reports to identify any areas in which the licensee or other entity uses services that the HHS certification inspection did not address. The licensee or other entity shall ensure that any such areas are audited on a nominal 12-month frequency. Licensees and other entities need not audit organizations and professionals who may provide an FFD program service to the licensee or other entity, but who are not routinely involved in providing services to a licensee's or other entity's FFD program, as specified in § 26.4(i)(1).
(d)
Contracts.
(1) The contracts of licensees and other entities with C/Vs and HHS-certified laboratories must reserve the right to audit the C/V, the C/V's subcontractors providing FFD program services, and the HHS-certified laboratories at any time, including at unannounced times, as well as to review all information and documentation that is reasonably relevant to the audits.
(2) Licensees' and other entities' contracts with C/Vs and HHS-certified laboratories must also permit the licensee or other entity to obtain copies of and take away any documents, including reviews and inspections pertaining to a laboratory's certification by HHS, and any other data that may be needed to assure that the C/V, its subcontractors, or the HHS-certified laboratory are performing their functions properly and that staff and procedures meet applicable requirements. In a contract with a licensee or other entity who is subject to this subpart, an HHS-certified laboratory may reasonably limit the use and dissemination of any documents copied or taken away by the licensee's or other entity's auditors in order to ensure the protection of proprietary information and donors' privacy.
(3) In addition, before awarding a contract, the licensee or other entity shall ensure completion of pre-award inspections and/or audits of the procedural aspects of the HHS-certified laboratory's drug-testing operations, except as provided in paragraph (g)(5) of this section.
(e)
Conduct of audits.
Audits must focus on the effectiveness of the FFD program or program element(s), as appropriate, and must be conducted by individuals who are qualified in the subject(s) being audited. The individuals performing the audit of the FFD program or program element(s) shall be independent from both the subject FFD program's management and from personnel who are directly responsible for implementing the FFD program.
(f)
Audit results.
The result of the audits, along with any recommendations, must be documented and reported to senior corporate and site management. Each audit report must identify conditions that are adverse to the proper performance of the FFD program, the cause of the condition(s), and recommended corrective actions. The licensee or other entity shall review the audit findings and take corrective actions, including re-auditing of the deficient areas where indicated, to preclude, within reason, repetition of the condition. The resolution of the audit findings and corrective actions must be documented.
(g)
Sharing of audits.
Licensees and other entities may jointly conduct audits, or may accept audits of C/Vs and HHS-certified laboratories that were conducted by other licensees and entities who are subject to this subpart, if the audit addresses the services obtained from the C/V or HHS-certified laboratory by each of the sharing licensees and other entities.
(1) Licensees and other entities shall review audit records and reports to identify any areas that were not covered by the shared or accepted audit.
(2) Licensees and other entities shall ensure that FFD program elements and services on which the licensee or entity relies are audited, if the program elements and services were not addressed in the shared audit.
(3) Sharing licensees and other entities need not re-audit the same C/V or HHS-certified laboratory for the same period of time.
(4) Each sharing licensee and other entity shall maintain a copy of the shared audit and HHS certification inspection records and reports, including findings, recommendations, and corrective actions.
(5) If an HHS-certified laboratory loses its certification, in whole or in
part, a licensee or other entity is permitted to immediately use another HHS-certified laboratory that has been audited within the previous 12 months by another NRC licensee or entity who is subject to this subpart. Within 3 months after the change, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that an audit is completed of any areas that have not been audited by another licensee or entity who is subject to this subpart within the past 12 months.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 38327, Aug. 3, 2009]

# Subpart C—Granting and Maintaining Authorization
§ 26.51
Applicability.
The requirements in this subpart apply to the licensees and other entities identified in § 26.3(a), (b), and, as applicable, (c) for the categories of individuals in § 26.4(a) through (d), and, at the licensee's or other entity's discretion, in § 26.4(g) and, if necessary, § 26.4(j). The requirements in this subpart also apply to the licensees and other entities specified in § 26.3(c), as applicable, for the categories of individuals in § 26.4(e). At the discretion of a licensee or other entity in § 26.3(c), the requirements of this subpart also may be applied to the categories of individuals identified in § 26.4(f). In addition, the requirements in this subpart apply to the entities in § 26.3(d) to the extent that a licensee or other entity relies on the C/V to meet the requirements of this subpart. Certain requirements in this subpart also apply to the individuals specified in § 26.4(h).
§ 26.53
General provisions.
(a) In order to grant authorization to an individual, a licensee or other entity shall ensure that the requirements in this subpart have been met for either initial authorization, authorization update, authorization reinstatement, or authorization with potentially disqualifying FFD information, as applicable.
(b) For individuals who have previously held authorization under this part but whose authorization has since been favorably terminated, the licensee or other entity shall implement the requirements for either initial authorization, authorization update, or authorization reinstatement, based on the total number of days that the individual's authorization is interrupted, to include the day after the individual's last period of authorization was terminated and the intervening days until the day on which the licensee or other entity grants authorization to the individual. If potentially disqualifying FFD information is disclosed or discovered about an individual, licensees and other entities shall implement the applicable requirements in § 26.69 in order to grant or maintain an individual's authorization.
(c) The licensee or other entity shall ensure that an individual has met the applicable FFD training requirements in §§ 26.29 and 26.203(c) before granting authorization to the individual.
(d) Licensees and other entities who are seeking to grant authorization to an individual who is maintaining authorization under another FFD program that is implemented by a licensee or entity who is subject to this subpart may rely on the transferring FFD program to satisfy the requirements of this subpart. The individual may maintain his or her authorization if he or she continues to be subject to either the receiving FFD program or the transferring FFD program, or a combination of elements from both programs that collectively satisfy the applicable requirements of this part. The receiving FFD program shall ensure that the program elements to which the individual is subject under the transferring FFD program remain current.
(e) Licensees and other entities in § 26.3(a) through (c) may also rely on a C/V's FFD program or program elements when granting or maintaining the authorization of an individual who is or has been subject to the C/V's FFD program, if the C/V's program or program elements meet the applicable requirements of this part.
(1) A C/V's FFD program may grant and maintain an individual's authorization, as defined in § 26.5, under the C/V's FFD program. However, only a licensee or other entity in § 26.3(a) through (c) may grant or maintain an individual's authorization to have the
types of access or perform the duties specified in § 26.4(a) through (e) and (g), and, at the licensee's or other entity's discretion, § 26.4(f).
(2) If a C/V's FFD program denies or unfavorably terminates an individual's authorization, and the individual is performing any duties for a licensee or other entity that are specified in § 26.4(a) through (e) and (g), or, at the licensee's or other entity's discretion, § 26.4(f), then the C/V shall inform the affected licensee or other entity of the denial or unfavorable termination. The licensee or other entity shall deny or unfavorably terminate the individual's authorization to perform those duties on the day that the licensee or other entity receives the information from the C/V, or implement the applicable process in § 26.69 to maintain the individual's authorization.
(3) If an individual is maintaining authorization under a C/V's FFD program, a licensee or other entity in § 26.3(a) through (c) may grant authorization to the individual to have the types of access and perform the duties specified in § 26.4(a) through (e) and (g), and, at the licensee's or other entity's discretion, § 26.4(f), and maintain his or her authorization, if the individual continues to be subject to either the receiving FFD program or a combination of elements from the receiving FFD program and the C/V's program that collectively satisfy the applicable requirements of this part. The receiving licensee's or other entity's FFD program shall ensure that the program elements to which the individual is subject under the C/V's FFD program remain current.
(f) Licensees and other entities who are seeking to grant authorization to an individual who has been subject to an FFD program under subpart K may not rely on that program or its program elements to meet the requirements of this subpart, except if the program or program element(s) of the FFD program for construction satisfy the applicable requirements of this part.
(g) The licensees and other entities specified in § 26.3(a) and, as applicable, (c) and (d), shall identify any violation of any requirement of this part to any licensee who has relied on or intends to rely on the FFD program element that is determined to be in violation of this part.
(h) The licensees and other entities specified in § 26.3(a) and, as applicable, (c) and (d), may not initiate any actions under this subpart without the knowledge and written consent of the subject individual. The individual may withdraw his or her consent at any time. If an individual withdraws his or her consent, the licensee or other entity may not initiate any elements of the authorization process specified in this subpart that were not in progress at the time the individual withdrew his or her consent, but shall complete and document any elements that are in progress at the time consent is withdrawn. The licensee or other entity shall record the individual's application for authorization; his or her withdrawal of consent; the reason given by the individual for the withdrawal, if any; and any pertinent information gathered from the elements that were completed (e.g., the results of pre-access drug tests, information obtained from the suitable inquiry). The licensee or other entity to whom the individual has applied for authorization shall inform the individual that—
(1) Withdrawal of his or her consent will withdraw the individual's current application for authorization under the licensee's or other entity's FFD program; and
(2) Other licensees and entities will have access to information documenting the withdrawal as a result of the information sharing that is required under this part.
(i) The licensees and other entities specified in § 26.3(a) and, as applicable, (c) and(d), shall inform, in writing, any individual who is applying for authorization that the following actions related to providing and sharing the personal information required under this subpart are sufficient cause for denial or unfavorable termination of authorization:
(1) Refusal to provide written consent for the suitable inquiry;
(2) Refusal to provide or the falsification of any personal information required under this part, including, but not limited to, the failure to report
any previous denial or unfavorable termination of authorization;
(3) Refusal to provide written consent for the sharing of personal information with other licensees or other entities required under this part; and
(4) Failure to report any legal actions, as defined in § 26.5.
§ 26.55
Initial authorization.
(a) Before granting authorization to an individual who has never held authorization under this part or whose authorization has been interrupted for a period of 3 years or more and whose last period of authorization was terminated favorably, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that—
(1) A self-disclosure has been obtained and reviewed under the applicable requirements of § 26.61;
(2) A suitable inquiry has been completed under the applicable requirements of § 26.63;
(3) The individual has been subject to pre-access drug and alcohol testing under the applicable requirements of § 26.65; and
(4) The individual is subject to random drug and alcohol testing under the applicable requirements of § 26.67.
(b) If potentially disqualifying FFD information is disclosed or discovered, the licensee or other entity may not grant authorization to the individual, except under § 26.69.
§ 26.57
Authorization update.
(a) Before granting authorization to an individual whose authorization has been interrupted for more than 365 days but less than 3 years and whose last period of authorization was terminated favorably, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that—
(1) A self-disclosure has been obtained and reviewed under the applicable requirements of § 26.61;
(2) A suitable inquiry has been completed under the applicable requirements of § 26.63;
(3) The individual has been subject to pre-access drug and alcohol testing under the applicable requirements of § 26.65; and
(4) The individual is subject to random drug and alcohol testing under the applicable requirements of § 26.67.
(b) If potentially disqualifying FFD information is disclosed or discovered, the licensee or other entity may not grant authorization to the individual, except under § 26.69.
§ 26.59
Authorization reinstatement.
(a) In order to grant authorization to an individual whose authorization has been interrupted for a period of more than 30 days but no more than 365 days and whose last period of authorization was terminated favorably, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that—
(1) A self-disclosure has been obtained and reviewed under the applicable requirements of § 26.61;
(2) A suitable inquiry has been completed under the requirements of § 26.63 within 5 business days of reinstating authorization. If the suitable inquiry is not completed within 5 business days due to circumstances that are outside of the licensee's or other entity's control and the licensee or other entity is not aware of any potentially disqualifying information regarding the individual within the past 5 years, the licensee or other entity may maintain the individual's authorization for an additional 5 business days. If the suitable inquiry is not completed within 10 business days of reinstating authorization, the licensee or other entity shall administratively withdraw the individual's authorization until the suitable inquiry is completed;
(3) The individual has been subject to pre-access drug and alcohol testing under the applicable requirements of § 26.65; and
(4) The individual is subject to random drug and alcohol testing under the applicable requirements of § 26.67.
(b) If a licensee or other entity administratively withdraws an individual's authorization under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and until the suitable inquiry is completed, the licensee or other entity may not record the administrative action to withdraw authorization as an unfavorable termination and may not disclose it in response to a suitable inquiry conducted under the provisions of § 26.63, a background investigation conducted under the provisions of this chapter, or any
other inquiry or investigation. The individual may not be required to disclose the administrative action in response to requests for self-disclosure of potentially disqualifying FFD information, except if the individual's authorization was subsequently denied or terminated unfavorably by the licensee or other entity.
(c) Before granting authorization to an individual whose authorization has been interrupted for a period of no more than 30 days and whose last period of authorization was terminated favorably, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that—
(1) A self-disclosure has been obtained and reviewed under the applicable requirements of § 26.61;
(2) The individual has been subject to pre-access drug and alcohol testing under the applicable requirements of § 26.65, if the individual's authorization was interrupted for more than 5 days; and
(3) The individual is subject to random drug and alcohol testing under the applicable requirements of § 26.67.
(d) If potentially disqualifying FFD information is disclosed or discovered, the licensee or other entity may not grant authorization to the individual, except under § 26.69.
§ 26.61
Self-disclosure and employment history.
(a) Before granting authorization, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that a written self-disclosure and employment history has been obtained from the individual who is applying for authorization, except as follows:
(1) If an individual previously held authorization under this part, and the licensee or other entity has verified that the individual's last period of authorization was terminated favorably, and the individual has been subject to a behavioral observation program that includes arrest reporting, which meets the requirements of this part, throughout the period since the individual's last authorization was terminated, the granting licensee or other entity need not obtain the self-disclosure or employment history in order to grant authorization; and
(2) If the individual's last period of authorization was terminated favorably within the past 30 days, the licensee or other entity need not obtain the employment history.
(b) The written self-disclosure must—
(1) State whether the individual has—
(i) Violated a licensee's or other entity's FFD policy;
(ii) Had authorization denied or terminated unfavorably under §§ 26.35(c)(2), 26.53(i), 26.63(d), 26.65(g), 26.67(c), 26.69(f), or 26.75(b) through (e);
(iii) Used, sold, or possessed illegal drugs;
(iv) Abused legal drugs or alcohol;
(v) Subverted or attempted to subvert a drug or alcohol testing program;
(vi) Refused to take a drug or alcohol test;
(vii) Been subject to a plan for substance abuse treatment (except for self-referral); or
(viii) Had legal action or employment action, as defined in § 26.5, taken for alcohol or drug use;
(2) Address the specific type, duration, and resolution of any matter disclosed, including, but not limited to, the reason(s) for any unfavorable termination or denial of authorization; and
(3) Address the shortest of the following periods:
(i) The past 5 years;
(ii) Since the individual's eighteenth birthday; or
(iii) Since the individual's last period of authorization was terminated, if authorization was terminated favorably within the past 3 years.
(c) The individual shall provide a list of all employers, including the employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed on the day before he or she completes the employment history, if any, with dates of employment, for the shortest of the following periods:
(1) The past 3 years;
(2) Since the individual's eighteenth birthday; or
(3) Since authorization was last terminated, if authorization was terminated favorably within the past 3 years.
§ 26.63
Suitable inquiry.
(a) In order to grant authorization, licensees and other entities shall ensure that a suitable inquiry has been conducted, on a best effort basis, to verify the individual's self-disclosed information and determine whether any potentially disqualifying FFD information is available, except if all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The individual previously held authorization under this part;
(2) The licensee or other entity has verified that the individual's last period of authorization was terminated favorably; and
(3) The individual has been subject to a behavioral observation program that includes arrest reporting, which meets the requirements of this part, throughout the period of interruption.
(b) To meet the suitable inquiry requirement, licensees and other entities may rely on the information that other licensees and entities who are subject to this subpart have gathered for previous periods of authorization. Licensees and other entities may also rely on those licensees' and entities' determinations of fitness that were conducted under § 26.189, as well as their reviews and resolutions of potentially disqualifying FFD information, for previous periods of authorization.
(c) The licensee or other entity shall ensure that the suitable inquiry has been conducted, on a best effort basis, by questioning former employers, and the employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed on the day before he or she completes the employment history, if an employment history is required under § 26.61.
(1) For the claimed employment period, the suitable inquiry must ascertain the reason for termination, eligibility for rehire, and other information that could reflect on the individual's fitness to be granted authorization.
(2) If the claimed employment was military service, the licensee or other entity who is conducting the suitable inquiry shall request a characterization of service, reason for separation, and any disciplinary actions related to potentially disqualifying FFD information. If the individual's last duty station cannot provide this information, the licensee or other entity may accept a hand-carried copy of the DD 214 presented by the individual which on face value appears to be legitimate. The licensee or other entity may also accept a copy of a DD 214 provided by the custodian of military records.
(3) If a company, previous employer, or educational institution to whom the licensee or other entity has directed a request for information refuses to provide information or indicates an inability or unwillingness to provide information within 3 business days of the request, the licensee or other entity shall document this refusal, inability, or unwillingness in the licensee's or other entity's record of the investigation, and obtain a confirmation of employment or educational enrollment and attendance from at least one alternate source, with suitable inquiry questions answered to the best of the alternate source's ability. This alternate source may not have been previously used by the licensee or other entity to obtain information about the individual's character. If the licensee or other entity uses an alternate source because employer information is not forthcoming within 3 business days of the request, the licensee or other entity need not delay granting authorization to wait for any employer response, but shall evaluate and document the response if it is received.
(d) When any licensee or other entity in § 26.3(a) through (d) is legitimately seeking the information required for an authorization decision under this subpart and has obtained a signed release from the subject individual authorizing the disclosure of information, any licensee or other entity who is subject to this part shall disclose whether the subject individual's authorization was denied or terminated unfavorably as a result of a violation of an FFD policy and shall make available the information on which the denial or unfavorable termination of authorization was based, including, but not limited to, drug or alcohol test results, treatment and followup testing requirements or other results from a determination of fitness, and any other information that is relevant to an authorization decision.
(e) In conducting a suitable inquiry, a licensee or other entity may obtain
information and documents by electronic means, including, but not limited to, telephone, facsimile, or e-mail. The licensee or other entity shall make a record of the contents of the telephone call and shall retain that record, and any documents or electronic files obtained electronically, under §§ 26.711 and 26.713(a), (b), and (c), as applicable.
(f) For individuals about whom no potentially disqualifying FFD information is known (or about whom potentially disqualifying FFD information is known, but it has been resolved by a licensee or other entity who is subject to this subpart) at the time at which the suitable inquiry is initiated, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that a suitable inquiry has been conducted as follows:
(1) Initial authorization. The period of the suitable inquiry must be the past 3 years or since the individual's eighteenth birthday, whichever is shorter. For the 1-year period immediately preceding the date on which the individual applies for authorization, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that the suitable inquiry has been conducted with every employer, regardless of the length of employment. For the remaining 2-year period, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that the suitable inquiry has been conducted with the employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed the longest within each calendar month, if the individual claims employment during the given calendar month.
(2) Authorization update. The period of the suitable inquiry must be the period since authorization was terminated. For the 1-year period immediately preceding the date on which the individual applies for authorization, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that the suitable inquiry has been conducted with every employer, regardless of the length of employment. For the remaining period since authorization was terminated, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that the suitable inquiry has been conducted with the employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed the longest within each calendar month, if the individual claims employment during the given calendar month.
(3) Authorization reinstatement after an interruption of more than 30 days. The period of the suitable inquiry must be the period since authorization was terminated. The licensee or other entity shall ensure that the suitable inquiry has been conducted with the employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed the longest within the calendar month, if the individual claims employment during the given calendar month.
§ 26.65
Pre-access drug and alcohol testing.
(a)
Purpose.
This section contains pre-access testing requirements for granting authorization to an individual who either has never held authorization or whose last period of authorization was terminated favorably and about whom no potentially disqualifying FFD information has been discovered or disclosed that was not previously reviewed and resolved by a licensee or other entity under the requirements of this subpart.
(b)
Accepting tests conducted within the past 30 days.
If an individual has negative results from drug and alcohol tests that were conducted under the requirements of this part before the individual applied for authorization from the licensee or other entity, and the specimens for such testing were collected within the 30-day period preceding the day on which the licensee or other entity grants authorization to the individual, the licensee or other entity may rely on the results of those drug and alcohol tests to meet the requirements for pre-access testing in this section.
(c)
Initial authorization and authorization update.
Before granting authorization to an individual who has never held authorization or whose authorization has been interrupted for a period of more than 365 days, the licensee or other entity shall verify that the results of pre-access drug and alcohol tests, which must be performed within the 30-day period preceding the day the licensee or other entity grants authorization to the individual, are negative. The licensee or other entity need not conduct pre-access testing if—
(1) The individual previously held authorization under this part and has
been subject to a drug and alcohol testing program that includes random testing and a behavioral observation program that includes arrest reporting, which both meet the requirements of this part, from the date the individual's last authorization was terminated through the date the individual is granted authorization; or
(2) The licensee or other entity relies on negative results from drug and alcohol tests that were conducted under the requirements of this part at any time before the individual applied for authorization, and the individual has remained subject to a drug and alcohol testing program that includes random testing and a behavioral observation program that includes arrest reporting, which both meet the requirements of this part, beginning on the date the drug and alcohol testing was conducted through the date the individual is granted authorization and thereafter.
(d)
Authorization reinstatement after an interruption of more than 30 days.
(1) To reinstate authorization for an individual whose authorization has been interrupted for a period of more than 30 days but no more than 365 days, except as permitted in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the licensee or other entity shall—
(i) Verify that the individual has negative results from alcohol testing and collect a specimen for drug testing within the 30-day period preceding the day the licensee reinstates the individual's authorization; and
(ii) Verify that the drug test results are negative within 5 business days of specimen collection or administratively withdraw authorization until the drug test results are received.
(2) The licensee or other entity need not conduct pre-access testing of these individuals if—
(i) The individual previously held authorization under this part and has been subject to a drug and alcohol testing program that includes random testing and a behavioral observation program that includes arrest reporting, which both meet the requirements of this part, beginning on the date the individual's last authorization was terminated through the date the individual is granted authorization; or
(ii) The licensee or other entity relies on negative results from drug and alcohol tests that were conducted under the requirements of this part at any time before the individual applied for authorization, and the individual remains subject to a drug and alcohol testing program that includes random testing and a behavioral observation program that includes arrest reporting, which both meet the requirements of this part, beginning on the date the drug and alcohol testing was conducted through the date the individual is granted authorization.
(e)
Authorization reinstatement after an interruption of 30 or fewer days.
(1) The licensee or other entity need not conduct pre-access testing before granting authorization to an individual whose authorization has been interrupted for 5 or fewer days. In addition, the licensee or other entity need not conduct pre-access testing if the individual has been subject to a drug and alcohol testing program that includes random testing and a behavioral observation program that includes arrest reporting, which both meet the requirements of this part, from the date the individual's last authorization was terminated through the date the individual is granted authorization.
(2) In order to reinstate authorization for an individual whose authorization has been interrupted for a period of more than 5 days but not more than 30 days, except as permitted in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the licensee or other entity shall take the following actions:
(i) The licensee or other entity shall subject the individual to random selection for pre-access drug and alcohol testing at a one-time probability that is equal to or greater than the normal testing rate specified in § 26.31(d)(2)(vii) calculated for a 30-day period;
(ii) If the individual is not selected for pre-access testing under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the licensee or other entity need not perform pre-access drug and alcohol tests; or
(iii) If the individual is selected for pre-access testing under this paragraph, the licensee or other entity shall—
(A) Verify that the individual has negative results from alcohol testing
and collect a specimen for drug testing before reinstating authorization; and
(B) Verify that the drug test results are negative within 5 business days of specimen collection or administratively withdraw authorization until negative drug test results are received.
(f)
Administrative withdrawal of authorization.
If a licensee or other entity administratively withdraws an individual's authorization under paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) or (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, and until the drug test results are known, the licensee or other entity may not record the administrative action to withdraw authorization as an unfavorable termination. The individual may not be required to disclose the administrative action in response to requests for self-disclosure of potentially disqualifying FFD information, except if the individual's authorization was subsequently denied or terminated unfavorably by a licensee or entity. Immediately on receipt of negative test results, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that any matter that could link the individual to the temporary administrative action is eliminated from the donor's personnel record and other records.
(g)
Sanctions.
If an individual has confirmed positive, adulterated, or substituted test results from any drug, validity, or alcohol tests that may be required in this section, the licensee or other entity shall, at a minimum and as appropriate—
(1) Deny authorization to the individual, as required by § 26.75(b), (d), (e)(2), or (g);
(2) Terminate the individual's authorization, if it has been reinstated, under § 26.75(e)(1) or (f); or
(3) Grant authorization to the individual under § 26.69.
§ 26.67
Random drug and alcohol testing of individuals who have applied for authorization.
(a) When the licensee or other entity collects specimens from an individual for any pre-access testing that may be required under §§ 26.65 or 26.69, and thereafter, the licensee or other entity shall subject the individual to random testing under § 26.31(d)(2), except if—
(1) The licensee or other entity does not grant authorization to the individual; or
(2) The licensee or other entity relies on drug and alcohol tests that were conducted before the individual applied for authorization to meet the applicable requirements for pre-access testing. If the licensee or other entity relies on drug and alcohol tests that were conducted before the individual applied for authorization, the licensee or other entity shall subject the individual to random testing when the individual arrives at a licensee's or other entity's facility for in-processing and thereafter.
(b) If an individual is selected for one or more random tests after any applicable requirement for pre-access testing in §§ 26.65 or 26.69 has been met, the licensee or other entity may grant authorization before random testing is completed, if the individual has met all other applicable requirements for authorization.
(c) If an individual has confirmed positive, adulterated, or substituted test results from any drug, validity, or alcohol test required in this section, the licensee or other entity shall, at a minimum and as appropriate—
(1) Deny authorization to the individual, as required by § 26.75(b), (d), (e)(2), or (g);
(2) Terminate the individual's authorization, if it has been granted, as required by § 26.75(e)(1) or (f); or
(3) Grant authorization to the individual under § 26.69.
§ 26.69
Authorization with potentially disqualifying fitness-for-duty information.
(a)
Purpose.
This section defines the management actions that licensees and other entities who are subject to this subpart shall take to grant or maintain, at the licensee's or other entity's discretion, the authorization of an individual who is in the following circumstances:
(1) Potentially disqualifying FFD information within the past 5 years has been disclosed or discovered about the individual by any means, including, but not limited to, the individual's self-disclosure, the suitable inquiry,
drug and alcohol testing, the administration of any FFD program under this part, a self-report of a legal action, behavioral observation, or other sources of information, including, but not limited to, any background investigation or credit and criminal history check conducted under the requirements of this chapter; and
(2) The potentially disqualifying FFD information has not been reviewed and favorably resolved by a previous licensee or other entity under this section.
(b)
Authorization after a first confirmed positive drug or alcohol test result or a 5-year denial of authorization.
The requirements in this paragraph apply to individuals whose authorization was denied or terminated unfavorably for a first violation of an FFD policy involving a confirmed positive drug or alcohol test result and individuals whose authorization was denied for 5 years under § 26.75(c), (d), (e)(2), or (f). To grant, and subsequently maintain, the individual's authorization, the licensee or other entity shall—
(1) Obtain and review a self-disclosure and employment history from the individual that addresses the shorter period of either the past 5 years or since the individual's last period of authorization was terminated, and verify that the self-disclosure does not contain any previously undisclosed potentially disqualifying FFD information before granting authorization;
(2) Complete a suitable inquiry with every employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed during the period addressed in the employment history obtained under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, and obtain and review any records that other licensees or entities who are subject to this part may have developed related to the unfavorable termination or denial of authorization;
(3) If the individual was subject to a 5-year denial of authorization under this part, verify that he or she has abstained from substance abuse for at least the past 5 years;
(4) Ensure that an SAE has conducted a determination of fitness and concluded that the individual is fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties.
(i) If the individual's authorization was denied or terminated unfavorably for a first confirmed positive drug or alcohol test result, ensure that clinically appropriate treatment and followup testing plans have been developed by an SAE before granting authorization;
(ii) If the individual was subject to a 5-year denial of authorization, ensure that any recommendations for treatment and followup testing from an SAE's determination of fitness are initiated before granting authorization; and
(iii) Verify that the individual is in compliance with, and successfully completes, any followup testing and treatment plans.
(5) Within 10 business days before granting authorization, perform a pre-access alcohol test, collect a specimen for drug testing under direct observation, and ensure that the individual is subject to random testing thereafter. Verify that the pre-access drug and alcohol test results are negative before granting authorization.
(6) If the individual's authorization was denied or terminated unfavorably for a first confirmed positive drug or alcohol test result and a licensee or other entity grants authorization to the individual, ensure that the individual is subject to unannounced testing at least quarterly for 3 calendar years after the date the individual is granted authorization. Both random and followup tests, as defined in § 26.31(c), satisfy this requirement. Verify that the individual has negative test results from a minimum of 15 tests distributed over the 3-year period, except as follows:
(i) If the individual does not continuously hold authorization during the 3-year period, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that at least one unannounced test is conducted in any quarter during which the individual holds authorization;
(ii) If the 15 tests are not completed within the 3-year period specified in this paragraph due to periods during which the individual does not hold authorization, the followup testing program may be extended up to 5 calendar years to complete the 15 tests;
(iii) If the individual does not hold authorization during the 5-year period a sufficient number of times or for sufficient periods of time to complete the 15 tests required in this paragraph, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that an SAE conducts a determination of fitness to assess whether further followup testing is required and implement the SAE's recommendations; and
(7) Verify that any drug and alcohol tests required in this paragraph, and any other drug and alcohol tests that are conducted under this part since authorization was terminated or denied, yield results indicating no further drug abuse, as determined by the MRO after review, or alcohol abuse, as determined by the result of confirmatory alcohol testing.
(c)
Granting authorization with other potentially disqualifying FFD information.
The requirements in this paragraph apply to an individual who has applied for authorization, and about whom potentially disqualifying FFD information has been discovered or disclosed that is not a first confirmed positive drug or alcohol test result or a 5-year denial of authorization. If potentially disqualifying FFD information is obtained about an individual by any means, including, but not limited to, the individual's self-disclosure, the suitable inquiry, the administration of any FFD program under this part, a self-report of a legal action, behavioral observation, or other sources of information, including, but not limited to, any background investigation or credit and criminal history check conducted under the requirements of this chapter, before granting authorization to the individual, the licensee or other entity shall—
(1) Obtain and review a self-disclosure and employment history that addresses the shortest of the following periods:
(i) The past 5 years;
(ii) Since the individual's eighteenth birthday; or
(iii) Since the individual's last period of authorization was terminated;
(2) Complete a suitable inquiry with every employer by whom the individual claims to have been employed during the period addressed in the employment history required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the individual held authorization within the past 5 years, obtain and review any records that other licensees or entities who are subject to this part may have developed with regard to potentially disqualifying FFD information about the individual from the past 5 years;
(3) If the designated reviewing official determines that a determination of fitness is required, verify that a professional with the appropriate qualifications, as specified in § 26.189(a), has indicated that the individual is fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties;
(4) Ensure that the individual is in compliance with, or has completed, any plans for treatment and drug and alcohol testing from the determination of fitness, which may include the collection of a urine specimen under direct observation; and
(5) Verify that the results of pre-access drug and alcohol tests are negative before granting authorization, and that the individual is subject to random testing after the specimens have been collected for pre-access testing and thereafter.
(d)
Maintaining authorization with other potentially disqualifying FFD information.
If an individual is authorized when other potentially disqualifying FFD information is disclosed or discovered, in order to maintain the individual's authorization, the licensee or other entity shall—
(1) Ensure that the licensee's or other entity's designated reviewing official completes a review of the circumstances associated with the information;
(2) If the designated reviewing official concludes that a determination of fitness is required, verify that a professional with the appropriate qualifications, as specified in § 26.189(a), has indicated that the individual is fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties; and
(3) If the reviewing official determines that maintaining the individual's authorization is warranted, implement any recommendations for treatment and followup drug and alcohol testing from the determination of fitness, which may include the collection of urine specimens under direct
observation, and ensure that the individual complies with and successfully completes the treatment plans.
(e)
Accepting followup testing and treatment plans from another FFD program.
Licensees and other entities may rely on followup testing, treatment plans, and determinations of fitness that meet the requirements of § 26.189 and were conducted under the FFD program of another licensee or entity who is subject to this subpart.
(1) If an individual leaves the FFD program in which a treatment and/or followup testing plan was required under paragraphs (b), (c), or (d) of this section, the licensee or other entity who imposed the treatment and/or followup testing plan shall ensure that information documenting the treatment and/or followup testing plan is identified to any subsequent licensee or other entity who seeks to grant authorization to the individual. If the individual is granted authorization by the same or another licensee or entity, the licensee or other entity who grants authorization to the individual shall ensure that any followup testing requirements are met and that the individual complies with any treatment plan, with accountability assumed by the granting licensee or other entity. If it is impractical for the individual to comply with a treatment plan that was developed under another FFD program because of circumstances that are outside of the individual's or licensee's or other entity's control (e.g., geographical distance, closure of a treatment facility), then the granting FFD program shall ensure that an SAE develops a comparable treatment plan, with accountability for monitoring the individual's compliance with the plan assumed by the granting licensee or other entity.
(2) If the previous licensee or other entity determined that the individual successfully completed any required treatment and followup testing, and the individual's last period of authorization was terminated favorably, the receiving licensee or entity may rely on the previous determination of fitness and no further review or followup is required.
(f)
Sanctions.
If an individual has confirmed positive, adulterated, or substituted test results from any drug, validity, or alcohol test required in this section, the licensee or other entity shall, at a minimum and as appropriate—
(1) Deny authorization to the individual, as required by § 26.75(b), (d), (e)(2), or (g); or
(2) Terminate the individual's authorization, if it has been granted, as required by § 26.75(e)(1) or (f).
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 38328, Aug. 3, 2009]
§ 26.71
Maintaining authorization.
(a) Individuals may maintain authorization under the following conditions:
(1) The individual complies with the licensee's or other entity's FFD policies and procedures, as described in § 26.27, including the responsibility to report any legal actions, as defined in § 26.5;
(2) The individual remains subject to a drug and alcohol testing program that meets the requirements of § 26.31, including random testing;
(3) The individual remains subject to a behavioral observation program that meets the requirements of § 26.33; and
(4) The individual successfully completes required FFD training on the schedule specified in § 26.29(c).
(b) If an authorized individual is not subject to an FFD program that meets the requirements of this section for more than 30 continuous days, then the licensee or other entity shall terminate the individual's authorization and the individual shall meet the requirements in this subpart, as applicable, to regain authorization.

# Subpart D—Management Actions and Sanctions To Be Imposed
§ 26.73
Applicability.
The requirements in this subpart apply to the licensees and other entities identified in § 26.3(a), (b), and, as applicable, (c) for the categories of individuals specified in § 26.4(a) through (d) and (g). The requirements in this subpart also apply to the licensees and other entities specified in § 26.3(c), as applicable, for the categories of individuals in § 26.4(e). At the discretion of a licensee or other entity in § 26.3(c),
the requirements of this subpart also may be applied to the categories of individuals identified in § 26.4(f). In addition, the requirements in this subpart apply to the entities in § 26.3(d) to the extent that a licensee or other entity relies on the C/V to meet the requirements of this subpart. The regulations in this subpart also apply to the individuals specified in § 26.4(h) and (j), as appropriate.
§ 26.75
Sanctions.
(a) This section defines the minimum sanctions that licensees and other entities shall impose when an individual has violated the drug and alcohol provisions of an FFD policy. A licensee or other entity may impose more stringent sanctions, except as specified in paragraph (h) of this section.
(b) Any act or attempted act to subvert the testing process, including, but not limited to, refusing to provide a specimen and providing or attempting to provide a substituted or adulterated specimen, for any test required under § 26.31(c) must result in the immediate unfavorable termination of the individual's authorization and permanent denial of authorization thereafter.
(c) Any individual who is determined to have been involved in the sale, use, or possession of illegal drugs or the consumption of alcohol within a protected area of any nuclear power plant, within a facility that is licensed to possess or use formula quantities of SSNM, within a transporter's facility or vehicle, or while performing the duties that require the individual to be subject to this subpart shall immediately have his or her authorization unfavorably terminated and denied for a minimum of 5 years from the date of the unfavorable termination of authorization.
(d) Any individual who resigns or withdraws his or her application for authorization before authorization is terminated or denied for a first violation of the FFD policy involving a confirmed positive drug or alcohol test result shall immediately have his or her authorization denied for a minimum of 5 years from the date of termination or denial. If an individual resigns or withdraws his or her application for authorization before his or her authorization is terminated or denied for any violation of the FFD policy, the licensee or other entity shall record the resignation or withdrawal, the nature of the violation, and the minimum sanction that would have been required under this section had the individual not resigned or withdrawn his or her application for authorization.
(e) Lacking any other evidence to indicate the use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs or consumption of alcohol on site, a confirmed positive drug or alcohol test result must be presumed to be an indication of offsite drug or alcohol use in violation of the FFD policy.
(1) The first violation of the FFD policy involving a confirmed positive drug or alcohol test result must, at a minimum, result in the immediate unfavorable termination of the individual's authorization for at least 14 days from the date of the unfavorable termination.
(2) Any subsequent confirmed positive drug or alcohol test result, including during an assessment or treatment period, must result in the denial of authorization for a minimum of 5 years from the date of denial.
(f) Paragraph (e) of this section does not apply to the misuse of prescription and over-the-counter drugs, except if the MRO determines that misuse of the prescription or over-the-counter drug represents substance abuse. Sanctions for misuse of prescription and over-the-counter drugs must be sufficient to deter misuse of those substances.
(g) For individuals whose authorization was denied for 5 years under paragraphs (c), (d), (e)(2), or (f) of this section, any subsequent violation of the drug and alcohol provisions of an FFD policy must immediately result in permanent denial of authorization.
(h) A licensee or other entity may not terminate an individual's authorization and may not subject the individual to other administrative action based solely on a positive test result from any initial drug test, other than positive initial test results for marijuana or cocaine metabolites from a specimen that is reported to be valid on the basis of either validity screening or initial validity testing performed at a licensee testing facility,
unless other evidence, including information obtained under the process set forth in § 26.189, indicates that the individual is impaired or might otherwise pose a safety hazard. The licensee or other entity may not terminate an individual's authorization or subject an individual to any other administrative action under this section based on the results of validity screening or initial validity testing performed at a licensee testing facility indicating that a specimen is of questionable validity.
(i) With respect to positive initial drug test results from a licensee testing facility for marijuana and cocaine metabolites from a valid specimen, licensee testing facility personnel may inform licensee or other entity management of the positive initial drug test result and the specific drugs or metabolites identified, and licensees or other entities may administratively withdraw the donor's authorization or take lesser administrative actions against the donor, provided that the licensee or other entity complies with the following conditions:
(1) For the drug for which action will be taken, at least 85 percent of the specimens that were determined to be positive as a result of initial drug tests at the licensee testing facility during the past 12-month data reporting period submitted to the NRC under § 26.717 were subsequently reported as positive by the HHS-certified laboratory as the result of confirmatory testing;
(2) There is no loss of compensation or benefits to the donor during the period of temporary administrative action;
(3) Immediately on receipt of a negative report from the HHS-certified laboratory or MRO, any matter that could link the donor to the temporary administrative action is eliminated from the donor's personnel record and other records; and
(4) Licensees and other entities may not disclose the temporary administrative action against an individual whose initial drug test result is not subsequently confirmed by the MRO as a violation of the FFD policy in response to a suitable inquiry conducted under the provisions of § 26.63, a background investigation conducted under the provisions of this chapter, or to any other inquiry or investigation.
(i) To ensure that no records are retained, access to the system of files and records must be provided to personnel who are conducting reviews, inquiries into allegations, or audits under the provisions of § 26.41, and to NRC inspectors.
(ii) The licensee or other entity shall provide the donor with a written statement that the records specified in §§ 26.713 and 26.715 have not been retained with respect to the temporary administrative action and shall inform the donor in writing that the temporary administrative action that was taken will not be disclosed and need not be disclosed by the individual in response to requests for self-disclosure of potentially disqualifying FFD information.
§ 26.77
Management actions regarding possible impairment.
(a) This section defines management actions that licensees and other entities who are subject to this subpart must take when an individual who is subject to this subpart shows indications that he or she may not be fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties.
(b) If an individual appears to be impaired or the individual's fitness is questionable, except as permitted under §§ 26.27(c)(3), 26.207, and 26.209, the licensee or other entity shall take immediate action to prevent the individual from performing the duties that require him or her to be subject to this subpart.
(1) If an observed behavior or physical condition creates a reasonable suspicion of possible substance abuse, the licensee or other entity shall perform drug and alcohol testing. The results must be negative before the individual returns to performing the duties that require the individual to be subject to this subpart. However, if the physical condition is the smell of alcohol with no other behavioral or physical indications of impairment, then only an alcohol test is required and the results must be negative before the individual returns to performing his or her duties.
(2) If a licensee or C/V who is subject to subpart I of this part is certain that
the observed behavior or physical condition is the result solely of fatigue, the licensee or C/V shall ensure that a fatigue assessment is conducted under § 26.211. If the results of the fatigue assessment confirm that the observed behavior or physical condition is the result solely of fatigue, the licensee or C/V need not perform drug and alcohol tests or implement the determination of fitness process otherwise required by § 26.189.
(3) For other indications of possible impairment that do not create a reasonable suspicion of substance abuse (or fatigue, in the case of licensees and C/Vs who are subject to subpart I of this part), the licensee or other entity may permit the individual to return to performing his or her duties only after the impairing or questionable conditions are resolved and a determination of fitness indicates that the individual is fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties.
(c) If a licensee or other entity has a reasonable belief that an NRC employee or NRC contractor may be under the influence of any substance, or is otherwise unfit for duty, the licensee or other entity may not deny access but shall escort the individual. In any such instance, the licensee or other entity shall immediately notify the appropriate Regional Administrator by telephone, followed by written notification (e.g., e-mail or fax) to document the oral notification. If the Regional Administrator cannot be reached, the licensee or other entity shall notify the NRC Operations Center.

# Subpart E—Collecting Specimens for Testing
§ 26.81
Purpose and applicability.
This subpart contains requirements for collecting specimens for drug testing and conducting alcohol tests by or on behalf of the licensees and other entities in § 26.3(a) through (d) for the categories of individuals specified in § 26.4(a) through (d) and (g). At the discretion of a licensee or other entity in § 26.3(c), specimen collections and alcohol tests must be conducted either under this subpart for the individuals specified in § 26.4(e) and (f) or the licensee or other entity may rely on specimen collections and alcohol tests conducted under the requirements of 49 CFR Part 40 for the individuals specified in § 26.4(e) and (f). The requirements of this subpart do not apply to specimen collections and alcohol tests that are conducted under the requirements of 49 CFR Part 40, as permitted in this paragraph and under §§ 26.4(j) and 26.31(b)(2) and Subpart K.
§ 26.83
Specimens to be collected.
Except as permitted under § 26.31(d)(5), licensees and other entities who are subject to this subpart shall—
(a) Collect either breath or oral fluids for initial tests for alcohol. Breath must be collected for confirmatory tests for alcohol; and
(b) Collect only urine specimens for both initial and confirmatory tests for drugs, unless the licensee or other entity establishes through its policy and procedures that an oral fluid specimen can be collected and tested for any of the observed specimen collection conditions under § 26.115(a)(1) through (3) and (5). For each observed collection condition under § 26.115(a)(1) through (3) and (5), the licensee or other entity shall always collect and test the same specimen type.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71456, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.85
Collector qualifications and responsibilities.
(a)
Collector qualifications.
Each collector shall be knowledgeable of the requirements of this part and the FFD policy and procedures of the licensee or other entity for whom collections are performed, and shall keep current on any changes to the collection procedures for each specimen the individual is qualified to collect under this part. Each collector shall receive qualification training that meets the requirements of this paragraph and demonstrate proficiency in applying the requirements of this paragraph before serving as a collector. At a minimum, qualification training must provide instruction on the following subjects:
(1) All steps necessary to complete a collection correctly and the proper completion and transmission of the Federal CCF;
(2) Methods to address “problem” collections, including, but not limited to:
(i) Inability to provide a specimen (
e.g.,
“shy bladder” for a urine specimen, “shy lung” for a breath specimen, dry mouth for an oral fluid specimen); and
(ii) Attempts to tamper with a specimen;
(3) Operation of the particular specimen collection or alcohol testing device(s) (
e.g.,
alcohol screening device (ASD), EBT, oral fluid) to be used, consistent with the most recent version of the manufacturers' instructions;
(4) How to correct problems in collections; and
(5) The collector's responsibility for maintaining the integrity of the specimen collection process, carefully ensuring the modesty and privacy of the donor, and avoiding any conduct or remarks that might be construed as accusatorial or otherwise offensive or inappropriate, and the specimen transfer process, if applicable.
(b)
Alternative collectors.
A medical professional, technologist, or technician may serve as a collector without meeting the collector qualification requirements in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable, only if all of the following conditions are met:
(1) A collector who meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section cannot reasonably be made available at the time the collection must occur;
(2) The individual is not employed by the licensee's or other entity's FFD program and his or her normal workplace is not at the licensee's or other entity's facility;
(3) The individual does not routinely provide FFD program services to the licensee or other entity;
(4) The individual is licensed or otherwise approved to practice in the jurisdiction in which the collection occurs; and
(5) The individual is provided with detailed, clearly-illustrated, written instructions for collecting specimens under this subpart and follows those instructions.
(c)
Personnel available to testify at proceedings.
The licensee or other entity shall ensure that qualified collection site personnel, when required, are available to testify in an administrative or disciplinary proceeding against an individual when that proceeding is based on positive drug or alcohol test results or adulterated or substituted test results from specimens collected by or under contract to the licensee or other entity.
(d)
Files.
Collection site personnel files must include each individual's resume of training and experience; certification or license, if any; references; job descriptions; records of performance evaluations and advancement; incident reports, if any; results of tests to establish employee competency for the position he or she holds, including, but not limited to, certification that collectors are proficient in administering alcohol tests consistent with the most recent manufacturer's instructions for the instruments and devices used; and appropriate data to support determinations of honesty and integrity conducted under § 26.31(b).
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71456, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.87
Collection sites.
(a) Each FFD program must have one or more designated collection sites that have all necessary personnel, materials, equipment, facilities, and supervision to collect specimens for drug testing and to perform alcohol testing. Each collection site must provide for the collection, security, temporary storage, and shipping or transportation of specimens to a drug testing laboratory; the testing of specimens for alcohol; the security of specimen collection and testing devices; and test results. A properly equipped mobile facility that meets the requirements of this section is an acceptable collection site.
(b) Visual privacy must be provided to the donor and collector when viewing alcohol test results and during the collection of an oral fluid specimen for drug testing. The donor must be provided with individual privacy while submitting a urine specimen, except if a directly observed urine specimen collection is required. Unauthorized personnel may not be present for the specimen collection.
(c) Contracts for collection site services must permit representatives of the
NRC, licensee, or other entity to conduct unannounced inspections and audits and to obtain all information and documentation that is reasonably relevant to the inspections and audits.
(d) Licensees and other entities shall take the following measures to prevent unauthorized access to the collection site that could compromise the integrity of the collection process or the specimens.
(1) Unauthorized personnel may not be permitted in any part of the designated collection site where specimens are collected or stored;
(2) A designated collection site must be secure. If a collection site is dedicated solely to specimen collection, it must be secure at all times. Methods of assuring security may include, but are not limited to, physical measures to control access, such as locked doors, alarms, or visual monitoring of the collection site when it is not occupied; and
(3) If a collection site cannot be dedicated solely to collecting specimens, the portion of the facility that is used for specimen collection must be secured and, during the time period during which a specimen is being collected, a sign must be posted to indicate that access is permitted only for authorized personnel.
(e) The following steps must be taken to deter the dilution and adulteration of urine specimens at the collection site:
(1) Agents that color any source of standing water in the stall or room in which the donor will provide a specimen, including, but not limited to, the toilet bowl or tank, must be placed in the source of standing water, so that the reservoirs of water are neither yellow nor colorless;
(2) There must be no other source of water (e.g., no shower or sink) in the enclosure where urination occurs, or the source of water must be rendered unusable; and
(3) Chemicals or products that could be used to contaminate or otherwise alter the specimen must be removed from the collection site or secured. The collector shall inspect the enclosure in which urination will occur before each collection to ensure that no materials are available that could be used to subvert the testing process.
(f) In the exceptional event that a designated collection site is inaccessible and there is an immediate requirement to collect a specimen for drug testing, including, but not limited to, an event investigation, then the licensee or other entity may use a public rest room, onsite rest room, or hospital examining room according to the following procedures:
(1) The facility must be secured by visual inspection to ensure that no unauthorized persons are present, and that undetected access (e.g., through a rear door not in the view of the collector) is impossible. Security during the collection may be maintained by restricting access to collection materials and specimens. In the case of a public rest room, a sign must be posted or an individual assigned to ensure that no unauthorized personnel are present during the entire collection procedure to avoid embarrassment of the donor and distraction of the collector.
(2) If practical when a urine specimen is to be collected, a water coloring agent that meets the requirements of § 26.87(e)(1) must be placed in the toilet bowl to be used by the donor and in any other accessible source of standing water, including, but not limited to, the toilet tank. The collector shall instruct the donor not to flush the toilet.
(3) A collector of the same gender as the donor shall accompany the donor into the area that will be used for a urine specimen collection , but remain outside of the stall, if it is a multi-stalled rest room, or outside of the door to the room, if it is a single rest room, in which the donor will provide the specimen. If a collector of the same gender is not available, the collector shall select a same-gender person to accompany the donor. This person shall be instructed on the collection procedures specified in this subpart and his or her identity must be documented on the Federal CCF.
(4) Once the collector has possession of the specimen, if the specimen is urine, the collector shall inspect the toilet bowl and area to ensure that there is no evidence of a subversion attempt and shall then flush the toilet,
and for any specimen collected for drug testing, the collector shall instruct the donor to participate with the collector in completing the chain of custody procedures.
(5) If it is impractical to maintain continuous physical security of a collection site from the time a specimen for drug testing is presented until the sealed container is transferred for shipment, the specimen must remain under the direct control of an individual who is authorized by the licensee or other entity until the specimen is prepared for transfer, storage, or shipping, as required by § 26.117. The authorized individual shall be instructed on his or her responsibilities for maintaining custody and control of the specimen and his or her custody of the specimen must be documented on the Federal CCF .
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71457, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.89
Preparing to collect specimens for testing.
(a) When an individual has been notified of a requirement for testing and does not appear at the collection site within the time period specified by FFD program procedures, the collector shall inform FFD program management that the individual has not reported for testing. FFD program management shall ensure that the necessary steps are taken to determine whether the individual's undue tardiness or failure to appear for testing constitutes a violation of the licensee's or other entity's FFD policy. If FFD program management determines that the undue tardiness or failure to report for testing represents an attempt to subvert the testing process, the licensee or other entity shall impose on the individual the sanctions in § 26.75(b). If FFD program management determines that the undue tardiness or failure to report does not represent a subversion attempt, the licensee or other entity may not impose sanctions but shall ensure that the individual is tested at the earliest reasonable and practical opportunity after locating the individual.
(b) Donors shall provide acceptable identification before testing.
(1) Acceptable identification includes photo-identification issued by a licensee or other entity who is subject to this part, or by the Federal, State, or local government. Licensees and other entities may not accept faxes or photocopies of identification.
(2) If the donor cannot produce acceptable identification before any testing that is required under this part other than pre-access testing, the collector shall proceed with the test and immediately inform FFD program management that the donor did not present acceptable identification. When so informed, FFD program management shall contact the individual's supervisor to verify in-person the individual's identity, or, if the supervisor is not available, take other steps to establish the individual's identity and determine whether the lack of identification was an attempt to subvert the testing process. The donor may not leave the collection site except under supervision until his or her identity has been established.
(3) If the donor is scheduled for pre-access testing and cannot produce acceptable identification, the collector may not proceed with the collection, and shall inform FFD program management that the individual did not present acceptable identification. When so informed, FFD program management will take the necessary steps to determine whether the lack of identification was an attempt to subvert the testing process.
(4) The collector shall explain the testing procedure to the donor, show the donor the form(s) to be used, and ask the donor to sign a consent-to-testing form. The donor may not be required to list prescription medications or over-the-counter preparations that he or she has recently used.
(c) The collector shall inform the donor that, if the donor refuses to cooperate in the specimen collection process (including, but not limited to, behaving in a confrontational manner that disrupts the testing process; admitting to the collector that he or she adulterated, diluted, or substituted the specimen; is found to have a device, such as a prosthetic appliance, the purpose of which is to interfere with providing an actual urine specimen; or
leaving the collection site before all of the collection procedures are completed), it will be considered a refusal to test, and sanctions for subverting the testing process will be imposed under § 26.75(b). If the donor refuses to cooperate in the collection procedures, the collector shall inform FFD program management to obtain guidance on the actions to be taken.
(d) In order to promote the security of specimens, avoid distraction of the collector, and ensure against any confusion in the identification of specimens, a collector shall conduct only one collection procedure at any given time, except as described in § 26.109(b)(1). For the collection of specimen(s) for drug testing, the collection procedure is complete when the specimen container has been sealed with a tamper-evident seal, the seal has been dated and initialed, and the Federal CCF has been completed or when a refusal to test has been determined.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71457, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.91
Acceptable devices for conducting initial and confirmatory tests for alcohol and methods of use.
(a)
Acceptable alcohol screening devices.
Alcohol screening devices (ASDs), including devices that test specimens of oral fluids or breath, must be approved by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and listed in the most current version of NHTSA's Conforming Products List (CPL) for such devices. An ASD that is listed in the NHTSA CPL may be used only for initial tests for alcohol, and may not be used for confirmatory tests.
(b)
Acceptable evidential breath testing devices.
Evidential breath testing devices listed in the NHTSA CPL for evidential devices that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section must be used to conduct confirmatory alcohol tests, and may be used to conduct initial alcohol tests. Note that, among the devices listed in the CPL for EBTs, only those devices listed without an asterisk (*) may be used for confirmatory alcohol testing under this subpart.
(c)
EBT capabilities.
An EBT that is listed in the NHTSA CPL for evidential devices that has the following capabilities may be used for conducting initial alcohol tests and must be used for confirmatory alcohol tests under this subpart:
(1) Provides a printed result of each breath test;
(2) Assigns a unique number to each completed test, which the collector and donor can read before each test and which is printed on each copy of the test result;
(3) Prints, on each copy of the test result, the manufacturer's name for the device, its serial number, and the time of the test;
(4) Distinguishes alcohol from acetone at the 0.02 alcohol concentration level;
(5) Tests an air blank; and
(6) Permits performance of an external calibration check.
(d)
Quality assurance and quality control of ASDs.
(1) Licensees and other entities shall implement the most recent version of the quality assurance plan submitted to NHTSA for any ASD that is used for initial alcohol testing.
(2) Licensees and other entities may not use an ASD that fails the specified quality control checks or that has passed its expiration date.
(3) For ASDs that test breath specimens and meet EBT requirements for confirmatory testing, licensees and other entities shall also follow the device use and care requirements specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Quality assurance and quality control of EBTs.
(1) Licensees and other entities shall implement the most recent version of the manufacturer's instructions for the use and care of the EBT consistently with the quality assurance plan submitted to NHTSA for the EBT, including performing external calibration checks no less frequently than at the intervals specified in the manufacturer's instructions.
(2) When conducting external calibration checks, licensees and other entities shall use only calibration devices appearing on NHTSA's CPL for “Calibrating Units for Breath Alcohol Tests.”
(3) If an EBT fails an external check of calibration, the licensee or other entity shall take the EBT out of service. The EBT may not be used again for alcohol testing under this subpart until it is repaired and passes an external calibration check.
(4) In order to ensure that confirmed positive alcohol test results are derived from an EBT that is calibrated, the licensee or other entity shall implement one of the following procedures:
(i) If an EBT fails any external check of calibration, cancel every confirmed positive test result that was obtained using the EBT from any tests that were conducted after the EBT passed the last external calibration check; or
(ii) After every confirmed positive test result obtained from using an EBT, conduct an external check of calibration of the EBT in the presence of the donor. If the EBT fails the external calibration check, cancel the donor's test result and conduct another initial and confirmatory test on a different EBT as soon as practicable.
(5) Inspection, maintenance, and calibration of the EBT must be performed by its manufacturer or a maintenance representative or other individual who is certified either by the manufacturer or by a State health agency or other appropriate State agency.
§ 26.93
Preparing for alcohol testing.
(a) Immediately before collecting a specimen for alcohol testing, the collector shall—
(1) Ask the donor whether he or she, in the past 15 minutes, has had anything to eat or drink, belched, or put anything into his or her mouth (including, but not limited to, a cigarette, breath mint, or chewing gum), and instruct the donor that he or she should avoid these activities during the collection process;
(2) If the donor states that he or she has not engaged in the activities listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, alcohol testing may proceed;
(3) If the donor states that he or she has engaged in any of the activities listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, inform the donor that a 15-minute waiting period is necessary to prevent an accumulation of mouth alcohol from leading to an artificially high reading;
(4) Explain that it is to the donor's benefit to avoid the activities listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section during the collection process;
(5) Explain that the initial and confirmatory tests, if a confirmatory test is necessary, will be conducted at the end of the waiting period, even if the donor has not followed the instructions; and
(6) Document that the instructions were communicated to the donor.
(b) With the exception of the 15-minute waiting period, if necessary, the collector shall begin for-cause alcohol and/or drug testing as soon as reasonably practical after the decision is made that for-cause testing is required. When for-cause alcohol testing is required, alcohol testing may not be delayed by collecting a specimen for drug testing.
§ 26.95
Conducting an initial test for alcohol using a breath specimen.
(a) The collector shall perform the initial breath test as soon as practical after the donor indicates that he or she has not engaged in the activities listed in § 26.93(a)(1) or after the 15-minute waiting period has elapsed, if required.
(b) To perform the initial test, the collector shall—
(1) Select, or allow the donor to select, an individually wrapped or sealed mouthpiece from the testing materials;
(2) Open the individually wrapped or sealed mouthpiece in view of the donor and insert it into the device as required by the manufacturer's instructions;
(3) Instruct the donor to blow steadily and forcefully into the mouthpiece for at least 6 seconds or until the device indicates that an adequate amount of breath has been obtained;
(4) Show the donor the displayed or printed test result; and
(5) Ensure that the test result record can be associated with the donor and is maintained secure.
(c) Unless problems in administering the breath test require an additional collection, only one breath specimen may be collected for the initial test. If an additional collection(s) is required, the collector shall rely on the test result from the first successful collection
to determine the need for confirmatory testing.
§ 26.97
Collecting oral fluid specimens for alcohol and drug testing.
(a) To perform the initial specimen collection, the collector shall—
(1) Check the expiration date on the device and show it to the donor (the device may not be used after its expiration date);
(2) Open an individually wrapped or sealed package containing the device in the presence of the donor;
(3) Offer the donor the choice of using the device or having the collector use it. If the donor chooses to use it, instruct the donor to insert the device into his or her mouth and use it in the manner described by the device's manufacturer;
(4) If the donor chooses not to use the device, or in all cases when a new specimen collection is necessary because the device failed to activate, insert the device into the donor's mouth, and gather oral fluids in the manner described by the device's manufacturer (wear single-use examination or similar gloves while doing so and change them following each specimen collection); and
(5) When the device is removed from the donor's mouth, follow the manufacturer's instructions regarding necessary next steps to ensure that the device has activated.
(b) If the steps in paragraph (a) of this section could not be completed successfully (e.g., the device breaks, the device is dropped on the floor, the device fails to activate), the collector shall—
(1) Discard the device and conduct a new specimen collection using a new device. The new device must be one that has been under the collector's control before the specimen collection;
(2) Record the reason for the new specimen collection;
(3) Offer the donor the choice of using the device or having the collector use it unless the donor, in the opinion of the collector, was responsible for the new specimen collection needing to be conducted. If the collector concludes that the donor was responsible, then the collector shall use the device to conduct the specimen collection; and
(4) Repeat the procedures in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) If the second collection attempt in paragraph (b) of this section could not be completed, the collector shall—
(1) End the collection of oral fluids and document the reason(s) that the collection could not be completed; and
(2) Immediately conduct another specimen collection (
i.e.,
initial test using an EBT for alcohol, or urine specimen collection for drug testing).
(d) For alcohol testing of oral fluids, the collector shall read the result displayed on the device no sooner than the device's manufacturer instructs. In all cases, the collector shall read the result within 15 minutes of the test. The collector shall then show the device and its reading to the donor, record the result, and record that an ASD was used.
(e) Devices, swabs, gloves, and other materials used in collecting oral fluids may not be re-used.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71457, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.99
Determining the need for a confirmatory test for alcohol.
(a) If the initial test result is less than 0.02 percent BAC, the collector shall declare the test result as negative.
(b) If the initial test result is 0.02 percent BAC or higher, the collector shall ensure that the time at which the test was concluded (
i.e.
, the time at which the test result was known) is recorded and inform the donor that a confirmatory test for alcohol is required.
§ 26.101
Conducting a confirmatory test for alcohol.
(a) The confirmatory test must begin as soon as possible, but no more than 30 minutes after the conclusion of the initial test.
(b) To complete the confirmatory test, the collector shall—
(1) In the presence of the donor, conduct an air blank on the EBT before beginning the confirmatory test and show the result to the donor;
(2) Verify that the reading is 0.00. If the reading is 0.00, the test may proceed. If not, then conduct another air blank;
(3) If the reading on the second air blank is 0.00, the test may proceed. If the reading is greater than 0.00, take the EBT out of service and proceed with the test using another EBT. If an EBT is taken out of service for this reason, the EBT may not be used for further testing until it is found to be within tolerance limits on an external check of calibration;
(4) Open an individually wrapped or sealed mouthpiece in view of the donor and insert it into the device as required by the manufacturer's instructions;
(5) Read the unique test number displayed on the EBT, and ensure that the donor reads the same number;
(6) Instruct the donor to blow steadily and forcefully into the mouthpiece for at least 6 seconds or until the device indicates that an adequate amount of breath has been obtained; and
(7) Show the donor the result displayed on or printed by the EBT, record the result, and document the time at which the confirmatory test result was known.
(c) Unless there are problems in administering the breath test that require an additional collection, the collector shall collect only one breath specimen for the confirmatory test. If an additional collection(s) is required because of problems in administering the breath test, the collector shall rely on the breath specimen from the first successful collection to determine the confirmatory test result. Collection procedures may not require collectors to calculate an average or otherwise combine results from two or more breath specimens to determine the confirmatory test result.
(d) If an EBT that meets the requirements of § 26.91(b) and (c) was used for the initial alcohol test, the same EBT may be used for confirmatory testing.
§ 26.103
Determining a confirmed positive test result for alcohol.
(a) A confirmed positive test result for alcohol must be declared under any of the following conditions:
(1) When the result of the confirmatory test for alcohol is 0.04 percent BAC or higher;
(2) When the result of the confirmatory test for alcohol is 0.03 percent BAC or higher and the donor had been in a work status for at least 1 hour at the time the initial test was concluded (including any breaks for rest, lunch, dental/doctor appointments, etc.); or
(3) When the result of the confirmatory test for alcohol is 0.02 percent BAC or higher and the donor had been in a work status for at least 2 hours at the time the initial test was concluded (including any breaks for rest, lunch, dental/doctor appointments, etc.).
(b) When the result of the confirmatory test for alcohol is equal to or greater than 0.01 percent BAC but less than 0.02 percent BAC and the donor has been in a work status for 3 hours or more at the time the initial test was concluded (including any breaks for rest, lunch, dental/doctor appointments, etc.), the collector shall declare the test result as negative and inform FFD program management. The licensee or other entity shall prohibit the donor from performing any duties that require the individual to be subject to this subpart and may not return the individual to performing such duties until a determination of fitness indicates that the donor is fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties.
§ 26.105
Preparing for the collection of a specimen for drug testing.
(a) The collector shall ask the donor to remove any unnecessary outer garments, such as a coat or jacket, which might conceal items or substances that the donor could use to tamper with or adulterate his or her specimen. The collector shall ensure that all personal belongings such as a purse or briefcase remain with the outer garments outside of the room or stall in which the specimen is collected. The donor may retain his or her wallet.
(b) The collector shall also ask the donor to empty his or her pockets and display the items in them to enable the collector to identify items that the donor could use to adulterate or substitute his or her urine specimen. The donor shall permit the collector to make this observation. If the donor refuses to show the collector the items in his or her pockets, this is considered a refusal to test. If an item is found that appears to have been brought to the
collection site with the intent to adulterate or substitute the specimen, the collector shall contact the MRO or FFD program manager to determine whether a directly observed collection is required. If the item appears to have been inadvertently brought to the collection site, the collector shall secure the item and continue with the normal collection procedure. If the collector identifies nothing that the donor could use to adulterate or substitute the specimen, the donor may place the items back into his or her pockets.
(c) The collector shall instruct the donor to wash and dry his or her hands before providing a specimen.
(d) After washing his or her hands, the donor shall remain in the presence of the collector and may not have access to any water fountain, faucet, soap dispenser, cleaning agent, or other materials that he or she could use to adulterate the specimen.
(e) The collector may select, or allow the donor to select, an individually wrapped or sealed urine specimen collection container from the collection kit materials or an oral fluid specimen collection device. Either the collector or the donor, with both present, shall unwrap or break the seal of the urine specimen collection container. With the exception of the collection container, the donor may not take anything from the collection kit into the room or stall used for urination.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71457, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.107
Collecting a urine specimen.
(a) The collector shall direct the donor to go into the room or stall used for urination, provide a specimen of the quantity that has been predetermined by the licensee or other entity, as defined in § 26.109(a), not flush the toilet, and return with the specimen as soon as the donor has completed the void.
(1) The donor shall provide his or her urine specimen in the privacy of a room, stall, or otherwise partitioned area (private area) that allows for individual privacy, except if a directly observed collection is required, as described in § 26.115;
(2) Except in the case of a directly observed collection, no one may go with the donor into the room or stall in which the donor will provide his or her specimen; and
(3) The collector may set a reasonable time limit for voiding.
(b)(1) The collector shall pay careful attention to the donor during the entire collection process, except as provided in § 26.109(b)(1), to observe any conduct that indicates an attempt to subvert the testing process (
e.g.,
tampering with a specimen; having a substitute urine specimen in plain view; attempting to bring an adulterant, urine substitute, heating element, and/or temperature measurement device into the room, stall, or private area used for urination). If any such conduct is detected, the collector shall document a description of the conduct on the Federal CCF or through another documentation method consistent with the collection procedures of the licensee or other entity, and contact FFD program management to determine whether a directly observed collection is required, as described in § 26.115.
(2) If a hydration monitor is used to observe a donor during the § 26.109(b)(1) hydration process, this individual shall immediately inform the collector of any donor conduct that may indicate an attempt to subvert the testing process (
e.g.,
donor leaves the collection site, donor refuses to follow instructions).
(c) After the donor has provided the urine specimen and submitted it to the collector, the donor shall be permitted to wash his or her hands. The collector shall inspect the toilet bowl and room or stall in which the donor voided to identify any evidence of a subversion attempt, and then flush the toilet.
(d) If a refusal to test is determined at any point during the specimen collection process, the collector shall do the following:
(1) Inform the donor that a refusal to test has been determined;
(2) Terminate the collection process;
(3) Document a description of the refusal to test on the Federal CCF or through another documentation method consistent with the collection procedures of the licensee or other entity;
(4) Discard any urine specimen(s) provided by the donor, unless the specimen was collected for a post-event test under § 26.31(c)(3); and
(5) Immediately inform the FFD program manager.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71457, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.109
Urine specimen quantity.
(a) Licensees and other entities who are subject to this subpart shall establish a predetermined quantity of urine that donors are requested to provide when submitting a specimen. At a minimum, the predetermined quantity must include 30 milliliters (mL) to ensure that a sufficient quantity of urine is available for initial and confirmatory validity and drug tests at an HHS-certified laboratory, and for retesting of an aliquot of the specimen if requested by the donor under § 26.165(b). The licensee's or other entity's predetermined quantity may include more than 30 mL, if the testing program follows split specimen procedures, tests for additional drugs, or performs initial testing at a licensee testing facility. Where collected specimens are to be split under the provisions of this subpart, the predetermined quantity must include an additional 15 mL.
(b) If the quantity of urine in the first specimen provided by the donor is less than 30 mL, the collector shall take the following steps:
(1) The collector shall encourage the donor to drink a reasonable amount of liquid (normally, 8 ounces of water every 30 minutes, but not to exceed a maximum of 40 ounces over 3 hours) until the donor provides a specimen of at least 30 mL. Alternatively, as specified in the licensee's or other entity's FFD program procedures, the collector may assign responsibility for monitoring a donor during the hydration process to another collector who meets the requirements in § 26.85(a) or to a hydration monitor. If another collector or hydration monitor is used, the collector:
(i) Shall explain the hydration process and acceptable donor behavior to the hydration monitor;
(ii) Shall record the name of the other collector or hydration monitor on the Federal CCF; and
(iii) May perform other collections while the donor is in the hydration process;
(2) The collector shall provide the donor with a separate collection container for each successive specimen. Once the donor provides a specimen of at least 30 mL, the collection must end. If the specimen quantity is at least 30 mL but is less than the licensee's or other entity's predetermined quantity, the licensee or other entity may not require the donor to provide additional specimens and may not impose any sanctions on the donor. If the donor provides a specimen of 30 mL or more, but the specimen quantity is less than the predetermined quantity, the collector shall forward the specimen to the HHS-certified laboratory for testing. If the donor provides a specimen of at least the predetermined quantity, the specimen may be processed under the FFD program's usual testing procedures;
(3) If the donor has not provided a specimen of at least 30 mL within 3 hours of the first unsuccessful attempt to provide a specimen of the predetermined quantity, the collector shall discontinue the collection and notify the FFD program manager or MRO to initiate the “shy bladder” procedures in § 26.119; and
(4) Neither the donor nor the collector may combine specimens. The collector shall discard specimens of less than 30 mL, except if there is reason to believe that the donor has diluted, adulterated, substituted, or otherwise tampered with the specimen, based on the collector's observations of the donor's behavior during the collection process or the specimen's characteristics, as specified in § 26.111. If the collector has a reason to believe that a specimen that is 15 mL or more, but less than 30 mL, has been diluted, adulterated, substituted, or altered, the collector shall prepare the suspect specimen for shipping to the HHS-certified laboratory and contact FFD program management to determine whether a directly observed collection is required, as described in § 26.115.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71458, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.111
Checking the acceptability of the urine specimen.
(a) Immediately after the donor provides the urine specimen to the collector, including specimens of less than 30 mL but equal to or greater than 15 mL, the collector shall measure the temperature of the specimen. The temperature-measuring device used must accurately reflect the temperature of the specimen and not contaminate the specimen. The time from urination to temperature measurement may not exceed 4 minutes. If the temperature of a urine specimen is outside the range of 90 °F to 100 °F (32 °C to 38 °C), that is a reason to believe the donor may have altered (
e.g.,
adulterated or diluted) or substituted the specimen.
(b) Immediately after the donor provides a urine specimen, including specimens of less than 30 mL but equal to or greater than 15 mL, the collector shall also inspect the specimen to determine its color and clarity and look for any signs of contaminants or adulteration. The collector shall note any unusual findings on the Federal CCF or through another documentation method consistent with the collection procedures of the licensee or other entity.
(c) If there is reason to believe that the donor may have attempted to dilute, substitute, or adulterate the specimen based on specimen temperature or other observations made during the collection, the collector shall contact the FFD program manager, who may consult with the MRO, to determine whether the donor has attempted to subvert the testing process or whether other circumstances may explain the observations. The FFD program manager or MRO may require the donor to provide a second specimen as soon as possible under direct observation.In addition, the collector shall inform the donor that he or she may volunteer to submit a second specimen under direct observation to counter the reason to believe the donor may have altered (
e.g.,
adulterated or diluted) or substituted the specimen.
(d) Any specimen of 15 mL or more that the collector suspects has been diluted, substituted, or adulterated, and any specimen of 15 mL or more that has been collected under direct observation under paragraph (c) of this section, must be sent directly to the HHS-certified laboratory for initial and, if required, confirmatory testing, and may not be subject to initial testing at a licensee testing facility.
(e) As much of the suspect specimen as possible must be preserved, except under the conditions described in § 26.107(d)(4).
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71458, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.113
Splitting the urine specimen.
(a) Licensees and other entities may, but are not required to, use split-specimen methods of collection.
(b) If the urine specimen is to be split into two specimen bottles, hereinafter referred to as Bottle A and Bottle B, the collector shall take the following steps:
(1) The collector shall instruct the donor to urinate into a specimen container;
(2) The collector, in the presence of the donor and after determining specimen temperature as described in § 26.111(a), shall split the urine specimen. The collector shall pour 30 mL of urine into Bottle A and a minimum of 15 mL of urine into Bottle B. If the quantity of urine available for Bottle B is less than 15 mL, the collector shall pour the remaining urine into Bottle B and forward the specimens in Bottles A and B to the HHS-certified laboratory for drug and validity testing; and
(3) The collector shall ask the donor to observe the splitting of the urine specimen and to maintain visual contact with both specimen bottles until the Federal CCF(s) for both specimens are completed, the specimens are sealed, and the specimens and form(s) are prepared for secure storage or shipping.
(c) Licensees and other entities may use aliquots of the specimen collected for validity screening and initial validity and drug testing at the licensee testing facility, as permitted under § 26.31(d)(3)(ii), or to test for additional drugs, as permitted under § 26.31(d)(1)(i)(A), but only if sufficient urine is available for this testing after the specimen has been split into Bottle A and Bottle B.
§ 26.115
Collecting a urine specimen under direct observation.
(a) Procedures for collecting urine specimens must provide for the donor's privacy unless directed by this subpart or the MRO or FFD program manager determines that a directly observed collection is warranted. The following circumstances constitute the exclusive grounds for performing a directly observed collection:
(1) The donor has presented, at this or a previous collection, a urine specimen that the HHS-certified laboratory reported as being substituted, adulterated, or invalid to the MRO and the MRO reported to the licensee or other entity that there is no adequate medical explanation for the result;
(2) The donor has presented, at this collection, a urine specimen that falls outside the required temperature range;
(3) The collector, or the hydration monitor if one is used as permitted in § 26.109(b)(1), observes conduct by the donor indicating an attempt to subvert the testing process;
(4) A directly observed collection is required under § 26.69; or
(5) The donor requests a retest and either Bottle B or the single specimen is not available due to circumstances outside of the donor's control, as described in § 26.165(f)(2).
(b) Before collecting a urine specimen under direct observation, the collector shall obtain the agreement of the FFD program manager or MRO to obtain a urine specimen under direct observation. After obtaining agreement, the collector shall ensure that a specimen is collected under direct observation as soon as reasonably practicable.
(c) The collector shall explain to the donor the reason for direct observation of the collection under paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) The collector shall complete a new Federal CCF for the specimen that is obtained from the directly observed collection. The collector shall record that the collection was observed and the reason(s) for the directly observed collection on the form.
(e) The collector shall ensure that the observer is the same gender as the donor. A person of the opposite gender may not act as the observer under any conditions. The observer may be a different person from the collector and need not be a qualified collector. If the observer is not a qualified collector, the collector shall, in the presence of the donor, instruct the observer on the collection procedures in paragraph (f) of this section before proceeding with the directly observed collection.
(f) The individual who observes the collection shall follow these procedures:
(1) The observer shall instruct the donor to adjust his or her clothing to ensure that the area of the donor's body between the waist and knees is exposed;
(2) The observer shall watch the donor urinate into the collection container. Specifically, the observer shall watch the urine go from the donor's body into the collection container. A reflective mirror may be used to assist in observing the provision of the specimen only if the physical configuration of the room, stall, or private area used for urination is not sufficient to meet this direct observation requirement; the use of a video camera to assist in the observation process is not permitted;
(3) If the observer is not the collector, the observer may not touch or handle the collection container but shall maintain visual contact with the specimen until the donor hands the collection container to the collector; and
(4) If the observer is not the collector, the collector shall record the observer's name on the Federal CCF.
(g) If a donor declines to allow a directly observed collection that is required or permitted under this section, the donor's refusal constitutes an act to subvert the testing process, and the collector shall follow the procedures in § 26.107(d).
(h) If a collector learns that a directly observed collection should have been performed but was not, the collector shall inform the FFD program manager, or his or her designee. The FFD program manager or designee shall ensure that a directly observed collection is immediately performed.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71458, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.117
Preparing drug testing specimens for storage and shipping.
(a) Once the collector is presented with the specimen from the donor, both the donor and the collector shall keep the donor's specimen(s) in view at all times before the specimen(s) are sealed and labeled. If any specimen or aliquot is transferred to another container, the collector shall ask the donor to observe the transfer and sealing of the container with a tamper-evident seal.
(b) Both the collector and the donor shall be present (at the same time) during the procedures outlined in this section.
(c) The collector shall place an identification label securely on each container. The label must contain the date, the donor's specimen number, and any other identifying information provided or required by the FFD program. The collector shall also apply a tamper-evident seal on each container if it is separate from the label. The specimen bottle must be securely sealed to prevent undetected tampering.
(d) The donor shall initial the identification label(s) on the specimen bottle(s) for the purpose of certifying that the specimen was collected from him or her. The collector shall also ask the donor to read and sign a statement on the Federal CCF certifying that the specimen(s) identified as having been collected from the donor is, in fact, the specimen(s) that he or she provided.
(e) The collector shall complete the Federal CCF(s) and shall certify proper completion of the collection.
(f) The specimens and Federal CCFs must be packaged for transfer to the HHS-certified laboratory or to the licensee testing facility.If the specimens are not immediately prepared for transfer, they must be appropriately safeguarded during temporary storage.
(g) While any part of the chain of custody procedures is being performed, the specimens and custody documents must be under the control of the involved collector, except as provided in § 26.109(b)(1)(ii) for the Federal CCF. The collector may not leave the collection site during the interval between presentation of the specimen by the donor and securing of the specimens with identifying labels bearing the donor's specimen identification numbers and seals initialed by the donor. If the involved collector momentarily leaves his or her workstation, the sealed specimens and Federal CCFs must be secured or taken with him or her. If the collector is leaving for an extended period of time, the specimens must be packaged for transfer to the HHS-certified laboratory or the licensee testing facility and secured before the collector leaves the collection site.
(h) The specimen(s) sealed in a shipping container must be immediately transferred, appropriately safeguarded during temporary storage, or kept under the personal control of an authorized individual until transferred. These minimum procedures apply to the transfer of specimens to licensee testing facilities from collection sites (except where co-located) as well as to the shipping of specimens to HHS-certified laboratories. As an option, licensees and other entities may ship several specimens via courier in a locked or sealed shipping container.
(i) Collection site personnel shall ensure that a Federal CCF is packaged with its associated specimen bottle. Unless a collection site and a licensee testing facility are co-located, the sealed and labeled specimen bottles, with their associated Federal CCFs that are being transferred from the collection site to the drug testing laboratory must be placed in a second, tamper-evident shipping container. The second container must be designed to minimize the possibility of damage to the specimen during shipment (e.g., specimen boxes, shipping bags, padded mailers, or bulk insulated shipping containers with that capability), so that the contents of the shipping containers are no longer accessible without breaking a tamper-evident seal.
(j) Collection site personnel shall arrange to transfer the collected specimens to the HHS-certified laboratory or the licensee testing facility. Licensees and other entities shall take appropriate and prudent actions to minimize false negative results from specimen degradation. Urine specimens that have not shipped to the HHS-certified laboratory or the licensee testing facility within 24 hours of collection and any urine specimen that is suspected of having been substituted, adulterated,
or tampered with in any way must be maintained cooled to not more than 6 °C (42.8 °F) until they are shipped to the HHS-certified laboratory. Oral fluid specimens shall be stored under the conditions specified by the oral fluid specimen collection device manufacturer. Specimens must be shipped from the collection site to the HHS-certified laboratory or the licensee testing facility as soon as reasonably practical but, except under unusual circumstances, the time between specimen shipment and receipt of the specimen at the licensee testing facility or HHS-certified laboratory should not exceed 2 business days.
(k) Couriers, express carriers, and postal service personnel do not have direct access to the Federal CCFs or the specimen bottles. Therefore, there is no requirement that such personnel document chain of custody on the Federal CCFs during transit. Custody accountability of the shipping containers during shipment must be maintained by a tracking system provided by the courier, express carrier, or postal service.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71458, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.119
Determining “shy” bladder.
(a) When a donor has not provided a specimen of at least 30 mL within the 3 hours permitted for urine collection, FFD program personnel shall direct the donor to obtain, within 5 business days, an evaluation from a licensed physician who is acceptable to the MRO and has expertise in the medical issues raised by the donor's failure to provide a sufficient specimen. The MRO may perform this evaluation if the MRO has the appropriate expertise.
(b) If another physician will perform the evaluation, the MRO shall provide the other physician with the following information and instructions:
(1) The donor was required to take a drug test, but was unable to provide a sufficient quantity of urine to complete the test;
(2) The potential consequences of refusing to take the required drug test; and
(3) The physician must agree to follow the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.
(c) The physician who conducts this evaluation shall make one of the following determinations:
(1) A medical condition has, or with a high degree of probability could have, precluded the donor from providing a sufficient amount of urine; or
(2) There is an inadequate basis for determining that a medical condition has, or with a high degree of probability could have, precluded the donor from providing a sufficient quantity of urine.
(d) For purposes of this section, a medical condition includes an ascertainable physiological condition (e.g., a urinary system dysfunction) or a medically documented pre-existing psychological disorder, but does not include unsupported assertions of “situational anxiety” or dehydration.
(e) The physician who conducts this evaluation shall provide a written statement of his or her determination and the basis for it to the MRO. This statement may not include detailed information on the donor's medical condition beyond what is necessary to explain the determination.
(f) If the physician who conducts this evaluation determines that the donor's medical condition is a serious and permanent or long-term disability that is highly likely to prevent the donor from providing a sufficient amount of urine for a very long or indefinite period of time, the physician shall set forth this determination and the reasons for it in the written statement to the MRO.
(g) The MRO shall seriously consider and assess the information provided by the physician in deciding whether the donor has a medical condition that has, or with a high degree of probability could have, precluded the donor from providing a sufficient amount of urine, as follows:
(1) If the MRO concurs with the physician's determination, then the MRO shall declare that the donor has not violated the FFD policy and the licensee or other entity shall take no further action with respect to the donor;
(2) If the MRO determines that the medical condition has not, or with a high degree of probability could not have, precluded the donor from providing a sufficient amount of urine,
then the MRO shall declare that there has been a refusal to test; or
(3) If the MRO determines that the medical condition is highly likely to prevent the donor from providing a sufficient amount of urine for a very long or indefinite period of time, then the MRO shall authorize an alternative evaluation process, tailored to the individual case, for drug testing.

# Subpart F—Licensee Testing Facilities
§ 26.121
Purpose.
This subpart contains requirements for facilities that are operated by licensees and other entities who are subject to this part to perform initial tests of urine specimens for validity, drugs, and drug metabolites.
§ 26.123
Testing facility capabilities.
Each licensee testing facility shall have the capability, at the same premises, to perform either validity screening tests or initial validity tests or both, and initial drug tests for each drug and drug metabolite for which testing is conducted.
§ 26.125
Licensee testing facility personnel.
(a) Each licensee testing facility shall have one or more individuals who are responsible for day-to-day operations and supervision of the testing technicians. The designated individual(s) shall have at least a bachelor's degree in the chemical or biological sciences, medical technology, or equivalent. He or she shall also have training and experience in the theory and practice of the procedures used in the licensee testing facility, and a thorough understanding of quality control practices and procedures, the review, interpretation, and reporting of test results, and proper remedial actions to be taken in response to detection of abnormal test or quality control results.
(b) Other technicians or non-technical staff shall have the necessary training and skills for their assigned tasks. Technicians who perform urine specimen testing shall have documented proficiency in operating the testing instruments and devices used at the licensee testing facility.
(c) Licensee testing facility personnel files must include each individual's resume of training and experience; certification or license, if any; references; job descriptions; records of performance evaluations and advancement; incident reports, if any; results of tests that establish employee competency for the position he or she holds, including, but not limited to, certification that personnel are proficient in conducting testing in accordance with manufacturer's most recent instructions for the instruments and devices used and tests for color blindness; and appropriate data to support determinations of honesty and integrity required by this part.
§ 26.127
Procedures.
(a) Licensee testing facilities shall develop, implement, and maintain clear and well-documented procedures for accession, shipment, and testing of urine specimens.
(b) Written chain of custody procedures must describe the methods to be used to maintain control and accountability of specimens from receipt through completion of testing and reporting of results, during storage and shipping to the HHS-certified laboratory, and continuing until final disposition of the specimens.
(c) Licensee testing facilities shall develop, implement, and maintain written standard operating procedures for each assay performed for drug and specimen validity testing. If a licensee testing facility performs validity screening tests, the licensee testing facility shall develop, implement, and maintain written standard operating procedures for each test. The procedures must include, but are not limited to, detailed descriptions of—
(1) The principles of each test;
(2) Preparation of reagents, standards, and controls;
(3) Calibration procedures;
(4) Derivation of results;
(5) Linearity of the methods;
(6) Sensitivity of the methods;
(7) Cutoff values;
(8) Mechanisms for reporting results;
(9) Controls;
(10) Criteria for unacceptable specimens and results;
(11) Reagents and expiration dates; and
(12) References.
(d) Licensee testing facilities shall develop, implement, and maintain written procedures for instrument and test setup and normal operation, including the following:
(1) A schedule for checking critical operating characteristics for all instruments and validity screening tests;
(2) Tolerance limits for acceptable function checks; and
(3) Instructions for major troubleshooting and repair.
(e) Licensee testing facilities shall develop, implement, and maintain written procedures for remedial actions to be taken when systems, and instrumented and non-instrumented tests are out of acceptable limits or errors are detected. Each facility shall maintain documentation that these procedures are followed and that all necessary corrective actions are taken. In addition, each facility shall have systems in place to verify all stages of testing and reporting and to document the verification.
§ 26.129
Assuring specimen security, chain of custody, and preservation.
(a) Each licensee testing facility must be secure at all times. Each licensee or other entity shall have sufficient security measures in place to control access to the licensee testing facility and to ensure that no unauthorized personnel handle specimens or gain access to the licensee testing facility's processes or areas where records are stored. Access to these secured areas must be limited to specifically authorized individuals whose authorization is documented. All authorized visitors and maintenance and service personnel shall be escorted at all times while in the licensee testing facility.
(b) When specimens are received, licensee testing facility personnel shall inspect each package for evidence of possible tampering and shall compare information on the specimen containers within each package to the information on the accompanying Federal CCFs. Licensee testing facility personnel shall attempt to resolve any discrepancies identified in the information on specimen bottles or on the accompanying Federal CCFs. When resolving any discrepancies, licensee testing facility personnel shall obtain a memorandum for the record from the specimen collector involved in the discrepancy to document correction of the discrepancy. This memorandum must accompany the specimen(s) and Federal CCFs to the HHS-certified laboratory if the specimen(s) must be transferred.
(1) Indications of tampering with specimens in transit from the collection site, or at a licensee testing facility, must be reported to senior licensee or other entity management as soon as practical and no later than 8 hours after the indications are identified. In response to a report, licensee or other entity management personnel shall initiate an investigation to determine whether tampering has occurred.
(i) If the investigation determines that tampering has occurred, licensee or other entity management shall ensure that corrective actions are taken.
(ii) If there is reason to believe that the integrity or identity of a specimen is in question (as a result of tampering or discrepancies between the information on the specimen bottle and on the accompanying Federal CCFs that cannot be resolved), the licensee testing facility shall reject the specimen for testing. The licensee or other entity shall ensure that another collection occurs as soon as reasonably practical, except if a split specimen collection was performed, either the Bottle A or Bottle B seal remains intact, and the intact specimen contains at least 15 mL of urine. In this instance, the licensee testing facility shall forward the intact specimen for testing to the HHS-certified laboratory and may not conduct any testing at the licensee testing facility.
(2) The following are exclusive grounds requiring the MRO to cancel the testing of a donor's urine specimen and report a cancelled test result to the licensee or other entity:
(i) The Federal CCF does not contain information to identify the specimen collector and the collection site cannot
provide conclusive evidence of the collector's identity;
(ii) The identification numbers on the specimen bottle seal(s) do not match the identification numbers on the Federal CCF;
(iii) A specimen bottle seal is broken or shows evidence of tampering and an intact specimen, as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, does not exist;
(iv) The specimen appears to have leaked out of its sealed bottle and there is less than 15 mL remaining, and an intact specimen, as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, does not exist; or
(v) As required under § 26.165(f)(2).
(c) The licensee testing facility shall retain specimen containers within the testing facility's accession area until all analyses have been completed. Testing facility personnel shall use aliquots of the specimen and licensee testing facility chain of custody forms, or other appropriate methods of tracking aliquot custody and control, when conducting validity screening and initial validity and drug tests. The original specimen bottles and the original Federal CCFs must remain in secure storage. Licensee testing facility personnel may discard specimens and aliquots as soon as practical after validity screening or initial validity tests have demonstrated that the specimen appears valid and initial test results for drugs and drug metabolites are negative.
(d) The licensee testing facility's procedure for tracking custody and control of specimens and aliquots must protect the identity of the donor, and provide documentation of the testing process and transfers of custody of the specimen and aliquots. Each time a specimen or aliquot is handled or transferred within the licensee testing facility, testing facility personnel shall document the date and purpose and every individual in the chain of custody must be identified.
(e) Urine specimens identified as positive or of questionable validity at a licensee testing facility must be shipped to an HHS-certified laboratory for testing as soon as reasonably practical.
(f) Licensee testing facility personnel shall take appropriate and prudent actions to minimize false negative results from specimen degradation. If validity screening or initial validity testing indicate that the specimen is of questionable validity, or initial drug test results are positive, or if a specimen has not been tested within 24 hours of receipt at the licensee testing facility, then the facility shall maintain the specimen cooled to not more than 6 °C (42.8 °F) until it is forwarded to the HHS-certified laboratory for further testing, if required. Split specimens in Bottle B that are associated with positive specimens or specimens of questionable validity in Bottle A must also be maintained cooled (as previously specified) until test results from the HHS-certified laboratory are known to be negative for Bottle A; until the MRO informs the licensee testing facility that Bottle B must be forwarded to an HHS-certified laboratory for testing; or until the specimen is moved to long-term, frozen storage, under § 26.135(c).
(g) Licensee testing facility personnel shall ensure that the original Federal CCF is packaged with its associated urine specimen bottle. Sealed and labeled specimen bottles, with their associated Federal CCFs, being transferred from the licensee testing facility to the HHS-certified laboratory must be placed in a second, tamper-evident shipping container designed to minimize the possibility of damage to the specimen during shipment (e.g., specimen boxes, padded mailers, or bulk insulated shipping containers with that capability) so that the contents of the shipping containers are no longer accessible without breaking a tamper-evident seal.
(h) Couriers, express carriers, and postal service personnel do not have direct access to the Federal CCFs or the specimen bottles. Therefore, such personnel are not required to document chain of custody on the Federal CCFs during transit. Custody accountability of the shipping containers during shipment must be maintained by a tracking system provided by the courier, express carrier, or postal service.
[78 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71459, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.131
Cutoff levels for validity screening and initial validity tests.
(a) Each validity test result from the licensee testing facility must be based on performing either a validity screening test or an initial validity test, or both, on one or more aliquots of a urine specimen. The licensee testing facility shall forward any specimen that yields a questionable validity screening or initial validity test result to the HHS-certified laboratory for further testing. Licensee testing facilities need not perform validity screening tests before conducting initial validity tests of a specimen.
(b) At a minimum, the licensee testing facility shall test each urine specimen for creatinine, pH, and one or more oxidizing adulterants. Licensees and other entities may not specify more stringent cutoff levels for validity screening and initial validity tests than those specified in this section. If tests or observations indicate one or more of the following from either a validity screening test or an initial validity test, the licensee testing facility shall forward the specimen to the HHS-certified laboratory for additional testing:
(1) Creatinine is less than 20 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL);
(2) The pH of the specimen is either less than 4.5 or equal to or greater than 9, using either a colorimetric pH test with a dynamic range of 2 to 12 or pH meter that is capable of measuring pH to one decimal place (for initial validity tests), or colorimetric pH tests, dipsticks, and pH paper (for pH validity screening tests) that have a narrow dynamic range;
(3) Nitrite or other oxidant concentration is equal to or greater than 200 micrograms (mcg) per mL or equal to or greater than 200 mcg/mL nitrite-equivalents using either a nitrite colorimetric test or a general oxidant colorimetric test;
(4) The possible presence of an oxidizing adulterant (e.g., chromium (VI), pyridine (pyridinium chlorochromate)) is determined using either a general oxidant colorimetric test (with a cutoff equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL chromium (VI)-equivalents) or a chromium (VI) colorimetric test (chromium (VI) concentration equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL);
(5) The possible presence of halogen (e.g., bleach, iodine, fluoride) is determined using a general oxidant colorimetric test (with a cutoff equal to or greater than 200 mcg/mL nitrite-equivalents or equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL chromium (VI)-equivalents), a halogen colorimetric test (halogen concentration equal to or greater than the limit of detection (LOD)), or the odor of the specimen;
(6) The possible presence of glutaraldehyde is determined using either an aldehyde test (aldehyde present) or the characteristic immunoassay response is observed on one or more drug immunoassay tests;
(7) The possible presence of a surfactant is determined by using a surfactant colorimetric test with a cutoff equal to or greater than 100 mcg/mL dodecylbenzene sulfonate-equivalent or a foam/shake test; or
(8) The specimen shows evidence of adulterants, including, but not limited to, the following:
(i) Abnormal physical characteristics;
(ii) Reactions or responses characteristic of an adulterant obtained during the validity screening or initial test; or
(iii) A possible unidentified interfering substance or adulterant, demonstrated by interference occurring on the immunoassay drug tests on two separate aliquots (
i.e.
, valid immunoassay drug test results cannot be obtained).
§ 26.133
Cutoff levels for drugs and drug metabolites.
Subject to the provisions of § 26.31(d)(3)(iii), licensees and other entities may specify more stringent cutoff levels for drugs and drug metabolites than those in Table 1 to § 26.133 and, in such cases, may report initial test results for only the more stringent cutoff levels. Otherwise, the following cutoff levels must be used for initial testing of urine specimens to determine whether they are negative or positive for the indicated drugs and drug metabolites:
Table 1 to § 26.133—Urine, Initial Test Cutoff Levels for Drugs and Drug Metabolites
Drugs or drug metabolites
Cutoff level
[nanograms
(ng)/mL]
Marijuana metabolites
50
Cocaine metabolites
150
Opioids:
Codeine/Morphine
1
2,000
Hydrocodone/Hydromorphone
300
Oxycodone/Oxymorphone
100
6-acetylmorphine (6-AM)
10
Phencyclidine (PCP)
25
Amphetamines:
2
AMP/MAMP
3
500
MDMA
4
/MDA
5
500
1
Morphine is the target analyte for codeine/morphine testing.
2
Either a single initial test kit or multiple initial test kits may be used provided the single test kit detects each target analyte independently at the specified cutoff.
3
Methamphetamine (MAMP) is the target analyte for amphetamine (AMP)/MAMP testing.
4
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine.
5
Methylenedioxyamphetamine.
[87 FR 71459, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.135
Split specimens.
(a) If the FFD program follows split-specimen procedures, as described in § 26.113, the licensee testing facility shall analyze aliquots of the specimen for the licensee's or other entity's purposes as described in this part. Except as provided in paragraph (b) in this section, the licensee testing facility shall store Bottles A and B of the specimen in a secure manner until the facility has finished testing. If the initial validity and drug test results are negative and the specimen in Bottle A will not be forwarded to the HHS-certified laboratory, the licensee testing facility may discard both Bottle A and Bottle B. If any test results are positive or indicate that the specimen is of questionable validity, the licensee testing facility shall forward Bottle A to the HHS-certified laboratory for testing and shall retain Bottle B in secure storage, under the requirements of § 26.159(i), or may forward it to the HHS-certified laboratory for storage.
(b) If the MRO confirms any positive, adulterated, or substituted result for a specimen in Bottle A, based on the results of confirmatory testing at an HHS-certified laboratory, and the licensee testing facility has elected to retain Bottle B of the specimen, and the donor requests testing of the specimen in Bottle B, as permitted under § 26.165(b), the MRO shall ensure that Bottle B is forwarded to an HHS-certified laboratory other than the laboratory that tested the specimen in Bottle A, under the procedures specified in § 26.165(b).
(c) If the MRO confirms that the specimen in Bottle A is positive, adulterated, substituted, or invalid and the donor does not request that Bottle B be tested, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that Bottle B is maintained in long-term frozen storage (−20 °C (−4 °F) or less) for a minimum of 1 year. If a licensee testing facility elects to retain the specimen in Bottle B, rather than forwarding it to the HHS-certified laboratory with Bottle A, the licensee testing facility shall ensure proper storage conditions in the event of a prolonged power failure. After the end of 1 year, the licensee or other entity may discard Bottle B, with the exception that the licensee testing facility shall retain any specimens under legal challenge, or as requested by the NRC, until the specimen is no longer needed.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 66602, Nov. 10, 2014]
§ 26.137
Quality assurance and quality control.
(a)
Quality assurance program.
Each licensee testing facility shall have a quality assurance program that encompasses all aspects of the testing process including, but not limited to, specimen acquisition, chain of custody, security and reporting of results, validity screening (if validity screening tests are performed), initial validity and drug testing, and validation of analytical procedures. Quality assurance procedures must be designed, implemented, and reviewed to monitor the conduct of each step of the process of validity testing and testing for drugs and drug metabolites.
(b)
Performance testing and quality control requirements for validity screening tests.
(1) Licensee testing facilities may rely on validity screening tests to determine the need for initial tests of specimen validity either at the licensee
testing facility or HHS-certified laboratory. Licensees and other entities shall ensure that the HHS-certified laboratory is capable of conducting confirmatory testing for any adulterant for which the licensee testing facility conducts validity screening tests. Licensee testing facilities shall use only validity screening tests that meet the following criteria:
(i) Either the test, by lot number, has been placed on the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) list of point-of-collection tests that are approved for use in the Federal Workplace Drug Testing Program; or
(ii) Before using the test, the licensee or other entity has ensured that the validity screening test, by lot number, effectively identifies specimens of questionable validity by meeting the following performance testing and quality control requirements:
(A) The creatinine validity screening test must use a 20 mg/dL cutoff concentration;
(B) A pH specimen validity screening test must be able to determine if pH is less than 4.5 and if pH is equal to or greater than 9; and
(C) An oxidant validity screening test must be able to determine if an oxidant concentration is equal to or greater than a 200 mcg/mL nitrite-equivalent cutoff, and/or a chromium screening test must be able to determine concentrations equal to or greater than a 50 mcg/mL chromium(VI)-equivalent cutoff, and/or a halogen screening test must be able to determine the halogen concentration is equal to or greater than the LOD. Licensees and other entities who use validity screening tests for additional adulterants shall establish performance testing requirements to challenge the licensee testing facility and the HHS-certified laboratory for the additional validity screening test(s);
(D) The manufacturer has conducted validation studies to document the validity screening test's performance characteristics around each applicable cutoff specified in this section, using performance testing samples that have been formulated to challenge the validity screening test around the applicable cutoffs. These validation studies must demonstrate the validity screening test's ability to differentiate valid samples from those of questionable validity and the performance of the validity screening test(s) around the applicable cutoffs specified in this section; and
(E) The licensee testing facility shall submit three consecutive sets of performance testing samples to the manufacturer, using performance testing samples that have been formulated to challenge the validity screening test around the applicable cutoffs specified in this paragraph and whose formulation levels have been confirmed by an HHS-certified laboratory. For example, one set of performance testing samples used to challenge a creatinine validity screening test must include at least six samples formulated at different concentrations ranging from 0 to 20 mg/dL. A set of performance testing samples used to challenge a pH validity screening test must include at least six samples formulated with different pH levels that are equal to or less than 4.5, and six samples formulated with different pH levels that are equal to or greater than 9. And, a set of performance testing samples used to challenge an oxidizing adulterant validity screening test must include at least six samples to challenge each validity screening test used. The performance testing samples for oxidizing adulterants must contain nitrite and other oxidizing adulterant concentrations in a range of less than or equal to a 200 mcg/mL nitrite-equivalent cutoff to a 500 mcg/mL nitrite-equivalent cutoff; chromium samples formulated in a range less than or equal to a 50 mcg/mL chromium(VI)-equivalent cutoff to 100 mcg/mL chromium(VI)-equivalent cutoff; or halogen samples formulated in a concentration at or near the LOD and 25 percent above the LOD. The results of analyzing the three consecutive sets of performance test samples for each validity screening test (
i.e.
, creatinine, pH, nitrite and general oxidants, chromium, or halogen) must demonstrate that the validity screening test, by lot number, correctly identified at least 90 percent of the total validity performance test challenges on each of three sets of performance testing samples,
and, for each individual specimen validity screening test, the test, by lot number, correctly identified at least 90 percent of the validity performance test challenges on each of three sets of performance testing samples; and
(iii) After the licensee testing facility has placed a validity screening test in service, the licensee or other entity shall verify that the test, by lot number, remains on the SAMHSA-approved list. Or, if the SAMHSA-approved list is unavailable, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that the test continues to identify specimens of questionable validity, as demonstrated by documentation from the manufacturer that a set of validity screening tests from each lot in use by the licensee testing facility correctly identified at least 90 percent of the total validity test challenges on a set of performance testing samples, and, for each individual specimen validity screening test, that the test, by lot number, correctly identified at least 90 percent of the validity test challenges. This performance testing must be performed at a nominal annual frequency after the date on which the manufacturer completed the initial validation studies required under paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(D) of this section. The performance testing samples used must be formulated to challenge the validity screening test around the applicable cutoffs of this subpart.
(2) In addition, licensee testing facility personnel who perform the validity screening tests shall conduct quality control testing of validity screening tests as follows:
(i) At the beginning of any 8-hour period during which the licensee testing facility will perform validity screening tests, licensee testing facility personnel shall test a minimum of one quality control sample that is negative for each specific validity test to be performed (e.g., creatinine, pH, nitrites, chromium) during the 8-hour period, and one quality control sample that is formulated to challenge the validity screening test(s) around the cutoffs specified in this subpart for each specific validity test to be performed during the 8-hour period. The results of these quality control tests must be correct before any donor specimens may be tested.
(ii) After screening every ten donor specimens during the 8-hour period, licensee testing facility personnel shall also challenge each validity screening test with at least one quality control sample that is formulated to challenge the validity screening test(s) around the cutoffs specified in this subpart. If fewer than ten donor specimens were screened during the 8-hour period or the number of donor specimens tested exceeds a multiple of ten but is less than the next multiple of ten (e.g., 24 donor specimens, 48 donor specimens), licensee testing facility personnel shall challenge each validity screening test at the end of the 8-hour period during which the validity screening tests were performed.
(3) The licensee testing facility shall also submit at least one specimen out of every ten donor specimens that test negative using each validity screening test that the licensee testing facility uses to an HHS-certified laboratory as part of the licensee testing facility's quality assurance program.
(4) Licensee testing facilities shall store specimen validity tests as specified by the manufacturer's instructions and may not use such tests after the manufacturer's expiration date.
(c)
Validity screening test results.
If the results of a validity screening test indicate that the specimen is of questionable validity, the licensee testing facility may either perform initial validity testing or shall forward the specimen to the HHS-certified laboratory for further testing.
(d)
Quality control requirements for performing initial validity tests.
Licensees and other entities shall ensure that the HHS-certified laboratory is capable of conducting confirmatory testing for any adulterant for which the licensee testing facility conducts initial validity tests.
(1) Creatinine. Creatinine concentration must be measured to 1 decimal place. The initial creatinine test must have a control in the range of 3 to 20 mg/dL and a control in the range of 21 to 25 mg/dL.
(2) Requirements for performing initial pH tests are as follows:
(i) Colorimetric pH tests must have a dynamic range of 2 to 12 and pH meters must be capable of measuring pH to one decimal place.
(ii) An initial colorimetric pH test must have the following calibrators and controls:
(A) One calibrator at 3;
(B) One calibrator at 11;
(C) One control in the range of 2 to 2.8;
(D) One control in the range of 3.2 to 4;
(E) One control in the range of 4.5 to 9;
(F) One control in the range of 10 to 10.8; and
(G) One control in the range of 11.2 to 12.
(iii) If a pH screening test is not used, an initial pH meter test must have the following calibrators and controls:
(A) One calibrator at 4;
(B) One calibrator at 7;
(C) One calibrator at 10;
(D) One control in the range of 2 to 2.8;
(E) One control in the range of 3.2 to 4;
(F) One control in the range of 10 to 10.8; and
(G) One control in the range of 11.2 to 12.
(iv) If a pH screening test is used, an initial pH meter test must have the following calibrators and controls when the screening result indicates that the pH is below the lower decision point in use:
(A) One calibrator at 4;
(B) One calibrator at 7;
(C) One control in the range of 2 to 2.8; and
(D) One control in the range of 3.2 to 4.
(v) If a pH screening test is used, an initial pH meter test must have the following calibrators and controls when the screening test result indicates that the pH is above the upper decision point in use:
(A) One calibrator at 7;
(B) One calibrator at 10;
(C) One control in the range of 10 to 10.8; and
(D) One control in the range of 11.2 to 12.
(3) Oxidizing adulterants. Initial tests for oxidizing adulterants must include a calibrator at the appropriate cutoff concentration for the compound of interest, a control without the compound of interest (
i.e.
, a certified negative control), and a control with at least one of the compounds of interest at a measurable concentration. For nitrite, the licensee testing facility shall have one control in the range of 200 to 400 mcg/mL, one control in the range of 500 to 625 mcg/mL, and a control without nitrite (
i.e.
, a certified negative control).
(4) Other adulterants. Initial tests for other adulterants must include an appropriate calibrator, a control without the compound of interest (
i.e.
, a certified negative control), and a control with the compound of interest at a measurable concentration.
(5) Each analytical run performed to conduct initial validity testing shall include at least one quality control sample.
(6) The licensee testing facility shall also submit at least one specimen out of every 10 donor specimens that test negative on the initial validity tests performed by the licensee testing facility to an HHS-certified laboratory as part of the licensee testing facility's quality assurance program.
(e)
Quality control requirements for initial drug tests.
(1) Any initial drug test performed by a licensee testing facility must use an immunoassay that meets the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for commercial distribution. Licensee testing facilities may not use non-instrumented immunoassay testing devices that are pending HHS/SAMHSA review and approval for initial drug testing under this part. In addition, licensees and other entities may not take management actions on the basis of any drug test results obtained from non-instrumented devices that may be used for validity screening tests.
(2) Licensee testing facilities shall discard negative specimens or may pool them for use in the licensee testing facility's internal quality control program after certification by an HHS-certified laboratory that the specimens are negative and valid. Licensee testing facilities may not retain any information linking donors to specimens
that are pooled for use in the internal quality control program.
(3) Licensee testing facilities may perform multiple initial drug tests for the same drug or drug class, provided that all tests meet the cutoffs and quality control requirements of this part. For example, a licensee testing facility may use immunoassay technique “A” for all drugs using the licensee's or other entity's cutoff levels, but specimens testing positive for amphetamines may also be tested using immunoassay technique “B” to eliminate any possible positives due to structural analogues; or, a valid analytical result cannot be obtained using immunoassay technique “A” and immunoassay technique “B” is used in an attempt to obtain a valid analytical result.
(4) Licensee testing facilities need not assess their false positive testing rates for drugs, because all specimens that test as positive on the initial tests for drugs and drug metabolites must be forwarded to an HHS-certified laboratory for initial and confirmatory testing.
(5) To ensure that the rate of false negative drug tests is kept to the minimum that the immunoassay technology supports, licensee testing facilities shall submit to the HHS-certified laboratory a minimum of 5 percent (or at least one) of the donor specimens screened as negative from every analytical run.
(6) A minimum of 10 percent of the total specimens in each analytical run of specimens to be initially tested for drugs and drug metabolites by the licensee testing facility must be quality control samples (
i.e.,
calibrators and controls), which the licensee testing facility shall use for internal quality control purposes. (These samples are not forwarded to the HHS-certified laboratory for further testing, other than for performance testing of the samples.) Licensee testing facilities shall ensure that quality control samples that are positive for each drug and drug metabolite for which the FFD program conducts testing are included in at least one analytical run each calendar quarter. The quality control samples for each analytical run must include—
(i) At least one control certified by an HHS-certified laboratory to contain no drug or drug metabolite;
(ii) At least one positive control with the drug or drug metabolite targeted at 25 percent above the cutoff;
(iii) At least one positive control with the drug or drug metabolite targeted at 75 percent of the cutoff;
(iv) A sufficient number of calibrators to ensure and document the linearity of the assay method over time in the concentration area of the cutoff (after acceptable values are obtained for the known calibrators, those values will be used to calculate sample data); and
(7) Licensee testing facilities shall document the implementation of procedures to ensure that carryover does not contaminate the testing of a donor's specimen.
(f)
Errors in testing.
Each licensee testing facility shall investigate any testing errors or unsatisfactory performance discovered in the testing of quality control samples, in the testing of actual specimens, or through the processing of management reviews and/or MRO reviews, as well as any other errors or matters that could adversely reflect on the licensee testing facility's testing process.
(1) Whenever possible, the investigation must determine relevant facts and identify the root cause(s) of the testing or process error.
(2) The licensee testing facility shall take action to correct the cause(s) of any errors or unsatisfactory performance that are within the licensee testing facility's control.
(3) If false negative results are obtained in any analytical run from testing the quality control samples specified in paragraphs (b), (d), and (e) of this section at the licensee testing facility, the licensee testing facility shall forward all donor specimens from that analytical run to the HHS-certified laboratory for additional testing and implement corrective actions before resuming testing of donor specimens for the drug(s), drug metabolite(s), adulterant(s), or other specimen characteristics (
i.e.
, creatinine, pH) associated with the quality control sample that yielded the false negative result(s).
(4) If a donor specimen that yielded negative validity or drug test results at the licensee testing facility yields positive, substituted, adulterated, or invalid results after confirmatory testing by the HHS-certified laboratory under paragraphs (b)(3), (d)(6), or (e)(5) of this section, the licensee or other entity shall implement corrective actions before resuming testing of donor specimens for the drug(s), drug metabolite(s), adulterant(s), or other specimen characteristics (
i.e.
, creatinine, pH) associated with the donor specimen that yielded the false negative result(s). In addition to resolving any technical, methodological, or administrative errors in the licensee testing facility's testing process, the licensee or other entity may re-collect and test specimens from any donor whose test results from the licensee testing facility may have been inaccurate.
(5) A record of the investigative findings and the corrective actions taken, where applicable, must be dated and signed by the individuals who are responsible for the day-to-day management of the licensee testing facility and reported to appropriate levels of management.
(g)
Accuracy.
Volumetric pipettes and measuring devices must be certified for accuracy or be checked by gravimetric, colorimetric, or other verification procedure. Automatic pipettes and dilutors must be checked for accuracy and reproducibility before being placed in service, and periodically thereafter.
(h)
Calibrators and controls.
Calibrators and controls must be prepared using pure drug reference materials, stock standard solutions obtained from other laboratories, or standard solutions that are obtained from commercial manufacturers and are properly labeled as to content and concentration. Calibrators and controls may not be prepared from the same stock solution. The standards and controls must be labeled with the following dates: when received; when prepared or opened; when placed in service; and when scheduled for expiration.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 38328, Aug. 3, 2009; 87 FR 71459, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.139
Reporting initial validity and drug test results.
(a) The licensee testing facility shall report as negative all specimens that are valid on the basis of validity screening or initial validity tests, or both, and are negative on the initial tests for drugs and drug metabolites. Except as permitted under § 26.75(h), positive test results from initial drug tests at the licensee testing facility may not be reported to licensee or other entity management. In addition, the licensee testing facility may not report results from validity screening or initial validity testing indicating that a specimen is of questionable validity or positive initial drug test results from specimens that are of questionable validity.
(b) Except as provided in §§ 26.37 and 26.75(h), access to the results of initial tests must be limited to the licensee testing facility's staff, the MRO and MRO staff, the FFD program manager, and, when appropriate, EAP staff and the SAE.
(c) The licensee testing facility shall provide qualified personnel, when required, to testify in an administrative or disciplinary proceeding against an individual when that proceeding is based on urinalysis results reported by the licensee testing facility.
(d) The licensee testing facility shall prepare the information required for the annual report to the NRC, as required in § 26.717.
(e) The data in the annual report to the NRC must be presented for either the cutoff levels specified in this part, or for more stringent cutoff levels, if the FFD program uses more stringent cutoff levels for drugs and drug metabolites. If the FFD program tests for drugs and drug metabolites that are not specified in § 26.31(d)(1), the summary must also include the number of positive test results and the cutoff levels used for those drugs and drug metabolites.
(f) The designated FFD program official shall use the available information from the licensee testing facility's validity and drug test results, the results of quality control testing performed at the licensee testing facility, and the results from testing the quality control
samples that the licensee testing facility submits to the HHS-certified laboratory to evaluate continued testing program effectiveness and detect any local trends in drugs of abuse that may require management action or FFD program adjustments. FFD program adjustments may include, but are not limited to, training enhancements, procedure changes, the expansion of the FFD program's drug panel to include additional drugs to be tested, or changes in the types of assays, validity screening tests, or instruments used.

# Subpart G—Laboratories Certified by the Department of Health and Human Services
§ 26.151
Purpose.
This subpart contains requirements for the HHS-certified laboratories that licensees and other entities use to perform testing under this part.
[87 FR 71459, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.153
Using certified laboratories for testing specimens.
(a) Licensees and other entities who are subject to this part shall use only HHS-certified laboratories as defined in § 26.5.
(b) HHS-certified laboratories shall have the capability, at the same premises, to perform both initial and confirmatory tests for specimen validity and for each drug and drug metabolite for which the HHS-certified laboratory provides services to the licensee or other entity.
(c) An HHS-certified laboratory may not subcontract and shall perform all work with its own personnel and equipment unless otherwise authorized by the licensee or other entity.
(d) Licensees and other entities shall use only HHS-certified laboratories that agree to follow the same rigorous specimen testing, quality control, and chain of custody procedures when testing for more stringent cutoff levels as may be specified by licensees and other entities for the classes of drugs identified in this part, and for any other substances included in the licensees' or other entities' panels.
(e) Before awarding a contract to an HHS-certified laboratory, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that qualified personnel conduct a pre-award inspection and evaluation of the procedural aspects of the laboratory's drug testing operations. However, if an HHS-certified laboratory loses its certification, in whole or in part, a licensee or other entity may immediately begin using another HHS-certified laboratory that is being used by another licensee or entity who is subject to this part, as permitted by § 26.41(g)(5).
(f) All contracts between licensees or other entities who are subject to this part and HHS-certified laboratories must require the laboratory to implement all applicable requirements of this part. At a minimum, licensees' and other entities' contracts with HHS-certified laboratories must include the following requirements:
(1) Laboratory facilities shall comply with the applicable provisions of any State licensor requirements;
(2) The laboratory shall make available qualified personnel to testify in an administrative or disciplinary proceeding against an individual when that proceeding is based on urinalysis results reported by the HHS-certified laboratory;
(3) The laboratory shall maintain test records in confidence, consistent with the requirements of § 26.37, and use them with the highest regard for individual privacy.
(4) Consistent with the principles established in section 503 of Public Law 100-71, any employee of a licensee or other entity who is the subject of a drug test (or his or her representative designated under § 26.37(d)) shall, on written request, have access to the laboratory's records related to his or her validity and drug test and any records related to the results of any relevant certification, review, or revocation-of-certification proceedings;
(5) The laboratory may not enter into any relationship with the licensee's or other entity's MRO(s) that may be construed as a potential conflict of interest, including, but not limited to, the relationships described in § 26.183(b), and may not derive any financial benefit by having a licensee or other entity use a specific MRO; and
(6) The laboratory shall permit representatives of the NRC and any licensee or other entity using the laboratory's services to inspect the laboratory at any time, including unannounced inspections.
(g) If licensees or other entities use a form other than the current Federal CCF, licensees and other entities shall provide a memorandum to the laboratory explaining why a non-Federal CCF was used, but must ensure, at a minimum, that the form used contains all the required information on the Federal CCF.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 38328, Aug. 3, 2009; 87 FR 71459, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.155
[Reserved]
§ 26.157
Procedures.
(a) HHS-certified laboratories shall develop, implement, and maintain procedures specific to this part that document the accession, receipt, shipment, and testing of specimens.
(b) [Reserved]
[87 FR 71459, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.159
Assuring specimen security, chain of custody, and preservation.
(a) The HHS-certified laboratories performing services for licensees and other entities under this part shall be secure at all times. Each laboratory shall have in place sufficient security measures to control access to the premises and to ensure that no unauthorized personnel handle specimens or gain access to the laboratory processes or areas where records are stored. Access to these secured areas must be limited to specially authorized individuals whose authorization is documented. All authorized visitors, and maintenance and service personnel, shall be escorted at all times in the laboratory, except personnel who are authorized to conduct inspections and audits on behalf of licensees, other entities, the NRC, or the HHS Secretary, and emergency personnel (including but not limited to firefighters and medical rescue teams).
(b) When a shipment of specimens is received, laboratory personnel shall inspect each package for evidence of possible tampering and shall compare information on specimen bottles within each package to the information on the accompanying Federal CCFs.
(1) Any direct evidence of tampering or discrepancies in the information on the specimen bottles and the Federal CCFs attached to the shipment must be reported to the licensee or other entity within 24 hours of the discovery and must be noted on the Federal CCFs for each specimen contained in the package. When notified, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that an investigation is initiated to determine whether tampering has occurred.
(i) If the investigation determines that tampering has occurred, the licensee or other entity shall ensure that corrective actions are taken.
(ii) If the licensee or other entity has reason to question the integrity and identity of the specimens, the laboratory shall reject the specimens for testing. The licensee or other entity shall ensure that another collection occurs as soon as reasonably practical, except if a split specimen collection was performed, either the Bottle A or Bottle B seal remains intact, and the intact specimen contains at least 15 mL of urine. In this instance, if the licensee testing facility has retained the specimen in Bottle B, the licensee testing facility shall forward the intact specimen for testing to the HHS-certified laboratory and may not conduct any testing at the licensee testing facility.
(2) The following are exclusive grounds requiring the MRO to cancel the testing of a donor's urine specimen and report a cancelled test to the licensee or other entity:
(i) The Federal CCF does not contain information to identify the specimen collector and the collection site cannot provide conclusive evidence of the collector's identity;
(ii) The identification numbers on the specimen bottle seal(s) do not match the identification numbers on the Federal CCF;
(iii) A specimen bottle seal is broken or shows evidence of tampering and an intact specimen, as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, does not exist;
(iv) The specimen appears to have leaked out of its sealed bottle and there is less than 15 mL remaining, and
an intact specimen, as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, does not exist; or
(v) As required under § 26.165(f)(2).
(c) The HHS-certified laboratory shall retain specimen bottles within the laboratory's accession area until all analyses have been completed. Laboratory personnel shall use aliquots and laboratory internal chain of custody forms when conducting initial and confirmatory tests. The original specimen and the original Federal CCF must remain in secure storage.
(d) The laboratory's internal chain of custody form must allow for identification of the donor and documentation of the testing process and transfers of custody of the specimen.
(e) Each time a specimen is handled or transferred within the laboratory, laboratory personnel shall document the date and purpose on the chain of custody form and every individual in the chain shall be identified. Authorized technicians are responsible for each urine specimen or aliquot in their possession and shall sign and complete chain of custody forms for those specimens or aliquots as they are received.
(f) If a specimen is to be transferred to a second HHS-certified laboratory, laboratory personnel shall ensure that a copy of the Federal CCF is packaged with the aliquot of a single specimen or Bottle B of a split specimen, as appropriate. Sealed and labeled specimen bottles and aliquots, with their associated Federal CCFs , being transferred from one laboratory to another must be placed in a second, tamper-evident shipping container designed to minimize the possibility of damage to the specimen during shipment (e.g., specimen boxes, padded mailers, or bulk insulated shipping containers with that capability) so that the contents of the shipping containers are inaccessible without breaking a tamper-evident seal.
(g) Couriers, express carriers, and postal service personnel do not have direct access to the Federal CCFs or the specimen bottles. Therefore, such personnel are not required to document chain of custody on the Federal CCFs during transit. Custody accountability of the shipping containers during shipment must be maintained by a tracking system provided by the courier, express carrier, or postal service.
(h) Specimens that do not receive an initial test within 7 days of arrival at the laboratory must be placed in secure refrigeration units for short-term storage. Temperatures may not exceed 6 °C (42.8 °F). The laboratory shall ensure proper storage conditions in the event of a prolonged power failure.
(i) Long-term frozen storage at a temperature of −20 °C (−4 °F) or less ensures that positive, adulterated, substituted, and invalid urine specimens and Bottle B of a split specimen will be available for any necessary retests. Unless otherwise authorized in writing by the licensee or other entity, laboratories shall retain and place in properly secured long-term frozen storage all specimens reported as positive, adulterated, substituted, or invalid. At a minimum, such specimens must be stored for 1 year. Within this 1-year period, a licensee, other entity, or the NRC may ask the laboratory to retain the specimen for an additional period of time. If no retention request is received, the laboratory may discard the specimen at the end of 1 year. However, the laboratory shall retain any specimens under review or legal challenge until they are no longer needed.
(j) The laboratory shall discard a valid specimen that tests negative on initial or confirmatory drug tests or may pool such specimens for use in the laboratory's internal quality control program after certifying that the specimens are negative and valid. The laboratory may not retain any information linking donors to specimens that are pooled for use in the internal quality control program.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 66602, Nov. 10, 2014; 87 FR 71460, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.161
Cutoff levels for validity testing.
(a)
Validity test results.
Each validity test result for a specimen that the HHS-certified laboratory reports to the MRO as adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid must be based on performing an initial validity test on one aliquot and a confirmatory validity test on a second aliquot. Licensees and other entities shall ensure that the
HHS-certified laboratory is capable of conducting, and conducts, confirmatory testing for at least one oxidizing adulterant and any other adulterants specified by the licensee's or other entity's testing program. If initial validity test results indicate that the specimen is valid under the criteria in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, the HHS-certified laboratory need not perform confirmatory validity testing of the specimen.
(b)
Initial validity testing of urine.
The HHS-certified laboratory shall perform initial validity testing of each specimen as follows:
(1) Determine the creatinine concentration;
(2) Determine the specific gravity of every specimen for which the creatinine concentration is less than 20 mg/dL;
(3) Determine the pH;
(4) Perform one or more initial validity tests for oxidizing adulterants; and
(5) Perform additional validity tests, the choice of which depends on the observed indicators or characteristics below, when the following conditions are observed:
(i) Abnormal physical characteristics;
(ii) Reactions or responses characteristic of an adulterant obtained during initial or confirmatory drug tests (e.g., non-recovery of internal standards, unusual response); or
(iii) Possible unidentified interfering substance or adulterant.
(c)
Results indicating an adulterated specimen.
The laboratory shall report a specimen as adulterated when the specimen yields any one or more of the following validity testing results:
(1) The pH is less than 3, or equal to or greater than 11, using either a pH meter or a colorimetric pH test for the initial test on the first aliquot and a pH meter for the confirmatory test on the second aliquot;
(2) The nitrite concentration is equal to or greater than 500 mcg/mL using either a nitrite colorimetric test or a general oxidant colorimetric test for the initial test on the first aliquot and a different confirmatory test (e.g., multi-wavelength spectrophotometry, ion chromatography, capillary electrophoresis) on the second aliquot;
(3) The presence of chromium (VI) is verified using either a general oxidant colorimetric test (with a cutoff equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL chromium (VI)-equivalents) or a chromium (VI) colorimetric test (chromium (VI) concentration equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL) for the initial test on the first aliquot and a different confirmatory test (e.g., multi-wavelength spectrophotometry, ion chromatography, atomic absorption spectrophotometry, capillary electrophoresis, inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry) with the chromium (VI) concentration equal to or greater than the LOQ of the confirmatory test on the second aliquot;
(4) The presence of halogen (e.g., bleach, iodine, fluoride) is verified using either a general oxidant colorimetric test (with a cutoff equal to or greater than 200 mcg/mL nitrite-equivalents or a cutoff equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL chromium (VI)-equivalents) or a halogen colorimetric test (halogen concentration equal to or greater than the LOQ) for the initial test on the first aliquot and a different confirmatory test (e.g., multi-wavelength spectrophotometry, ion chromatography, inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry) with a specific halogen concentration equal to or greater than the LOQ of the confirmatory test on the second aliquot;
(5) The presence of glutaraldehyde is verified using either an aldehyde test (aldehyde present) or the specimen yields the characteristic immunoassay response on one or more drug immunoassay tests for the initial test on the first aliquot and a different confirmatory test (
e.g.,
gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS)) for the confirmatory test with the glutaraldehyde concentration equal to or greater than the LOQ of the analysis on the second aliquot;
(6) The presence of pyridine (pyridinium chlorochromate) is verified using either a general oxidant colorimetric test (with a cutoff equal to or greater than 200 mcg/mL nitrite-equivalents or a cutoff equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL chromium (VI)-equivalents) or a chromium (VI) colorimetric test (chromium (VI) concentration equal to or greater than 50
mcg/mL) for the initial test on the first aliquot and a different confirmatory test (
e.g.,
GC/MS) for the confirmatory test with the pyridine concentration equal to or greater than the LOQ of the analysis on the second aliquot;
(7) The presence of a surfactant is verified by using a surfactant colorimetric test with a cutoff equal to or greater than 100 mcg/mL dodecylbenzene sulfonate-equivalent for the initial test on the first aliquot and a different confirmatory test (e.g., multi-wavelength spectrophotometry) with a cutoff equal to or greater than 100 mcg/mL dodecylbenzene sulfonate equivalent on the second aliquot; or
(8) The presence of any other adulterant not specified in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(7) of this section is verified using an initial test on the first aliquot and a different confirmatory test on the second aliquot.
(d)
Results indicating a substituted urine specimen.
The laboratory shall report a specimen as substituted when the specimen's creatinine concentration is less than 2 mg/dL and its specific gravity is less than or equal to 1.0010, or equal to or greater than 1.0200, on both the initial and confirmatory creatinine tests (
i.e.
, the same colorimetric test may be used to test both aliquots) and on both the initial and confirmatory specific gravity tests (
i.e.
, a refractometer is used to test both aliquots) on two separate aliquots.
(e)
Results indicating a dilute urine specimen.
The laboratory shall report a specimen as dilute when the specimen's creatinine concentration is equal to or greater than 2 mg/dL but less than 20 mg/dL and its specific gravity is greater than 1.0010 but less than 1.0030 on a single aliquot.
(f)
Results indicating an invalid specimen.
The laboratory shall report a specimen as invalid when the laboratory obtains any one or more of the following validity testing results:
(1) Inconsistent creatinine concentration and specific gravity results are obtained (
i.e.
, the creatinine concentration is less than 2 mg/dL on both the initial and confirmatory creatinine tests and the specific gravity is greater than 1.0010 but less than 1.0200 on the initial and/or confirmatory specific gravity test, the specific gravity is less than or equal to 1.0010 on both the initial and confirmatory specific gravity tests and the creatinine concentration is equal to or greater than 2 mg/dL on either or both the initial or confirmatory creatinine tests);
(2) The pH is equal to or greater than 3 and less than 4.5, or equal to or greater than 9 and less than 11, using either a colorimetric pH test or pH meter for the initial test and a pH meter for the confirmatory test on two separate aliquots;
(3) The nitrite concentration is equal to or greater than 200 mcg/mL using a nitrite colorimetric test, or equal to or greater than the equivalent of 200 mcg/mL nitrite using a general oxidant colorimetric test for both the initial test and the confirmatory test, or, using either initial test, the nitrite concentration is equal to or greater than 200 mcg/mL but less than 500 mcg/mL using a different confirmatory test (e.g., multi-wavelength spectrophotometry, ion chromatography, capillary electrophoresis) on two separate aliquots;
(4) The possible presence of chromium (VI) is determined using the same chromium (VI) colorimetric test with a cutoff equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL chromium (VI) for both the initial test and the confirmatory test on two separate aliquots;
(5) The possible presence of a halogen (e.g., bleach, iodine, fluoride) is determined using the same halogen colorimetric test with a cutoff equal to or greater than the LOQ for both the initial test and the confirmatory test on two separate aliquots or relying on the odor of the specimen as the initial test;
(6) The possible presence of glutaraldehyde is determined using the same aldehyde test (aldehyde present) or the characteristic immunoassay response is observed on one or more drug immunoassay tests for both the initial test and the confirmatory test on two separate aliquots;
(7) The possible presence of an oxidizing adulterant is determined by using the same general oxidant colorimetric test (with cutoffs equal to or greater than 200 mcg/mL nitrite-equivalents, equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL chromium (VI)-equivalents, or
a halogen concentration equal to or greater than the LOQ) for both the initial test and the confirmatory test on two separate aliquots;
(8) The possible presence of a surfactant is determined using the same surfactant colorimetric test with a cutoff equal to or greater than 100 mcg/mL dodecylbenzene sulfonate-equivalent for both the initial test and the confirmatory test on two separate aliquots or a foam/shake test for the initial test;
(9) Interference occurs on the immunoassay drug tests on two separate aliquots (
i.e.
, valid immunoassay drug test results cannot be obtained);
(10) Interference with the drug confirmation assay occurs on at least two separate aliquots of the specimen, and the laboratory is unable to identify the interfering substance;
(11) The physical appearance of the specimen indicates that testing may damage the laboratory's equipment; or
(12) The physical appearances of Bottles A and B (when a split specimen collection is used) are clearly different, and either the test result for Bottle A indicated it is an invalid specimen or the specimen in Bottle A was screened negative for drugs, or both.
(g)
Additional testing by a second laboratory.
If the presence of an interfering substance/adulterant is suspected that could make a test result invalid, but it cannot be identified (e.g., a new adulterant), laboratory personnel shall consult with the licensee's or other entity's MRO and, with the MRO's agreement, shall send the specimen to another HHS-certified laboratory that has the capability to identify the suspected substance.
(h)
Validity test cutoff levels.
Licensees and other entities may use more stringent cutoff levels for validity tests than those specified in this section only if the testing is performed at an HHS-certified laboratory.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71460, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.163
Cutoff levels for drugs and drug metabolites.
(a)
Initial drug testing.
(1) HHS-certified laboratories shall apply the following cutoff levels for initial testing of specimens to determine whether they are negative or positive for the indicated drugs and drug metabolites, except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or the licensee or other entity has established more stringent cutoff levels:
Table 1 to Paragraph (
a
)(1)—Urine, Initial Test Cutoff Levels for Drugs and Drug Metabolites
Drugs or drug metabolites
Cutoff level
[nanograms
(ng)/mL]
Marijuana metabolites
50
Cocaine metabolites
150
Opioids:
Codeine/Morphine
1
2,000
Hydrocodone/Hydromorphone
300
Oxycodone/Oxymorphone
100
6-acetylmorphine (6-AM)
10
Phencyclidine (PCP)
25
Amphetamines:
2
AMP/MAMP
3
500
MDMA
4
/MDA
5
500
1
Morphine is the target analyte for codeine/morphine testing.
2
Either a single initial test kit or multiple initial test kits may be used provided the single test kit detects each target analyte independently at the specified cutoff.
3
Methamphetamine (MAMP) is the target analyte for amphetamine (AMP)/MAMP testing.
4
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine.
5
Methylenedioxyamphetamine.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
a
)(1)—Oral Fluid, Initial Test Cutoff Levels for Drugs and Drug Metabolites
Drugs or drug metabolites
Cutoff level
1
[nanograms
(ng)/mL]
Marijuana (THC)
2
3
4
Cocaine/Benzoylecgonine
15
Opioids:
Codeine/Morphine
30
Hydrocodone/Hydromorphone
30
Oxycodone/Oxymorphone
30
6-acetylmorphine (6-AM)
4
3
Phencyclidine (PCP)
10
Amphetamines:
AMP/MAMP
4
50
MDMA/MDA
5
50
1
For grouped analytes (
i.e.,
two or more analytes in the same drug class with the same initial test cutoff):
• Immunoassay: The test must be calibrated with one analyte from the group identified as the target analyte. The cross reactivity of the immunoassay to the other analyte(s) within the group must be 80 percent or greater; if not, separate immunoassays must be used for the analytes within the group.
• Alternative technology: Either one analyte or all analytes from the group must be used for calibration, depending on the technology. At least one analyte within the group must have a concentration equal to or greater than the initial test cutoff or, alternatively, the sum of the analytes present.
2
An immunoassay must be calibrated with the target analyte, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC).
3
Alternate technology (THC and 6-AM): The confirmatory tests cutoff must be used for an alternate technology initial test that is specific for the target analyte (
i.e.,
2 ng/mL for THC, 2 ng/mL for 6-AM).
4
Amphetamine (AMP) and methamphetamine (MAMP).
5
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA).
(2) HHS-certified laboratories shall conduct special analyses of specimens as follows:
(i) If initial validity testing indicates that a specimen is dilute, or if a specimen is collected under direct observation for any of the conditions specified in § 26.115(a)(1) through (3) or (a)(5), the laboratory shall compare the immunoassay responses of the specimen to the cutoff calibrator in each drug class tested;
(ii) If any immunoassay response is equal to or greater than 40 percent of the cutoff calibrator, the laboratory shall conduct confirmatory drug testing of the specimen to the LOQ for those drugs and/or drug metabolites; and
(iii) The laboratory shall report the numerical values obtained from this special analysis to the MRO.
(b)
Confirmatory drug testing.
(1) A specimen that is identified as positive on an initial drug test must be subject to confirmatory testing for the class(es) of drugs for which the specimen initially tested positive. The HHS-certified laboratory shall apply the confirmatory cutoff levels specified in this paragraph, except as permitted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section or the licensee or other entity has established more stringent cutoff levels.
Table 3 to Paragraph (
b
)(1)—Urine, Confirmatory Test Cutoff Levels for Drugs and Drug Metabolites
Drugs or drug metabolites
Cutoff level
(ng/mL)
Marijuana metabolite
1
15
Cocaine metabolite
2
100
Opioids:
Morphine
2,000
Codeine
2,000
Hydrocodone
100
Hydromorphone
100
Oxycodone
100
Oxymorphone
100
6-acetylmorphine (6-AM)
10
Phencyclidine (PCP)
25
Amphetamines:
Amphetamine
250
Methamphetamine
3
250
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)
250
Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA)
250
1
As delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid (THCA).
2
As benzoylecgonine.
3
To be reported positive for methamphetamine, a specimen must also contain amphetamine at a concentration equal to or greater than 100 ng/mL.
Table 4 to Paragraph (
b
)(1)—Oral Fluid, Confirmatory Test Cutoff Levels for Drugs and Drug Metabolites
Drugs or drug metabolites
Cutoff level
[nanograms
(ng)/mL]
Marijuana (THC)
2
Cocaine
8
Benzoylecgonine
8
Opioids:
Codeine
15
Morphine
15
Hydrocodone
15
Hydromorphone
15
Oxycodone
15
Oxymorphone
15
6-acetylmorphine (6-AM)
2
Phencyclidine (PCP)
10
Amphetamines:
Amphetamine
25
Methamphetamine
25
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)
25
Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA)
25
(2) Each confirmatory drug test must provide a quantitative result. When the concentration of a drug or metabolite exceeds the linear range of the standard curve, the laboratory may record the result as “exceeds the linear range of the test” or as “equal to or greater than
insert the value for the upper limit of the linear range
,” or may dilute an aliquot of the specimen to obtain an accurate quantitative result
when the concentration is above the upper limit of the linear range.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71460, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.165
Testing split specimens and retesting single specimens.
(a)
Testing split specimens.
(1) If a specimen has been split into Bottle A and Bottle B at the collection site, and the specimen was not initially tested at a licensee testing facility, then the HHS-certified laboratory shall perform initial and confirmatory validity and drug testing, if required, of the specimen in Bottle A.
(2) If a specimen was initially tested at a licensee testing facility and positive or questionable validity test results were obtained, then the HHS-certified laboratory shall perform initial and confirmatory testing, if required, of the specimen in Bottle A.
(3) At the licensee's or other entity's discretion, Bottle B must either be forwarded to the HHS-certified laboratory or maintained in secure storage at the licensee testing facility, as required by § 26.135(a) and (c), as applicable. If the specimen in Bottle A is free of any evidence of drugs or drug metabolites, and is a valid specimen, then the licensee testing facility or HHS-certified laboratory may discard the specimens in Bottles A and B.
(b)
Donor request to MRO for a retest of a single specimen or testing Bottle B of a split specimen.
(1) For a confirmed positive, adulterated, or substituted result reported on a single specimen of 30 mL or more, or a specimen in Bottle A of a split specimen which the donor submitted to the licensee or other entity, a donor may request (through the MRO) that an aliquot from the single specimen or the split (Bottle B) specimen be tested by a second HHS-certified laboratory to verify the result reported by the first laboratory. For an invalid test result, a donor may not request that an aliquot from the single specimen or the split specimen in Bottle B be tested by a second HHS-certified laboratory.
(2) The MRO shall inform the donor that he or she may, within 3 business days of notification by the MRO of the confirmed positive, adulterated, or substituted test result, request the retesting of an aliquot of the single specimen or the testing of the Bottle B split specimen. The MRO shall provide the donor with specific instructions for making this request (
i.e.
, providing telephone numbers or other contact information). The MRO shall have the ability to receive the donor's calls at all times during the 3-day period (e.g., by use of an answering machine with a “time stamp” feature when there is no one in the MRO's office to answer the phone). The donor's request may be oral or in writing. The MRO shall document in his or her records when (
i.e.,
date and time) the request was received from the donor to retest an aliquot of the single specimen or to test the Bottle B split specimen.
(3) No entity, other than the MRO as permitted in § 26.185(l), may order the retesting of an aliquot of the single specimen or the testing of the Bottle B split specimen.
(4) If the donor has not requested a retest of an aliquot of a single specimen or a test of the split specimen (Bottle B) within 3 business days, the donor may present to the MRO information documenting that serious injury, illness, lack of actual notice of the confirmed test result, inability to contact the MRO (e.g., there was no one in the MRO's office and the answering machine was not working), or other circumstances unavoidably prevented the donor from making a timely request. If the MRO concludes from the donor's information that there was a legitimate reason for the donor's failure to contact the MRO within the 3 business days permitted, the MRO shall direct the retesting of an aliquot of the single specimen or the test of the split specimen (Bottle B) take place, as if the donor had made a timely request.
(5) As soon as reasonably practical and not more than 1 business day following the day of the donor's request, as permitted in paragraph (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section, the MRO shall ensure that the HHS-certified laboratory forwards an aliquot of a single specimen, or that the HHS-certified laboratory (or licensee testing facility, as appropriate) forwards Bottle B of a split specimen, to a second HHS-certified laboratory that did not test the specimen in Bottle A.
(6) The HHS-certified laboratory that retests an aliquot of a single specimen or tests the specimen in Bottle B shall provide quantitative test results to the MRO and the MRO shall provide them to the donor.
(c)
Retesting a specimen for drugs.
(1) The second laboratory shall use its confirmatory drug test when retesting an aliquot of a single specimen or testing Bottle B of a split specimen for the drug(s) or drug metabolite(s) for which the first laboratory reported a positive result(s), including retesting specimens that have been subject to the special analysis permitted in § 26.163(a)(2).
(2) Because some drugs or drug metabolites may deteriorate during storage, the retest by the second laboratory is not subject to a specific drug cutoff level, but must provide data sufficient to reconfirm the presence of the drug(s) or drug metabolite(s) down to the assay's LOD.
(3) If the second laboratory fails to reconfirm the presence of the drug(s) or drug metabolite(s) for which the first laboratory reported a positive result(s), the second laboratory shall attempt to determine the reason for not reconfirming the first laboratory's findings by conducting specimen validity tests. The second laboratory shall conduct the same specimen validity tests it would conduct on a single specimen or the specimen in Bottle A of a split specimen.
(4) The second laboratory shall report all results to the licensee's or other entity's MRO.
(d)
Retesting a specimen for adulterants.
A second laboratory shall use the required confirmatory validity test and criteria in § 26.161(c) to reconfirm an adulterant result when retesting an aliquot from a single specimen or when testing Bottle B of a split specimen. The second laboratory may only conduct the confirmatory validity test needed to reconfirm the adulterant result reported by the first laboratory.
(e)
Retesting a specimen for substitution.
A second laboratory shall use its confirmatory creatinine and confirmatory specific gravity tests, when retesting an aliquot of a single specimen or testing Bottle B of a split specimen, to reconfirm that the creatinine concentration was less than 2 mg/dL and the specific gravity was less than or equal to 1.0010 or equal to or greater than 1.0200. The second laboratory may only conduct the confirmatory creatinine and specific gravity tests to reconfirm the substitution result reported by the first laboratory.
(f)
Management actions and sanctions.
(1) If the MRO confirms a positive, adulterated, or substituted test result(s) from the first HHS-certified laboratory and the donor requests testing of Bottle B of a split specimen or retesting of an aliquot from a single specimen, the licensee or other entity shall administratively withdraw the individual's authorization on the basis of the first confirmed positive, adulterated, or substituted test result until the results of testing Bottle B or retesting an aliquot of the single specimen are available and have been reviewed by the MRO. If the MRO reports that the results of testing Bottle B or retesting the aliquot of a single specimen reconfirm any of the original positive, adulterated, or substituted test result(s), the licensee or other entity shall impose the appropriate sanctions specified in subpart D. If the results of testing Bottle B or retesting the aliquot of a single specimen are negative, the MRO shall report a cancelled test result to the licensee or other entity, and the licensee and other entity—
(i) May not impose any sanctions on the individual;
(ii) Shall eliminate from the donor's personnel file and other records any matter that could link the individual to the temporary administrative action;
(iii) May not disclose the temporary administrative action in response to a suitable inquiry conducted under the provisions of § 26.63 or to any other inquiry or investigation required in this chapter. To ensure that no records have been retained, access to the system of files and records must be provided to personnel conducting reviews, inquiries into allegations, or audits under the provisions of § 26.41, or to NRC inspectors; and
(iv) Shall provide the tested individual with a written statement that the records specified in §§ 26.713 and 26.715 have not been retained and shall inform the individual in writing that
the temporary administrative action that was taken will not be disclosed and need not be disclosed by the individual in response to requests for self-disclosure of potentially disqualifying FFD information.
(2) If a donor requests that Bottle B be tested or that an aliquot of the single specimen be retested, and either Bottle B or the single specimen are not available due to circumstances outside of the donor's control (including, but not limited to, circumstances in which there is an insufficient quantity of the single specimen or the specimen in Bottle B to permit retesting, either Bottle B or the original single specimen is lost in transit to the second HHS-certified laboratory, or Bottle B has been lost at the HHS-certified laboratory or licensee testing facility), the MRO shall cancel the test, report a cancelled test result to the licensee or other entity for the donor's specimen, and inform the licensee or other entity that another collection is required under direct observation as soon as reasonably practical. The donor shall receive no notice of the collection requirement before he or she is instructed to proceed to the collection site. The licensee or other entity shall continue to administratively withdraw the individual's authorization, as required by § 26.165(f)(1) until the results of the second specimen collection have been received by the MRO. The licensee or other entity shall eliminate from the donor's personnel and other records any matter that could link the donor to the original positive, adulterated, or substituted test result(s) and any temporary administrative action, and may not impose any sanctions on the donor for a cancelled test. If test results from the second specimen collected are positive, adulterated, or substituted and the MRO determines that the donor has violated the FFD policy, the licensee or other entity shall impose the appropriate sanctions specified in subpart D of this part, but may not consider the original confirmed positive, adulterated, or substituted test result that was reported as a cancelled test by the MRO under § 26.129(b)(2) or § 26.159(b)(2) in determining the appropriate sanctions.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71461, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.167
Quality assurance and quality control.
(a)
Quality assurance program.
Each HHS-certified laboratory shall have a quality assurance program that encompasses all aspects of the testing process, including, but not limited to, specimen accessioning, chain of custody, security and reporting of results, initial and confirmatory testing, certification of calibrators and controls, and validation of analytical procedures. The performance characteristics (e.g., accuracy, precision, LOD, limit of quantitation (LOQ), specificity) of each test must be validated and documented for each test. Validation of procedures must document that carryover does not affect the donor's specimen results. Periodic re-verification of analytical procedures is required. Quality assurance procedures must be designed, implemented, and reviewed to monitor the conduct of each step of the testing process.
(b)
Calibrators and controls required.
Each analytical run of specimens for which an initial or confirmatory validity test, or an initial or confirmatory drug test, is being performed must include the appropriate calibrators and controls.
(c)
Quality control requirements for performing initial and confirmatory validity tests on urine.
(1) Requirements for performing creatinine tests:
(i) The creatinine concentration must be measured to one decimal place on both the initial and the confirmatory creatinine tests;
(ii) The initial creatinine test must have a calibrator at 2 mg/dL;
(iii) The initial creatinine test must have a control in the range of 1 to 1.5 mg/dL, a control in the range of 3 to 20 mg/dL, and a control in the range of 21 to 25 mg/dL; and
(iv) The confirmatory creatinine test (performed on those specimens with a creatinine concentration less than 2 mg/dL on the initial test) must have a calibrator at 2 mg/dL, a control in the range of 1.0 to 1.5 mg/dL, and a control in the range of 3 to 4 mg/dL.
(2) Requirements for performing specific gravity tests:
(i) The refractometer must report and display the specific gravity to four decimal places, and must be interfaced with a laboratory information management system, or computer, and/or generate a hard copy or digital electronic display to document the numerical result;
(ii) The initial and confirmatory specific gravity tests must have a calibrator or control at 1.0000; and
(iii) The initial and confirmatory specific gravity tests must have the following controls:
(A) One control targeted at 1.0020;
(B) One control in the range of 1.0040 to 1.0180; and
(C) One control equal to or greater than 1.0200 but not greater than 1.0250.
(3) Requirements for performing pH tests:
(i) Colorimetric pH tests that have the dynamic range of 2 to 12 to support the 3 and 11 pH cutoffs and pH meters must be capable of measuring pH to one decimal place. Dipsticks, colorimetric pH tests, and pH paper that have a narrow dynamic range and do not support the 2 to 12 pH cutoffs may be used only to determine whether initial validity tests must be performed;
(ii) At a minimum, pH screening tests must have the following controls:
(A) One control below the lower decision point in use;
(B) One control between the decision points in use; and
(C) One control above the upper decision point in use;
(iii) If a pH screening test is not used, an initial pH meter test must have the following calibrators and controls:
(A) One calibrator at 4;
(B) One calibrator at 7;
(C) One calibrator at 10;
(D) One control in the range of 2 to 2.8;
(E) One control in the range of 3.2 to 4;
(F) One control in the range of 10 to 10.8; and
(G) One control in the range of 11.2 to 12;
(iv) If a pH screening test is used, an initial or confirmatory pH meter test must have the following calibrators and controls when the screening result indicates that the pH is below the lower decision point in use:
(A) One calibrator at 4;
(B) One calibrator at 7;
(C) One control in the range of 2 to 2.8; and
(D) One control in the range of 3.2 to 4;
(v) If a pH screening test is used, an initial or confirmatory pH meter test must have the following calibrators and controls when the screening result indicates that the pH is above the upper decision point in use:
(A) One calibrator at 7;
(B) One calibrator at 10;
(C) One control in the range of 10 to 10.8; and
(D) One control in the range of 11.2 to 12; and
(vi) An initial colorimetric pH test must have the following calibrators and controls:
(A) One calibrator at 3;
(B) One calibrator at 11;
(C) One control in the range of 2 to 2.8;
(D) One control in the range of 3.2 to 4;
(E) One control in the range of 4.5 to 9;
(F) One control in the range of 10 to 10.8;
(G) One control in the range of 11.2 to 12.
(4) Requirements for performing oxidizing adulterant tests:
(i) Initial tests for oxidizing adulterants must include a calibrator at the appropriate cutoff concentration for the compound of interest as specified in § 26.161(c) and (f), a control without the compound of interest (
i.e.
, a certified negative control), and at least one control with one of the compounds of interest at a measurable concentration; and
(ii) A confirmatory test for a specific oxidizing adulterant must use a different analytical method than that used for the initial test. Each confirmatory analytical run must include a calibrator at the appropriate cutoff concentration for the compound of interest as specified in § 26.161(c) and (f), a control without the compound of interest (
i.e.
, a certified negative control), and a control with the compound
of interest at a measurable concentration.
(5) Requirements for performing nitrite tests: The initial and confirmatory nitrite tests must have a calibrator at the cutoff concentration, a control without nitrite (
i.e.
, certified negative urine specimen), one control in the range of 200 to 400 mcg/mL, and one control in the range of 500 to 625 mcg/mL.
(6) Requirements for performing “other” adulterant tests:
(i) The initial and confirmatory tests for any “other” adulterant that may be identified in the future must satisfy the requirements in § 26.161(a);
(ii) The confirmatory test for “other” adulterants must use a different analytical principle or chemical reaction than that used for the initial test; and
(iii) The initial and confirmatory tests for “other” adulterants must include an appropriate calibrator, a control without the compound of interest (
i.e.
, a certified negative control), and a control with the compound of interest at a measurable concentration.
(d)
Quality control requirements for performing initial drug tests.
(1) Any initial drug test of urine performed by an HHS-certified laboratory must use an immunoassay that meets the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for commercial distribution. Non-instrumented immunoassay testing devices that are pending HHS/SAMHSA review and approval may not be used for initial drug testing under this part.
(2) HHS-certified laboratories may perform multiple initial drug tests for the same drug or drug class, provided that all tests meet the cutoffs and quality control requirements of this part. For example, an HHS-certified laboratory may use immunoassay technique “A” for all drugs using the licensee's or other entity's cutoff levels, but specimens testing positive for amphetamines may also be tested using immunoassay technique “B” to eliminate any possible positives due to structural analogues; or, a valid analytical result cannot be obtained using immunoassay technique “A” and immunoassay technique “B” is used in an attempt to obtain a valid analytical result.
(3) Quality control samples for each analytical run of specimens for initial testing must include—
(i) At least one control certified to contain no drug or drug metabolite;
(ii) At least one positive control with the drug or drug metabolite targeted at 25 percent above the cutoff;
(iii) At least one positive control with the drug or drug metabolite targeted at 75 percent of the cutoff;
(iv) A sufficient number of calibrators to ensure and document the linearity of the assay method over time in the concentration area of the cutoff (after acceptable values are obtained for the known calibrators, those values will be used to calculate sample data); and
(v) At least one control that appears to be a donor specimen to the laboratory analysts.
(4) A minimum of 10 percent of the total specimens in each analytical run must be quality control samples (
i.e.,
calibrators and controls), as defined by paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(e)
Quality control requirements for performing confirmatory drug tests.
(1) Confirmatory tests for drugs and drug metabolites must be performed using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) or other confirmatory test methodologies that HHS-certified laboratories are permitted to use in Federal workplace drug testing programs for this purpose.
(2) A minimum of 10 percent of the total specimens in each analytical run must be quality control samples (
i.e.,
calibrators and controls).
(3) Each analytical run of specimens that are subjected to confirmatory testing must include—
(i) At least one control certified to contain no drug or drug metabolite;
(ii) A calibrator with its drug concentration at the cutoff;
(iii) At least one positive control with the drug or drug metabolite targeted at 25 percent above the cutoff; and
(iv) At least one control targeted at or below 40 percent of the cutoff.
(f)
Errors in testing.
The licensee or other entity shall ensure that the HHS-
certified laboratory investigates any testing errors or unsatisfactory performance discovered in blind performance testing, as required under § 26.168, in the testing of actual specimens, or through the processing of reviews, as well as any other errors or matters that could adversely reflect on the testing process.
(1) Whenever possible, the investigation must determine relevant facts and identify the root cause(s) of the testing or process error. The licensee or other entity, and the HHS-certified laboratory, shall take action to correct the causes of any errors or unsatisfactory performance that are within each entity's control. Sufficient records shall be maintained to furnish evidence of activities affecting quality. The licensee or other entity shall assure that the cause of the condition is determined and that corrective action is taken to preclude repetition. The identification of the significant condition, the cause of the condition, and the corrective action taken shall be documented and reported to appropriate levels of management.
(2) If a false positive error occurs on a blind performance test sample or on a regular specimen, the licensee or other entity shall require the laboratory to take corrective action to minimize the occurrence of the particular error in the future. If there is reason to believe that the error could have been systematic, the licensee or other entity may also require review and re-analysis of previously run specimens.
(3) If a false positive error occurs on a blind performance test sample and the error is determined to be technical or methodological, the licensee or other entity shall instruct the laboratory to provide all quality control data from the batch or analytical run of specimens that included a false positive sample. In addition, the licensee or other entity shall require the laboratory to retest all specimens that analyzed as positive for that drug or metabolite, or as adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid in validity testing, from the time of final resolution of the error back to the time of the last satisfactory performance test cycle. This retesting must be documented by a statement signed by the laboratory's Responsible Person. The licensee or other entity and the NRC also may require an onsite review of the laboratory, which may be conducted unannounced during any hours of operation of the laboratory.
(g)
Accuracy.
Volumetric pipettes and measuring devices must be certified for accuracy or be checked by gravimetric, colorimetric, or other verification procedures. Automatic pipettes and dilutors must be checked for accuracy and reproducibility both before being placed in service and periodically thereafter.
(h)
Calibrators and controls.
Laboratory calibrators and controls must be prepared using pure drug reference materials, stock standard solutions obtained from other laboratories, or standard solutions that are obtained from commercial manufacturers and are properly labeled as to content and concentration. Calibrators and controls may not be prepared from the same stock solution. The standards and controls must be labeled with the following dates: when received; when prepared or opened; when placed in service; and when scheduled for expiration.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71462, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.168
Blind performance testing.
(a) Each licensee and other entity shall submit blind performance test samples to the HHS-certified laboratory.
(1) During the initial 90-day period of any contract with an HHS-certified laboratory (not including rewritten or renewed contracts), each licensee or other entity shall submit blind performance test samples to each HHS-certified laboratory with whom it contracts in the amount of at least 20 percent of the total number of specimens submitted (up to a maximum of 100 blind performance test samples) or 30 blind performance test samples, whichever is greater.
(2) Following the initial 90-day period, the number of blind performance test samples submitted per quarter must be a minimum of one percent of all specimens (up to a maximum of 100) or ten blind performance test samples, whichever is greater.
(3) Both during the initial 90-day period and quarterly thereafter, licensees and other entities should attempt to submit blind performance test samples at a frequency that corresponds to the submission frequency for other specimens.
(b) Approximately 60 percent of the blind performance test samples submitted to the laboratory must be positive for one or more drugs or drug metabolites per sample and submitted so that all of the drugs for which the FFD program is testing are included at least once each calendar quarter, except as follows:
(1) Licensees and other entities shall submit blind performance test samples that are positive for marijuana metabolite at least two times each quarter; and
(2) In at least two quarters each year, licensees and other entities shall submit an additional blind performance test sample that is positive for cocaine instead of the required sample that is positive for PCP.
(c) The positive blind performance test samples must be positive for only those drugs for which the FFD program is testing and formulated at concentrations established in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(d) To challenge the HHS-certified laboratory's ability to limit false negatives, approximately 10 percent of the blind performance test samples submitted to the laboratory each quarter must be formulated at the concentrations established in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
(e) To challenge the HHS-certified laboratory's ability to determine specimen validity, the licensee or other entity shall submit blind performance test samples each quarter that are appropriately adulterated, diluted, or substituted, in the amount of 20 percent of the specimens submitted that quarter or at least three samples per quarter (one each that is adulterated, diluted, or substituted), whichever is greater. These samples must be formulated at the concentrations established in paragraphs (g)(4) through (g)(6) of this section.
(f) Approximately 10 percent of the blind performance test samples submitted to the laboratory each quarter must be negative, as specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(g) Licensees and other entities shall use only blind performance test samples that have been certified by the supplier to be—
(1) Negative. A negative blind performance test sample may not contain a measurable amount of a target drug analyte and must be certified by immunoassay and confirmatory testing;
(2) Drug positive. These samples must contain a measurable amount of the target drug or analyte in concentrations ranging between 150 and 200 percent of the initial cutoff values and be certified by immunoassay and confirmatory testing to contain one or more drug(s) or drug metabolite(s);
(3) A false negative challenge. This blind performance test sample must contain a measurable amount of the target drug or analyte in concentrations ranging between 130 and 155 percent of the initial cutoff values;
(4) Adulterated. The adulterated blind performance test sample must have a pH of less than or equal to 2, or greater than or equal to 12, or a nitrite or other oxidant concentration equal to or greater than 500 mcg/mL, equal to or greater than 50 mcg/mL chromium (VI)-equivalents, or a halogen concentration equal to or greater than the LOD. Blind performance test samples for other adulterants must have adulterant concentrations equal to or greater than (or equal to or less than, as appropriate) the initial cutoff levels used by the licensee's or other entity's HHS-certified laboratory;
(5) Dilute. The dilute blind performance test sample must contain a creatinine concentration that is equal to or greater than 5 mg/dL but less than 20 mg/dL, and the specific gravity must be greater than 1.0010 but less than 1.0030; or
(6) Substituted. The substituted blind performance test sample must contain less than 2 mg/dL of creatinine, and the specific gravity must be less than or equal to 1.0010, or equal to or greater than 1.0200.
(h) In order to ensure that blind performance test samples continue to
meet the criteria set forth in paragraph (g) of this section, licensees and other entities shall—
(1) Ensure that all blind performance test sample lots are placed in service by the supplier only after confirmation by an HHS-certified laboratory;
(2) Ensure that the supplier provides the expiration date for each blind performance test sample to ensure that each sample will have the expected value when it is submitted to and tested by a laboratory; and
(3) At a minimum, require the supplier to check each open lot bi-monthly (
i.e.
, every two months) to ensure that samples remaining in the lot do not fall below 130 percent of the initial cutoff test concentration established by the assay manufacturer. Thus, for example, a lot that was certified by an HHS-certified laboratory at 155 percent of the manufacturer's assay cutoff level, and was reported by the licensee's or other entity's HHS-certified laboratory to be at or above 130 percent of that standard is acceptable. A test that indicated a result below 130 percent of that standard would be unacceptable. Licensees and other entities shall discard blind performance test samples from any lot that is outside of these parameters and may not use any further samples from that lot.
(i) Licensees and other entities shall ensure that each blind performance test sample is indistinguishable to laboratory personnel from a donor's specimen, as follows:
(1) The licensee or other entity shall submit blind performance test samples to the laboratory using the same channels (
i.e.
, from the licensee's or other entity's collection site or licensee testing facility, as appropriate) through which donors' specimens are sent to the laboratory;
(2) The collector and licensee testing facility personnel, as appropriate, shall use a Federal CCF, place fictional initials on the specimen bottles' labels/seals, and indicate for the MRO on the MRO's copy that the specimen is a blind performance test sample; and
(3) The licensee or other entity shall ensure that all blind performance test samples include split samples, when the FFD program includes split specimen procedures.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 86909, Dec. 2, 2016; 87 FR 71462, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.169
Reporting Results.
(a) The HHS-certified laboratory shall report test results to the licensee's or other entity's MRO within 5 business days after receiving the specimen from the licensee or other entity. Before reporting any test result to the MRO, the laboratory's Certifying Scientist shall certify the result as correct. The report must identify the substances for which testing was performed; the results of the validity and drug tests; the cutoff levels for each; any indications of tampering, adulteration, or substitution that may be present; the specimen identification number assigned by the licensee or other entity; and the specimen identification number assigned by the laboratory.
(b) If licensees or other entities specify cutoff levels for drugs or drug metabolites that are more stringent than those specified in this part, the laboratory need only conduct the more stringent tests and shall report the results of the initial and confirmatory tests only for the more stringent cutoff levels.
(c) The HHS-certified laboratory shall report as negative all specimens that are negative on the initial or confirmatory drug and validity tests. Specimens that test as positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid on the confirmatory analysis must be reported to the MRO as positive for a specific drug(s) or drug metabolite(s), or as meeting the criteria for an adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid specimen.
(1) The laboratory shall report all positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, and invalid test results for each specimen to the MRO. For example, a specimen may be both adulterated and positive for one or more specific drugs.
(2) For a specimen that has a positive test result, the laboratory shall provide numerical values if the MRO requests such information. The MRO's request for positive confirmatory test results may be either a general request
covering all such results or a specific case-by-case request. The laboratory shall routinely provide quantitative values for confirmatory test results for morphine or codeine that are greater than or equal to 15,000 ng/mL, even if the MRO has not requested quantitative values for the test result.
(3) For a specimen that has an adulterated or substituted test result, the laboratory shall provide the MRO with the numerical values that support the reported result. The MRO may not disclose the numerical values to the licensee or other entity, except as permitted in § 26.37(b). If the numerical values for creatinine are below the LOD, the laboratory shall report to the MRO “creatinine: none detected” (
i.e.
, substituted) along with the numerical values of the specific gravity test.
(4) For a specimen that has an invalid result, the laboratory shall contact the MRO and both will decide whether testing by another certified laboratory would be useful in being able to report a positive or adulterated result. This contact may occur through any secure electronic means (e.g., telephone, fax, e-mail). If no further testing is necessary, the laboratory shall report the invalid result to the MRO.
(5) When the concentration of a drug, metabolite, or adulterant exceeds the linear range of the standard curve, the laboratory may report to the MRO that the quantitative value “exceeds the linear range of the test,” that the quantitative value is “equal to or greater than
insert the value for the upper limit of the linear range
,” or may report an accurate quantitative value above the upper limit of the linear range that was obtained by diluting an aliquot of the specimen.
(d) The MRO and MRO staff may not disclose quantitative test results to a licensee or other entity, but shall report only whether the specimen was positive (and for which analyte), adulterated, substituted, dilute, invalid, or negative, except as permitted under § 26.37(b). This paragraph does not preclude either the HHS-certified laboratory or the MRO from providing program performance data, as required under § 26.717.
(e) The laboratory may transmit results to the MRO by various electronic means (e.g., teleprinters, facsimile, or computer) in a manner designed to ensure the confidentiality of the information. The laboratory may not provide results orally by telephone. The licensee or other entity, directly or through the HHS-certified laboratory, shall ensure the security of the data transmission and ensure only authorized access to any data transmission, storage, and retrieval system.
(f) For negative test results, the HHS-certified laboratory may fax, courier, mail, or electronically transmit a computer-generated electronic report and/or a legible image or copy of the completed Federal CCF to the MRO. However, for positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, and invalid results, the laboratory shall fax, courier, mail, or electronically transmit a legible image or copy of the completed Federal CCF to the MRO.
(g) For a specimen that has a positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid result, the laboratory shall retain the original Federal CCF and transmit to the MRO a copy of the original Federal CCF signed by a certifying scientist.
(h) The HHS-certified laboratory shall provide to the licensee's or other entity's official responsible for coordination of the FFD program an annual statistical summary of testing, which may not include any personal identifying information. To avoid sending data from which it is likely that information about a donor's test result can be readily inferred, the laboratory may not send a summary report if the licensee or other entity has fewer than 10 specimen test results in a 1-year period. The summary report must include test results that were reported within the year period. The laboratory shall send the summary report to the licensee or other entity within 14 calendar days after the end of the 1-year period covered by the report. The statistics must be presented either for the cutoff levels specified in this part or for any more stringent cutoff levels that the licensee or other entity may specify. The HHS-certified laboratory shall make available quantitative results for all specimens tested when requested by the NRC, licensee, or other
entity for whom the laboratory is performing drug-testing services. If the FFD program tests for additional drugs beyond those listed in § 26.31(d), the summary must include drug test results for the additional drugs. The summary report must contain the following information:
(1) Total number of specimens received;
(2) Number of specimens reported as—
(i) Negative, and
(ii) Negative and dilute;
(3) Number of specimens reported as positive on confirmatory tests by drug or drug metabolite for which testing is conducted, including, but not limited to—
(i) Marijuana metabolite (as THCA);
(ii) Cocaine metabolite (as benzoylecgonine);
(iii) Opioids (total);
(A) Codeine;
(B) Morphine;
(C) 6-acetylmorphine (6-AM);
(D) Hydrocodone;
(E) Hydromorphone;
(F) Oxycodone; and
(G) Oxymorphone;
(iv) Phencyclidine (PCP);
(v) Amphetamines (total);
(A) Amphetamine;
(B) Methamphetamine;
(C) Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA); and
(D) Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA);
(4) Total number of specimens reported as adulterated;
(5) Total number of specimens reported as substituted;
(6) Total number of specimens reported as positive and dilute [including an indication as to whether the specimen was subject to the special analysis permitted in § 26.163(a)(2)];
(7) Total number of specimens reported as invalid; and
(8) Number of specimens reported as rejected for testing and the reason for the rejection.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71462, Nov. 22, 2022]

# Subpart H—Determining Fitness-for-Duty Policy Violations and Determining Fitness
§ 26.181
Purpose.
This subpart contains requirements for determining whether a donor has violated the FFD policy and for making a determination of fitness.
§ 26.183
Medical review officer.
(a)
Qualifications.
The MRO shall be knowledgeable of this part and of the FFD policies of the licensees and other entities for whom the MRO provides services. The MRO shall be a physician holding either a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathy degree who is licensed to practice medicine by any State or Territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The MRO shall have passed an examination administered by a nationally-recognized MRO certification board or subspecialty board for medical practitioners in the field of medical review of Federally mandated drug tests.
(b)
Relationships.
The MRO may be an employee of the licensee or other entity or a contractor. However, the MRO may not be an employee or agent of, or have any financial interest in, an HHS-certified laboratory or a contracted operator of a licensee testing facility for whom the MRO reviews drug test results. Additionally, the MRO may not derive any financial benefit by having the licensee or other entity use a specific drug testing laboratory or licensee testing facility operating contractor and may not have any agreement with such parties that may be construed as a potential conflict of interest. Examples of relationships between laboratories and MROs that create conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts, include, but are not limited to—
(1) The laboratory employs an MRO who reviews test results produced by the laboratory;
(2) The laboratory has a contract or retainer with the MRO for the review of test results produced by the laboratory;
(3) The laboratory designates which MRO the licensee or other entity is to use, gives the licensee or other entity a
slate of MROs from which to choose, or recommends certain MROs;
(4) The laboratory gives the licensee or other entity a discount or other incentive to use a particular MRO;
(5) The laboratory has its place of business co-located with that of an MRO or MRO staff who review test results produced by the laboratory; or
(6) The laboratory permits an MRO, or an MRO's organization, to have a financial interest in the laboratory.
(c)
Responsibilities.
The primary role of the MRO is to review and interpret positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, and dilute test results obtained through the licensee's or other entity's testing program and to identify any evidence of subversion of the testing process. The MRO is also responsible for identifying any issues associated with collecting and testing specimens, and for advising and assisting FFD program management in planning and overseeing the overall FFD program.
(1) In carrying out these responsibilities, the MRO shall examine alternate medical explanations for any positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, or dilute test result. This action may include, but is not limited to, conducting a medical interview with the donor, reviewing the donor's medical history, or reviewing any other relevant biomedical factors. The MRO shall review all medical records that the donor may make available when a positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, or dilute test result could have resulted from responsible use of legally prescribed medication, a documented condition or disease state, or the demonstrated physiology of the donor.
(2) The MRO may only consider the results of tests of specimens that are collected and processed under this part, including the results of testing split specimens, in making his or her determination, as long as those split specimens have been stored and tested under the procedures described in this part.
(d)
MRO staff.
Individuals who provide administrative support to the MRO may be employees of a licensee or other entity, employees of the MRO, or employees of an organization with whom a licensee or other entity contracts for MRO services. Employees of a licensee or other entity who serve MRO staff functions may also perform other duties for the licensee or other entity and need not be under the direction of the MRO while performing those other duties.
(1) Direction of MRO staff activities. MROs shall be directly responsible for all administrative, technical, and professional activities of individuals who are serving MRO staff functions while they are performing those functions, and those functions must be under the MRO's direction.
(i) The duties of MRO staff must be maintained independent from any other activity or interest of a licensee or other entity, in order to protect the integrity of the MRO function and donors' privacy.
(ii) An MRO's responsibilities for directing MRO staff must include, but are not limited to, ensuring that—
(A) The procedures being performed by MRO staff meet NRC regulations and HHS' and professional standards of practice;
(B) Records and other donor personal information are maintained confidential by MRO staff and are not released to other individuals or entities, except as permitted under this part;
(C) Data transmission is secure; and
(D) Drug test results are reported to the licensee's or other entity's designated reviewing official only as required by this part.
(iii) The MRO may not delegate any of his or her responsibilities for directing MRO staff to any other individual or entity, except another MRO.
(2) MRO staff responsibilities. MRO staff may perform routine administrative support functions, including receiving test results, reviewing negative test results, and scheduling interviews for the MRO.
(i) The staff under the direction of the MRO may receive, review, and report negative test results to the licensee's or other entity's designated representative.
(ii) The staff reviews of positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, and dilute test results must be limited to reviewing the Federal CCF to determine whether it contains any errors that may require corrective action and to ensure that it is consistent with the
information on the MRO's copy. The staff may resolve errors in Federal CCFs that require corrective action(s), but shall forward the Federal CCFs to the MRO for review and approval of the resolution.
(iii) The staff may not conduct interviews with donors to discuss positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, or dilute test results nor request medical information from a donor. Only the MRO may request and review medical information related to a positive, adulterated, substituted, or invalid test result or other matter from a donor.
(iv) Staff may not report nor discuss with any individuals other than the MRO and other MRO staff any positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, or dilute test results received from the HHS-certified laboratory before those results have been reviewed and confirmed by the MRO. Any MRO staff discussions of confirmed positive, adulterated, substituted, invalid, or dilute test results must be limited to discussions only with the licensee's or other entity's FFD program personnel and may not reveal quantitative test results or any personal medical information about the donor that the MRO may have obtained in the course of reviewing confirmatory test results from the HHS-certified laboratory.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 58464, Nov. 20, 2018; 87 FR 71462, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.185
Determining a fitness-for-duty policy violation.
(a)
MRO review required.
A positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid drug test result does not automatically identify an individual as having used drugs in violation of the NRC's regulations, or the licensee's or other entity's FFD policy, or as having attempted to subvert the testing process. An individual who has a detailed knowledge of possible alternate medical explanations is essential to the review of the results. The MRO shall review all positive, adulterated, substituted, and invalid test results from the HHS-certified laboratory to determine whether the donor has violated the FFD policy before reporting the results to the licensee's or other entity's designated representative.
(b)
Reporting of initial test results prohibited.
Neither the MRO nor MRO staff may report positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid initial test results that are received from the HHS-certified laboratory to the licensee or other entity.
(c)
Discussion with the donor.
Before determining that a positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid test result or other occurrence is an FFD policy violation and reporting it to the licensee or other entity, the MRO shall give the donor an opportunity to discuss the test result or other occurrence with the MRO, except as described in paragraph (d) of this section. After this discussion, if the MRO determines that a positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid test result or other occurrence is an FFD policy violation, the MRO shall immediately notify the licensee's or other entity's designated representative.
(d)
Donor unavailability.
The MRO may determine that a positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid test result or other occurrence is an FFD policy violation without having discussed the test result or other occurrence directly with the donor in the following three circumstances:
(1) The MRO has made and documented contact with the donor and the donor expressly declined the opportunity to discuss the test result or other occurrence that may constitute an FFD policy violation;
(2) A representative of the licensee or other entity, or an MRO staff member, has successfully made and documented contact with the donor and has instructed him or her to contact the MRO, and more than 1 business day has elapsed since the date on which the licensee's representative or MRO's staff member successfully contacted the donor; or
(3) The MRO, after making all reasonable efforts and documenting the dates and time of those efforts, has been unable to contact the donor. Reasonable efforts include, at a minimum, three attempts, spaced reasonably over a 24-hour period, to reach the donor at the day and evening telephone numbers listed on the Federal CCF.
(e)
Additional opportunity for discussion.
If the MRO determines that the
donor has violated the FFD policy without having discussed the positive, adulterated, substituted, dilute, or invalid test result or other occurrence directly with the donor, the donor may, on subsequent notification of the MRO determination and within 30 days of that notification, present to the MRO information documenting the circumstances, including, but not limited to, serious illness or injury, which unavoidably prevented the donor from being contacted by the MRO or a representative of the licensee or other entity, or from contacting the MRO in a timely manner. On the basis of this information, the MRO may reopen the procedure for determining whether the donor's test result or other occurrence is an FFD policy violation and permit the individual to present information related to the issue. The MRO may modify the initial determination based on an evaluation of the information provided.
(f)
Review of invalid specimens.
(1) If the HHS-certified laboratory reports an invalid result, the MRO shall consult with the laboratory to determine whether additional testing by another HHS-certified laboratory may be useful in determining and reporting a positive or adulterated test result. If the MRO and the laboratory agree that further testing would be useful, the HHS-certified laboratory shall forward the specimen to a second laboratory for additional testing.
(2) If the MRO and the laboratory agree that further testing would not be useful and there is no technical explanation for the result, the MRO shall contact the donor and determine whether there is an acceptable medical explanation for the invalid result. If there is an acceptable medical explanation, the MRO shall report to the licensee or other entity that the test result is not an FFD policy violation, but that a negative test result was not obtained. If the medical reason for the invalid result is, in the opinion of the MRO, a temporary condition, the licensee or other entity shall collect a second urine specimen from the donor as soon as reasonably practical and rely on the MRO's review of the test results from the second collection. The second specimen collected for the purposes of this paragraph may not be collected under direct observation. If the medical reason for the invalid result would similarly affect the testing of another urine specimen, the MRO may authorize an alternative method for drug testing. Licensees and other entities may not impose sanctions for an invalid test result due to a medical condition.
(3) If the MRO and the laboratory agree that further testing would not be useful and there is no legitimate technical or medical explanation, and the invalid result is based on pH in the range of 9.0 to 9.5, the MRO shall consider whether there is evidence of elapsed time, exposure of the specimen to high temperature, or both that could account for the pH value. If an acceptable explanation exists for the invalid test result due to pH, based on objective and sufficient information, that elapsed time, high temperature, or both caused the high pH and donor action did not result in the invalid pH result, the MRO shall report a cancelled test result to the licensee or other entity, cancel the test result, and direct the licensee or other entity to collect a second urine specimen from the donor as soon as reasonably practicable. The second specimen collected may not be collected under direct observation.
(4) If the MRO and the laboratory agree that further testing would not be useful and there is no legitimate technical or medical explanation for the invalid test result, the MRO shall require that a second collection take place as soon as practical under direct observation. The licensee or other entity shall rely on the MRO's review of the test results from the directly observed collection.
(g)
Review of dilute specimens.
(1) If the HHS-certified laboratory reports that a specimen is dilute and that drugs or drug metabolites were detected in the specimen at or above the cutoff levels specified in this part or the licensee's or other entity's more stringent cutoff levels, and the MRO determines that there is no legitimate medical explanation for the presence of the drugs or drug metabolites in the specimen, and a clinical examination, if required under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, has been conducted, the
MRO shall determine that the drug test results are positive and that the donor has violated the FFD policy.
(2) If the results of the special analysis testing required by § 26.163(a)(2) are positive, the MRO determines that there is no legitimate medical explanation for the presence of the drug(s) or drug metabolite(s) in the specimen, and a clinical examination, if required under paragraph (g)(3) of this section, has been conducted under paragraph (j) of this section, the MRO shall determine whether the positive and dilute specimen is a refusal to test. If the MRO does not have sufficient reason to believe that the positive and dilute specimen is a subversion attempt, he or she shall determine that the drug test results are positive and that the donor has violated the FFD policy. When determining whether the donor has diluted the specimen in a subversion attempt, the MRO shall also consider the following circumstances, if applicable:
(i) The donor has presented, at this or a previous collection, a urine specimen that the HHS-certified laboratory reported as being substituted, adulterated, or invalid to the MRO and the MRO determined that there is no adequate technical or medical explanation for the result;
(ii) The donor has presented a urine specimen of 30 mL or more that falls outside the required temperature range, even if a subsequent directly observed collection was performed; or
(iii) The collector observed conduct indicating an attempt to dilute the specimen.
(3) If the drugs detected in a dilute specimen are opioids (
i.e.,
morphine and/or codeine), or if the drugs or metabolites detected indicate the use of prescription or over-the-counter medications, before determining that the donor has violated the FFD policy under paragraph (a) of this section, the MRO or his/her designee, who shall also be a licensed physician with knowledge of the clinical signs of drug abuse, shall conduct the clinical examination for abuse of these substances that is required in paragraph (j) of this section. An evaluation for clinical evidence of abuse is not required if the laboratory confirms the presence of 6-AM (
i.e.
, the presence of this metabolite is proof of heroin use) in the dilute specimen.
(4) An MRO review is not required for specimens that the HHS-certified laboratory reports as negative and dilute. The licensee or other entity may not take any administrative actions or impose any sanctions on a donor who submits a negative and dilute specimen.
(h)
Review of substituted specimens.
(1) If the HHS-certified laboratory reports a specimen as substituted (
i.e.
, the creatinine concentration is less than 2 mg/dL and the specific gravity is less than or equal to 1.0010 or equal to or greater than 1.0200), the MRO shall contact the donor and offer the donor an opportunity to provide a legitimate medical explanation for the substituted result. The burden of proof resides solely with the donor, who must provide legitimate medical evidence within 5 business days that he or she produced the specimen for which the HHS-certified laboratory reported a substituted result. Any medical evidence must be submitted through a physician who is experienced and qualified in the medical issues involved, as verified by the MRO. Claims of excessive hydration, or claims based on unsubstantiated personal characteristics, including, but not limited to, race, gender, diet, and body weight, are not acceptable evidence without medical studies which demonstrate that the donor did produce the laboratory result.
(2) If the MRO determines that there is no legitimate medical explanation for the substituted test result, the MRO shall report to the licensee or other entity that the specimen was substituted.
(3) If the MRO determines that there is a legitimate medical explanation for the substituted test result and no drugs or drug metabolites were detected in the specimen, the MRO shall report to the licensee or other entity that no FFD policy violation has occurred.
(i)
Review of adulterated specimens.
(1) If the HHS-certified laboratory reports a specimen as adulterated with a specific substance, the MRO shall contact the donor and offer the donor an opportunity to provide a legitimate medical explanation for the adulterated result. The burden of proof resides solely with the donor, who must provide legitimate
medical evidence within 5 business days that he or she produced the adulterated result. Any medical evidence must be submitted through a physician experienced and qualified in the medical issues involved, as verified by the MRO.
(2) If the MRO determines there is no legitimate medical explanation for the adulterated test result, the MRO shall report to the licensee or other entity that the specimen is adulterated.
(3) If the MRO determines that there is a legitimate medical explanation for the adulterated test result and no drugs or drug metabolites were detected in the specimen, the MRO shall report to the licensee or other entity that no FFD policy violation has occurred.
(j)
Review for opioids and prescription and over-the-counter medications.
(1) If the MRO determines that there is no legitimate medical explanation for a positive confirmatory test result for opioids (
i.e.,
morphine and/or codeine) and before the MRO determines that the test result is a violation of the FFD policy, the MRO or his/her designee, who shall also be a licensed physician with knowledge of the clinical signs of drug abuse, shall determine that there is clinical evidence, in addition to the positive confirmatory test result, that the donor has illegally used morphine and/or codeine.This requirement does not apply if the laboratory confirms the presence of 6-AM (
i.e.
, the presence of this metabolite is proof of heroin use), or the morphine or codeine concentration is equal to or greater than 15,000 ng/mL and the donor does not present a legitimate medical explanation for the presence of morphine or codeine at or above this concentration. The MRO may not determine that the consumption of food products is a legitimate medical explanation for the presence of morphine or codeine at or above this concentration.
(2) If the MRO determines that there is no legitimate medical explanation for a positive confirmatory test result for drugs other than opioids that are commonly prescribed or included in over-the-counter preparations (e.g., benzodiazepines in the first case, barbiturates in the second) and are listed in the licensee's or other entity's panel of substances to be tested, the MRO shall determine whether there is clinical evidence, in addition to the positive confirmatory test result, of abuse of any of these substances or their derivatives.
(3) If the MRO determines that the donor has used another individual's prescription medication, including a medication containing opioids (
i.e.,
morphine and/or codeine), and no clinical evidence of drug abuse is found, the MRO shall report to the licensee or other entity that the donor has misused a prescription medication. If the MRO determines that the donor has used another individual's prescription medication and clinical evidence of drug abuse is found, the MRO shall report to the licensee that the donor has violated the FFD policy.
(4) In determining whether a legitimate medical explanation exists for a positive confirmatory test result for opioids or prescription or over-the-counter medications, the MRO may consider the use of a medication from a foreign country. The MRO shall exercise professional judgment consistently with the following principles:
(i) There can be a legitimate medical explanation only with respect to a drug that is obtained legally in a foreign country;
(ii) There can be a legitimate medical explanation only with respect to a drug that has a legitimate medical use. Use of a drug of abuse (e.g., heroin, PCP) or any other substance that cannot be viewed as having a legitimate medical use can never be the basis for a legitimate medical explanation, even if the drug is obtained legally in a foreign country; and
(iii) Use of the drug can form the basis of a legitimate medical explanation only if it is used consistently with its proper and intended medical purpose.
(5) The MRO may not consider consumption of food products, supplements, or other preparations containing substances that may result in a positive confirmatory drug test result, including, but not limited to supplements containing hemp products or coca leaf tea, as a legitimate medical explanation for the presence of drugs
or drug metabolites in the urine specimen above the cutoff levels specified in § 26.163 or a licensee's or other entity's more stringent cutoff levels.
(6) The MRO may not consider the use of any drug contained in Schedule I of section 202 of the Controlled Substances Act [21 U.S.C. 812] as a legitimate medical explanation for a positive confirmatory drug test result, even if the drug may be legally prescribed and used under State law.
(k)
Results consistent with legitimate drug use.
If the MRO determines that there is a legitimate medical explanation for a positive confirmatory drug test result, and that the use of a drug identified through testing was in the manner and at the dosage prescribed, and the results do not reflect a lack of reliability or trustworthiness, then the donor has not violated the licensee's or other entity's FFD policy. The MRO shall report to the licensee or other entity that no FFD policy violation has occurred. The MRO shall further evaluate the positive confirmatory test result and medical explanation to determine whether use of the drug and/or the medical condition poses a potential risk to public health and safety as a result of the individual being impaired while on duty. If the MRO determines that such a risk exists, he or she shall ensure that a determination of fitness is performed.
(l)
Retesting authorized.
Should the MRO question the accuracy or scientific validity of a positive, adulterated, substituted, or invalid test result, only the MRO is authorized to order retesting of an aliquot of the original specimen or the analysis of any split specimen (Bottle B) in order to determine whether the FFD policy has been violated. Retesting must be performed by a second HHS-certified laboratory. The MRO is also the only individual who may authorize a reanalysis of an aliquot of the original specimen or an analysis of any split specimen (Bottle B) in response to a request from the donor tested.
(m)
Result scientifically insufficient.
Based on the review of inspection and audit reports, quality control data, multiple specimens, and other pertinent results, the MRO may determine that a positive, adulterated, substituted or invalid test result is scientifically insufficient for further action and may declare that a drug or validity test result is not an FFD policy violation, but that a negative test result was not obtained. In this situation, the MRO may request retesting of the original specimen before making this decision. The MRO is neither expected nor required to request such retesting, unless in the sole opinion of the MRO, such retesting is warranted. The MRO may request that the reanalysis be performed by the same laboratory, or that an aliquot of the original specimen be sent for reanalysis to another HHS-certified laboratory. The licensee testing facility and the HHS-certified laboratory shall assist in this review process, as requested by the MRO, by making available the individual(s) responsible for day-to-day management of the licensee testing facility or the HHS-certified laboratory, or other individuals who are forensic toxicologists or who have equivalent forensic experience in urine drug testing, to provide specific consultation as required by the MRO.
(n)
Evaluating results from a second laboratory.
After a second laboratory tests an aliquot of a single specimen or the split (Bottle B) specimen, the MRO shall take the following actions if the second laboratory reports the following results:
(1) If the second laboratory reconfirms any positive test results, the MRO may report an FFD policy violation to the licensee or other entity;
(2) If the second laboratory reconfirms any adulterated, substituted, or invalid validity test results, the MRO may report an FFD policy violation to the licensee or other entity;
(3) If the second laboratory does not reconfirm the positive test results, the MRO shall report that no FFD policy violation has occurred; or
(4) If the second laboratory does not reconfirm the adulterated, substituted, or invalid validity test results, the MRO shall report that no FFD policy violation has occurred.
(o)
Re-authorization after a first violation for a positive test result.
The MRO is responsible for reviewing drug test results from an individual whose authorization was terminated or denied for a
first violation of the FFD policy involving a confirmed positive drug test result and who is being considered for re-authorization. In order to determine whether subsequent positive confirmatory drug test results represent new drug use or remaining metabolites from the drug use that initially resulted in the FFD policy violation, the MRO shall request from the HHS-certified laboratory, and the laboratory shall provide, quantitation of the test results and other information necessary to make the determination. If the drug for which the individual first tested positive was marijuana and the confirmatory assay for delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid yields a positive result, the MRO shall determine whether the confirmatory test result indicates further marijuana use since the first positive test result, or whether the test result is consistent with the level of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid that would be expected if no further marijuana use had occurred. If the test result indicates that no further marijuana use has occurred since the first positive test result, then the MRO shall declare the drug test result as negative.
(p)
Time to complete MRO review.
The MRO shall complete his or her review of positive, adulterated, substituted, and invalid test results and, in instances when the MRO determines that there is no legitimate medical explanation for the test result(s), notify the licensee's or other entity's designated representative within 10 business days of an initial positive, adulterated, substituted, or invalid test result. The MRO shall notify the licensee or other entity of the results of his or her review in writing and in a manner designed to ensure the confidentiality of the information.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71462, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.187
Substance abuse expert.
(a)
Implementation.
Any SAEs on whom licensees and other entities rely to make determinations of fitness under this part shall meet the requirements of this section. An MRO who meets the requirements of this section may serve as both an MRO and as an SAE.
(b)
Credentials.
An SAE shall have at least one of the following credentials:
(1) A licensed physician;
(2) A licensed or certified social worker;
(3) A licensed or certified psychologist;
(4) A licensed or certified employee assistance professional; or
(5) An alcohol and drug abuse counselor certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors Certification Commission or by the International Certification Reciprocity Consortium/Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse.
(c)
Basic knowledge.
An SAE shall be knowledgeable in the following areas:
(1) Demonstrated knowledge of and clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol and controlled-substance abuse disorders;
(2) Knowledge of the SAE function as it relates to the public's interests in the duties performed by the individuals who are subject to this subpart; and
(3) Knowledge of this part and any changes thereto.
(d)
Qualification training.
SAEs shall receive qualification training on the following subjects:
(1) Background, rationale, and scope of this part;
(2) Key drug testing requirements of this part, including specimen collection, laboratory testing, MRO review, and problems in drug testing;
(3) Key alcohol testing requirements of this part, including specimen collection, the testing process, and problems in alcohol tests;
(4) SAE qualifications and prohibitions;
(5) The role of the SAE in making determinations of fitness and the return-to-duty process, including the initial evaluation, referrals for education and/or treatment, the followup evaluation, continuing treatment recommendations, and the followup testing plan;
(6) Procedures for SAE consultation and communication with licensees or other entities, MROs, and treatment providers;
(7) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this part; and
(8) Issues that SAEs confront in carrying out their duties under this part.
(e)
Continuing education.
During each 3-year period following completion of initial qualification training, the SAE shall complete continuing education consisting of at least 12 continuing professional education hours relevant to performing SAE functions.
(1) This continuing education must include material concerning new technologies, interpretations, recent guidance, rule changes, and other information about developments in SAE practice pertaining to this part, since the time the SAE met the qualification training requirements of this section.
(2) Continuing education activities must include documented assessment tools to assist in determining that the SAE has learned the material.
(f)
Documentation.
The SAE shall maintain documentation showing that he or she currently meets all requirements of this section. The SAE shall provide this documentation on request to NRC representatives, licensees, or other entities who are relying on or contemplating relying on the SAE's services, and to other individuals and entities, as required by § 26.37.
(g)
Responsibilities and prohibitions.
The SAE shall evaluate individuals who have violated the substance abuse provisions of an FFD policy and make recommendations concerning education, treatment, return to duty, followup drug and alcohol testing, and aftercare. The SAE is not an advocate for the licensee or other entity, or the individual. The SAE's function is to protect public health and safety and the common defense and security by professionally evaluating the individual and recommending appropriate education/treatment, follow-up tests, and aftercare.
(1) The SAE is authorized to make determinations of fitness in at least the following three circumstances:
(i) When potentially disqualifying FFD information has been identified regarding an individual who has applied for authorization under this part;
(ii) When an individual has violated the substance abuse provisions of a licensee's or other entity's FFD policy; and
(iii) When an individual may be impaired by alcohol, prescription or over-the-counter medications, or illegal drugs.
(2) After determining the best recommendation for assisting the individual, the SAE shall serve as a referral source to assist the individual's entry into an education and/or treatment program.
(i) To prevent the appearance of a conflict of interest, the SAE may not refer an individual requiring assistance to his or her private practice or to a person or organization from whom the SAE receives payment or in which the SAE has a financial interest. The SAE is precluded from making referrals to entities with whom the SAE is financially associated.
(ii) There are four exceptions to the prohibitions contained in the preceding paragraph. The SAE may refer an individual to any of the following providers of assistance, regardless of his or her relationship with them:
(A) A public agency (e.g., treatment facility) operated by a state, county, or municipality;
(B) A person or organization under contract to the licensee or other entity to provide alcohol or drug treatment and/or education services (e.g., the licensee's or other entity's contracted treatment provider);
(C) The sole source of therapeutically appropriate treatment under the individual's health insurance program (e.g., the single substance abuse in-patient treatment program made available by the individual's insurance coverage plan); or
(D) The sole source of therapeutically appropriate treatment reasonably available to the individual (e.g., the only treatment facility or education program reasonably located within the general commuting area).
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 83 FR 58464, Nov. 20, 2018]
§ 26.189
Determination of fitness.
(a) A determination of fitness is the process entered when there are indications that an individual specified in § 26.4(a) through (e), and at the licensee's or other entity's discretion as specified in § 26.4(f) and (g), may be in
violation of the licensee's or other entity's FFD policy or is otherwise unable to safely and competently perform his or her duties. A determination of fitness must be made by a licensed or certified professional who is appropriately qualified and has the necessary clinical expertise, as verified by the licensee or other entity, to evaluate the specific fitness issues presented by the individual. A professional called on by the licensee or other entity may not perform a determination of fitness regarding fitness issues that are outside of his or her specific areas of expertise. The types of professionals and the fitness issues for which they are qualified to make determinations of fitness include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) An SAE who meets the requirements of § 26.187 may determine the fitness of an individual who may have engaged in substance abuse and shall determine an individual's fitness to be granted authorization following an unfavorable termination or denial of authorization under this part, but may not be qualified to assess the fitness of an individual who may have experienced mental illness, significant emotional stress, or other mental or physical conditions that may cause impairment but are unrelated to substance abuse, unless the SAE has additional qualifications for addressing those fitness issues;
(2) A clinical psychologist may determine the fitness of an individual who may have experienced mental illness, significant emotional stress, or cognitive or psychological impairment from causes unrelated to substance abuse, but may not be qualified to assess the fitness of an individual who may have a substance abuse disorder, unless the psychologist is also an SAE;
(3) A psychiatrist may determine the fitness of an individual who is taking psychoactive medications consistently with one or more valid prescription(s), but may not be qualified to assess potential impairment attributable to substance abuse, unless the psychiatrist has had specific training to diagnose and treat substance abuse disorders;
(4) A physician may determine the fitness of an individual who may be ill, injured, fatigued, taking medications in accordance with one or more valid prescriptions, or using over-the-counter medications, but may not be qualified to assess the fitness of an individual who may have a substance abuse disorder, unless the physician is also an SAE; and
(5) As a physician with specialized training, the MRO may determine the fitness of an individual who may have engaged in substance abuse or may be ill, injured, fatigued, taking medications under one or more valid prescriptions, and/or using over-the-counter medications, but may not be qualified to assess an individual's fitness to be granted authorization following an unfavorable termination or denial of authorization under this part, unless the MRO is also an SAE.
(b) A determination of fitness must be made in at least the following circumstances:
(1) When there is an acceptable medical explanation for a positive, adulterated, substituted, or invalid test result, but there is a basis for believing that the individual could be impaired while on duty;
(2) Before making return-to-duty recommendations after an individual's authorization has been terminated unfavorably or denied under a licensee's or other entity's FFD policy;
(3) Before an individual is granted authorization when potentially disqualifying FFD information is identified that has not previously been evaluated by another licensee or entity who is subject to this subpart; and
(4) When potentially disqualifying FFD information is otherwise identified and the licensee's or other entity's reviewing official concludes that a determination of fitness is warranted under § 26.69.
(c) A determination of fitness that is conducted for cause (
i.e.
, because of observed behavior or a physical condition) must be conducted through face-to-face interaction between the subject individual and the professional making the determination. Electronic means of communication may not be used.
(1) If there is neither conclusive evidence of an FFD policy violation nor a significant basis for concern that the individual may be impaired while on
duty, then the individual must be determined to be fit for duty.
(2) If there is no conclusive evidence of an FFD policy violation but there is a significant basis for concern that the individual may be impaired while on duty, then the subject individual must be determined to be unfit for duty. This result does not constitute a violation of this part nor of the licensee's or other entity's FFD policy, and no sanctions may be imposed. However, the professional who made the determination of fitness shall consult with the licensee's or other entity's management personnel to identify the actions required to ensure that any possible limiting condition does not represent a threat to workplace or public health and safety. Licensee or other entity management personnel shall implement the required actions. When appropriate, the subject individual may also be referred to the EAP.
(d) Neither the individual nor licensees and other entities may seek a second determination of fitness if a determination of fitness under this part has already been performed by a qualified professional employed by or under contract to the licensee or other entity. After the initial determination of fitness has been made, the professional may modify his or her evaluation and recommendations based on new or additional information from other sources including, but not limited to, the subject individual, another licensee or entity, or staff of an education or treatment program. Unless the professional who made the initial determination of fitness is no longer employed by or under contract to the licensee or other entity, only that professional is authorized to modify the evaluation and recommendations. When reasonably practicable, licensees and other entities shall assist in arranging for consultation between the new professional and the professional who is no longer employed by or under contract to the licensee or other entity, to ensure continuity and consistency in the recommendations and their implementation.

# Subpart I—Managing Fatigue
§ 26.201
Applicability.
The requirements in this subpart apply to the licensees and other entities identified in § 26.3(a), and, if applicable, (c) and (d). The requirements in §§ 26.203 and 26.211 apply to the individuals identified in § 26.4 (a) through (c). In addition, the requirements in § 26.205 through § 26.209 apply to the individuals identified in § 26.4(a).
§ 26.203
General provisions.
(a)
Policy.
Licensees shall establish a policy for the management of fatigue for all individuals who are subject to the licensee's FFD program and incorporate it into the written policy required in § 26.27(b).
(b)
Procedures.
In addition to the procedures required in § 26.27(c), licensees shall develop, implement, and maintain procedures that—
(1) Describe the process to be followed when any individual identified in § 26.4(a) through (c) makes a self-declaration that he or she is not fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties for any part of a working tour as a result of fatigue. The procedure must—
(i) Describe the individual's and licensee's rights and responsibilities related to self-declaration;
(ii) Describe requirements for establishing controls and conditions under which an individual may be permitted or required to perform work after that individual declares that he or she is not fit due to fatigue; and
(iii) Describe the process to be followed if the individual disagrees with the results of a fatigue assessment that is required under § 26.211(a)(2);
(2) Describe the process for implementing the controls required under § 26.205 for the individuals who are performing the duties listed in § 26.4(a);
(3) Describe the process to be followed in conducting fatigue assessments under § 26.211; and
(4) Describe the disciplinary actions that the licensee may impose on an individual following a fatigue assessment, and the conditions and considerations for taking those disciplinary actions.
(c)
Training and examinations.
Licensees shall add the following KAs to the content of the training that is required in § 26.29(a) and the comprehensive examination required in § 26.29(b):
(1) Knowledge of the contributors to worker fatigue, circadian variations in alertness and performance, indications and risk factors for common sleep disorders, shiftwork strategies for obtaining adequate rest, and the effective use of fatigue countermeasures; and
(2) Ability to identify symptoms of worker fatigue and contributors to decreased alertness in the workplace.
(d)
Recordkeeping.
Licensees shall retain the following records for at least 3 years or until the completion of all related legal proceedings, whichever is later:
(1) Records of work hours for individuals who are subject to the work hour controls in § 26.205;
(2) For licensees implementing the requirements of § 26.205(d)(3), records of shift schedules and shift cycles, or, for licensees implementing the requirements of § 26.205(d)(7), records of shift schedules and records showing the beginning and end times and dates of all averaging periods, of individuals who are subject to the work hour controls in § 26.205;
(3) The documentation of waivers that is required in § 26.207(a)(4), including the bases for granting the waivers;
(4) The documentation of work hour reviews that is required in § 26.205(e)(3) and (e)(4); and
(5) The documentation of fatigue assessments that is required in § 26.211(g).
(e)
Reporting.
Licensees shall include the following information in a standard format in the annual FFD program performance report required under § 26.717:
(1) A summary for each nuclear power plant site of all instances during the previous calendar year when the licensee waived one or more of the work hour controls specified in § 26.205(d)(1) through (d)(5)(i) and (d)(7) for individuals described in § 26.4(a). The summary must include only those waivers under which work was performed. If it was necessary to waive more than one work hour control during any single extended work period, the summary of instances must include each of the work hour controls that were waived during the period. For each category of individuals specified in § 26.4(a), the licensee shall report:
(i) The number of instances when each applicable work hour control specified in § 26.205(d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iii), (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii), (d)(3)(i) through (d)(3)(v), and (d)(7) was waived for individuals not working on outage activities;
(ii) The number of instances when each applicable work hour control specified in § 26.205(d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iii), (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii), (d)(3)(i) through (d)(3)(v), (d)(4) and (d)(5)(i), and (d)(7) was waived for individuals working on outage activities; and
(iii) A summary that shows the distribution of waiver use among the individuals within each category of individuals identified in § 26.4(a) (e.g., a table that shows the number of individuals who received only one waiver during the reporting period, the number of individuals who received a total of two waivers during the reporting period).
(2) A summary of corrective actions, if any, resulting from the analyses of these data, including fatigue assessments.
(f)
Audits.
Licensees shall audit the management of worker fatigue as required by § 26.41.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 43548, July 21, 2011]
§ 26.205
Work hours.
(a)
Individuals subject to work hour controls.
Any individual who performs duties identified in § 26.4(a)(1) through (a)(5) shall be subject to the requirements of this section.
(b)
Calculating work hours.
For the purposes of this section, a licensee shall calculate the work hours of individuals who are subject to this section as the amount of time the individuals perform duties for the licensee. Except as permitted by paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, the calculated work hours must include all time performing duties for the licensee, including all within-shift break times and rest periods during which there are no reasonable opportunities or accommodations appropriate for restorative sleep.
(1) Shift turnover. Licensees may exclude shift turnover from the calculation of an individual's work hours. Shift turnover includes only those activities that are necessary to safely transfer information and responsibilities between two or more individuals between shifts. Shift turnover activities may include, but are not limited to, discussions of the status of plant equipment, and the status of ongoing activities, such as extended tests of safety systems and components. Licensees may not exclude work hours worked during turnovers between individuals within a shift period due to rotations or relief within a shift. Activities that licensees may not exclude from work hours calculations also include, but are not limited to, shift holdovers to cover for late arrivals of incoming shift members; early arrivals of individuals for meetings, training, or pre-shift briefings for special evolutions; and holdovers for interviews needed for event investigations.
(2) Within-shift break and rest periods. Licensees may exclude from the calculation of an individual's work hours only that portion of a break or rest period during which there is a reasonable opportunity and accommodations for restorative sleep (e.g., a nap).
(3) Beginning or resuming duties subject to work hour controls. If an individual begins or resumes performing for the licensee any of the duties listed in § 26.4(a) during the calculation period, the licensee shall include in the calculation of the individual's work hours all work hours worked for the licensee, including hours worked performing duties that are not listed in § 26.4(a), and control the individual's work hours under the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
(4) Unannounced emergency preparedness exercises and drills. Licensees may exclude from the calculation of an individual's work hours the time the individual works unscheduled work hours for the purpose of participating in the actual conduct of an unannounced emergency preparedness exercise or drill.
(5) Incidental duties performed off site. Licensees may exclude from the calculation of an individual's work hours unscheduled work performed off site (e.g., technical assistance provided by telephone from an individual's home), provided the total duration of the work does not exceed a nominal 30 minutes during any single break period. For the purposes of compliance with the minimum break requirements of § 26.205(d)(2), and the minimum days off requirements of § 26.205(d)(3) through (d)(5) or the maximum average work hours requirements of § 26.205(d)(7), such duties do not constitute work periods, work shifts, or hours worked.
(c)
Work hours scheduling.
Licensees shall schedule the work hours of individuals who are subject to this section consistent with the objective of preventing impairment from fatigue due to the duration, frequency, or sequencing of successive shifts.
(d)
Work hour controls.
Licensees shall control the work hours of individuals who are subject to this section.
(1) Except as permitted in § 26.207, licensees shall ensure that any individual's work hours do not exceed the following limits:
(i) 16 work hours in any 24-hour period;
(ii) 26 work hours in any 48-hour period; and
(iii) 72 work hours in any 7-day period.
(2) Licensees shall ensure that individuals have, at a minimum, the rest breaks specified in this paragraph. For the purposes of this subpart, a break is defined as an interval of time that falls between successive work periods, during which the individual does not perform any duties for the licensee other than one period of shift turnover at either the beginning or end of a shift but not both. Except as permitted in § 26.207, licensees shall ensure that individuals have, at a minimum—
(i) A 10-hour break between successive work periods or an 8-hour break between successive work periods when a break of less than 10 hours is necessary to accommodate a crew's scheduled transition between work schedules or shifts; and
(ii) A 34-hour break in any 9-day period.
(3) Licensees shall either ensure that individuals have, at a minimum, the number of days off specified in this
paragraph, or comply with the requirements for maximum average workhours in § 26.205(d)(7). For the purposes of this section, a day off is defined as a calendar day during which an individual does not start a work shift. For the purposes of calculating the average number of days off required in this paragraph, the duration of the shift cycle may not exceed 6 weeks.
(i) Individuals who are working 8-hour shift schedules shall have at least 1 day off per week, averaged over the shift cycle;
(ii) Individuals who are working 10-hour shift schedules shall have at least 2 days off per week, averaged over the shift cycle;
(iii) Individuals who are working 12-hour shift schedules while performing the duties described in § 26.4(a)(1) through (a)(3) shall have at least 2.5 days off per week, averaged over the shift cycle;
(iv) Individuals who are working 12-hour shift schedules while performing the duties described in § 26.4(a)(4) shall have at least 2 days off per week, averaged over the shift cycle; and
(v) Individuals who are working 12-hour shift schedules while performing the duties described in § 26.4(a)(5) shall have at least 3 days off per week, averaged over the shift cycle.
(4) During the first 60 days of a unit outage, licensees need not meet the requirements of § 26.205(d)(3) or (d)(7) for individuals specified in § 26.4(a)(1) through (a)(4), while those individuals are working on outage activities. However, the licensee shall ensure that the individuals specified in § 26.4(a)(1) through (a)(3) have at least 3 days off in each successive (
i.e.
, non-rolling) 15-day period and that the individuals specified in § 26.4(a)(4) have at least 1 day off in any 7-day period;
(5) During the first 60 days of a unit outage, security system outage, or increased threat condition, licensees shall control the hours worked by individuals specified in § 26.4(a)(5) as follows:
(i) During the first 60 days of a unit outage or a planned security system outage, licensees need not meet the requirements of § 26.205(d)(3) or (d)(7). However, licensees shall ensure that these individuals have at least 4 days off in each successive (
i.e.
, non-rolling) 15-day period; and
(ii) During the first 60 days of an unplanned security system outage or increased threat condition, licensees need not meet the requirements of § 26.205(d)(3), (d)(5)(i), or (d)(7).
(6) The 60-day periods in paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this section may be extended for each individual in 7-day increments for each non-overlapping 7-day period the individual has worked not more than 48 hours during the unit or security system outage or increased threat condition, as applicable.
(7) Licensees may, as an alternative to complying with the minimum days off requirements in § 26.205(d)(3), comply with the requirements for maximum average work hours in this paragraph.
(i) Individuals may not work more than a weekly average of 54 hours, calculated using an averaging period of up to six (6) weeks, which advances by 7 consecutive calendar days at the finish of every averaging period.
(ii) For purposes of this section, when an individual's work shift starts at the end of a calendar day and concludes during the next calendar day, the licensee shall either consider the hours worked during that entire shift as if they were all worked on the day the shift started, or attribute the hours to the calendar days on which the hours were actually worked.
(iii) Each licensee shall state, in its FFD policy and procedures required by § 26.27 and § 26.203(a) and (b), the work hour counting system in § 26.205(d)(7)(ii) the licensee is using.
(8) Each licensee shall state, in its FFD policy and procedures required by § 26.27 and § 26.203(a) and (b), the requirements with which the licensee is complying: the minimum days off requirements in § 26.205(d)(3) or maximum average work hours requirements in § 26.205(d)(7).
(e)
Reviews.
Licensees shall evaluate the effectiveness of their control of work hours of individuals who are subject to this section. Licensees shall conduct the reviews once per calendar year. If any plant or security system outages or increased threat conditions occurred since the licensee completed the most recent review, the licensee
shall include in the review an evaluation of the control of work hours during the outages or increased threat conditions. Licensees shall complete the review within 30 days of the end of the review period. Licensees shall—
(1) Review the actual work hours and performance of individuals who are subject to this section for consistency with the requirements of § 26.205(c). At a minimum, this review must address—
(i) Individuals whose actual hours worked during the review period exceeded an average of 54 hours per week in any shift cycle while the individuals' work hours are subject to the requirements of § 26.205(d)(3) or in any averaging period of up to 6 weeks, using the same averaging period durations that the licensee uses to control the individuals' work hours, while the individuals' work hours are subject to the requirements of § 26.205(d)(7);
(ii) Individuals who were granted more than one waiver during the review period; and
(iii) Individuals who were assessed for fatigue under § 26.211 during the review period.
(2) Review individuals' hours worked and the waivers under which work was performed to evaluate staffing adequacy for all jobs subject to the work hour controls of this section;
(3) Document the methods used to conduct the review and the results of the review; and
(4) Record, trend, and correct, under the licensee's corrective action program, any problems identified in maintaining control of work hours consistent with the specific requirements and performance objectives of this part.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 43548, July 21, 2011]
§ 26.207
Waivers and exceptions.
(a)
Waivers.
Licensees may grant a waiver of one or more of the work hour controls in § 26.205(d)(1) through (d)(5)(i) and (d)(7), as follows:
(1) To grant a waiver, the licensee shall meet both of the following requirements:
(i) An operations shift manager determines that the waiver is necessary to mitigate or prevent a condition adverse to safety, or a security shift manager determines that the waiver is necessary to maintain site security, or a site senior-level manager with requisite signature authority makes either determination; and
(ii) A supervisor assesses the individual face to face and determines that there is reasonable assurance that the individual will be able to safely and competently perform his or her duties during the additional work period for which the waiver will be granted. The supervisor performing the assessment shall be trained as required by §§ 26.29 and 26.203(c) and shall be qualified to direct the work to be performed by the individual. If there is no supervisor on site who is qualified to direct the work, the assessment may be performed by a supervisor who is qualified to provide oversight of the work to be performed by the individual. At a minimum, the assessment must address the potential for acute and cumulative fatigue considering the individual's work history for at least the past 14 days, the potential for circadian degradations in alertness and performance considering the time of day for which the waiver will be granted, the potential for fatigue-related degradations in alertness and performance to affect risk-significant functions, and whether any controls and conditions must be established under which the individual will be permitted to perform work.
(2) To the extent practicable, licensees shall rely on the granting of waivers only to address circumstances that could not have been reasonably controlled;
(3) Licensees shall ensure that the timing of the face-to-face supervisory assessment that is required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section supports a valid assessment of the potential for worker fatigue during the time the individual will be performing work under the waiver. Licensees may not perform the face-to-face assessment more than 4 hours before the individual begins performing any work under the waiver; and
(4) Licensees shall document the bases for individual waivers. The documented basis for a waiver must include a description of the circumstances that necessitate the waiver, a statement of the scope of work and time period for
which the waiver is approved, and the bases for the determinations required in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(b)
Force-on-force tactical exercises.
For the purposes of compliance with the minimum days off requirements of § 26.205(d)(3) or the maximum average work hours requirements of § 26.205(d)(7), licensees may exclude shifts worked by security personnel during the actual conduct of NRC-evaluated force-on-force tactical exercises when calculating the individual's number of days off or hours worked, as applicable.
(c)
Common defense and security.
When informed in writing by the NRC that the requirements of § 26.205, or any subset thereof, are waived for security personnel to ensure the common defense and security, licensees need not meet the specified requirements of § 26.205 for the duration of the period defined by the NRC.
(d)
Plant emergencies.
Licensees need not meet the requirements of § 26.205(c) and (d) during declared emergencies, as defined in the licensee's emergency plan.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 43549, July 21, 2011]
§ 26.209
Self-declarations.
(a) If an individual is performing, or being assessed for, work under a waiver of one or more of the requirements contained in § 26.205(d)(1) through (d)(5)(i) and (d)(7) and declares that, due to fatigue, he or she is unable to safely and competently perform his or her duties, the licensee shall immediately stop the individual from performing any duties listed in § 26.4(a), except if the individual is required to continue performing those duties under other requirements of this chapter. If the subject individual must continue performing the duties listed in § 26.4(a) until relieved, the licensee shall immediately take action to relieve the individual.
(b) Following a self-declaration, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the licensee—
(1) May reassign the individual to duties other than those listed in § 26.4(a), but only if the results of a fatigue assessment, conducted under the requirements of § 26.211, indicate that the individual is fit to safely and competently perform those other duties; and
(2) Shall permit or require the individual to take a break of at least 10 hours before the individual returns to performing any duties listed in § 26.4(a).
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 43549, July 21, 2011]
§ 26.211
Fatigue assessments.
(a) Licensees shall ensure that fatigue assessments are conducted under the following conditions:
(1) For cause. In addition to any other test or determination of fitness that may be required under §§ 26.31(c) and 26.77, a fatigue assessment must be conducted in response to an observed condition of impaired individual alertness creating a reasonable suspicion that an individual is not fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties, except if the condition is observed during an individual's break period. If the observed condition is impaired alertness with no other behaviors or physical conditions creating a reasonable suspicion of possible substance abuse, then the licensee need only conduct a fatigue assessment. If the licensee has reason to believe that the observed condition is not due to fatigue, the licensee need not conduct a fatigue assessment;
(2) Self-declaration. A fatigue assessment must be conducted in response to an individual's self-declaration to his or her supervisor that he or she is not fit to safely and competently perform his or her duties for any part of a working tour because of fatigue, except if, following the self-declaration, the licensee permits or requires the individual to take a rest break of at least 10 hours before the individual returns to duty;
(3) Post-event. A fatigue assessment must be conducted in response to events requiring post-event drug and alcohol testing as specified in § 26.31(c). Licensees may not delay necessary medical treatment in order to conduct a fatigue assessment; and
(4) Followup. If a fatigue assessment was conducted for cause or in response to a self-declaration, and the licensee returns the individual to duty following a break of less than 10 hours in
duration, the licensee shall reassess the individual for fatigue as well as the need to implement controls and conditions before permitting the individual to resume performing any duties.
(b) Only supervisors and FFD program personnel who are trained under §§ 26.29 and 26.203(c) may conduct a fatigue assessment. The fatigue assessment must be conducted face to face with the individual whose alertness may be impaired.
(1) In the case of a fatigue assessment conducted for cause, the individual who observed the condition of impaired alertness may not conduct the fatigue assessment.
(2) In the case of a post-event fatigue assessment, the individual who conducts the fatigue assessment may not have—
(i) Performed or directed (on site) the work activities during which the event occurred;
(ii) Performed, within 24 hours before the event occurred, a fatigue assessment of the individuals who were performing or directing (on site) the work activities during which the event occurred; and
(iii) Evaluated or approved a waiver of one or more of the limits specified in § 26.205(d)(1) through (d)(5)(i) and (d)(7) for any of the individuals who were performing or directing (on site) the work activities during which the event occurred, if the event occurred while such individuals were performing work under that waiver.
(c) A fatigue assessment must provide the information necessary for management decisions and actions in response to the circumstance that initiated the assessment.
(1) At a minimum, the fatigue assessment must address the following factors:
(i) Acute fatigue;
(ii) Cumulative fatigue; and
(iii) Circadian variations in alertness and performance.
(2) Individuals shall provide complete and accurate information that may be required by the licensee to address the factors listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Licensees shall limit any inquiries to obtaining from the subject individual only the personal information that may be necessary to assess the factors listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d) The licensee may not conclude that fatigue has not or will not degrade the individual's ability to safely and competently perform his or her duties solely on the basis that the individual's work hours have not exceeded any of the limits specified in § 26.205(d)(1), the individual has had the minimum breaks required in § 26.205(d)(2) or minimum days off required in § 26.205(d)(3) through (d)(5), as applicable, or the individual's hours worked have not exceeded the maximum average number of hours worked in § 26.205(d)(7).
(e) Following a fatigue assessment, the licensee shall determine and implement the controls and conditions, if any, that are necessary to permit the individual to resume performing duties for the licensee, including the need for a break.
(f) Licensees shall document the results of any fatigue assessments conducted, the circumstances that necessitated the fatigue assessment, and any controls and conditions that were implemented.
(g) Licensees shall also prepare an annual summary for each nuclear power plant site of instances of fatigue assessments that were conducted during the previous calendar year for any individual identified in § 26.4(a) through (c). Each summary must include—
(1) The conditions under which each fatigue assessment was conducted (
i.e.
, self-declaration, for cause, post-event, followup);
(2) A statement of whether or not the individual was working on outage activities at the time of the self-declaration or condition resulting in the fatigue assessment;
(3) The category of duties the individual was performing, if the individual was performing the duties described in § 26.4(a)(1) through (a)(5) at the time of the self-declaration or condition resulting in the fatigue assessment; and
(4) The management actions, if any, resulting from each fatigue assessment.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 43549, July 21, 2011]
Subpart J [Reserved]

# Subpart K—FFD Program for Construction
§ 26.401
General.
(a) At the licensee's or other entity's discretion, a licensee or other entity in § 26.3(c) may establish, implement, and maintain an FFD program that meets the requirements of this subpart to apply to the individuals specified in § 26.4(f). If a licensee or other entity in § 26.3(c) does not elect to implement an FFD program that meets the requirements of this subpart, the individuals specified in § 26.4(f) shall be subject to an FFD program that meets the requirements of subparts A through H, N, and O of this part.
(b) Entities who intend to implement an FFD program under this subpart shall submit a description of the FFD program and its implementation as part of the license, permit, or limited work authorization application.
(c) Nothing in this subpart prohibits the licensees and other entities in § 26.3(c) from subjecting the individuals in § 26.4(f) to an FFD program that meets all of the requirements of this part or FFD program elements that meet all of the applicable requirements of this part.
§ 26.403
Written policy and procedures.
(a) Licensees and other entities who implement an FFD program under this subpart shall ensure that a clear, concise, written FFD policy statement is provided to individuals who are subject to the program. The policy statement must be written in sufficient detail to provide affected individuals with information on what is expected of them and what consequences may result from a lack of adherence to the policy.
(b) Licensees and other entities shall develop, implement, and maintain written procedures that address the following topics:
(1) The methods and techniques to be used in testing for drugs and alcohol, including procedures for protecting the privacy of an individual who provides a specimen, procedures for protecting the integrity of the specimen, and procedures used to ensure that the test results are valid and attributable to the correct individual;
(2) The immediate and followup actions that will be taken, and the procedures to be used, in those cases in which individuals who are subject to the FFD program are determined to have—
(i) Been involved in the use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs;
(ii) Consumed alcohol to excess before or while constructing or directing the construction of safety- or security-related SSCs, as determined by a test that accurately measures BAC;
(iii) Attempted to subvert the testing process by adulterating or diluting specimens (in vivo or in vitro), substituting specimens, or by any other means;
(iv) Refused to provide a specimen for analysis; or
(v) Had legal action taken relating to drug or alcohol use.
(3) The process to be followed if an individual's behavior or condition raises a concern regarding the possible use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs on or off site; the possible use or possession of alcohol while constructing or directing the construction of safety- or security-related SSCs; or impairment from any cause which in any way could adversely affect the individual's ability to safely and competently perform his or her duties.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 73941, Nov. 30, 2010]
§ 26.405
Drug and alcohol testing.
(a) To provide means to deter and detect substance abuse, licensees and other entities who implement an FFD program under this subpart shall perform drug and alcohol testing that complies with the requirements of this section.
(b) If the licensee or other entity elects to impose random testing for drugs and alcohol on the individuals identified in § 26.4(f), random testing must—
(1) Be administered in a manner that provides reasonable assurance that individuals are unable to predict the time periods during which specimens will be collected;
(2) Require individuals who are selected for random testing to report to the collection site as soon as reasonably practicable after notification,
within the time period specified in the FFD program policy;
(3) Ensure that all individuals in the population that is subject to random testing on a given day have an equal probability of being selected and tested; and
(4) Provide that an individual completing a test is immediately eligible for another random test.
(c) Individuals identified in § 26.4(f) shall be subject to drug and alcohol testing under the following conditions:
(1) Pre-assignment. Before assignment to construct or direct the construction of safety- or security-related SSCs;
(2) For-cause. In response to an individual's observed behavior or physical condition indicating possible substance abuse or after receiving credible information that an individual is engaging in substance abuse, as defined in § 26.5;
(3) Post-accident. As soon as practical after an event involving a human error that was committed by an individual specified in § 26.4(f), where the human error may have caused or contributed to the accident. The licensee or other entity shall test the individual(s) who committed the error(s), and need not test individuals who were affected by the event but whose actions likely did not cause or contribute to the event. The individual(s) who committed the human error(s) shall be tested if the event resulted in—
(i) A significant illness or personal injury to the individual to be tested or another individual, which within 4 hours after the event is recordable under the Department of Labor standards contained in 29 CFR 1904.7, and subsequent amendments thereto, and results in death, days away from work, restricted work, transfer to another job, medical treatment beyond first aid, loss of consciousness, or other significant illness or injury as diagnosed by a physician or other licensed health care professional, even if it does not result in death, days away from work, restricted work or job transfer, medical treatment beyond first aid, or loss of consciousness; or
(ii) Significant damage, during construction, to any safety-or security-related SSC; and
(4) Followup. As part of a followup plan to verify an individual's continued abstinence from substance abuse.
(d) At a minimum, licensees and other entities shall test specimens for marijuana metabolite, cocaine metabolite, opioids (codeine, morphine, 6-acetylmorphine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and oxymorphone), amphetamines (amphetamine, methamphetamine, methylenedioxymethamphetamine, and methylenedioxyamphetamine), phencyclidine, and alcohol at the cutoff levels specified in this part, or comparable cutoff levels if specimens other than urine are collected for drug testing. Urine specimens collected for drug testing must be subject to validity testing that includes testing for adulterants.
(e) The specimen collection and drug and alcohol testing procedures of FFD programs under this subpart must protect the donor's privacy and the integrity of the specimen, and implement stringent quality controls to ensure that test results are valid and attributable to the correct individual. At the licensee's or other entity's discretion, specimen collections and alcohol testing may be conducted at a local hospital or other facility under the specimen collection and alcohol testing requirements of 49 CFR Part 40 and subsequent amendments thereto.
(f) Testing of urine specimens for drugs and validity, except validity screening and initial drug and validity tests that may be performed by licensee testing facilities, must be performed in a laboratory that is certified by HHS for that purpose, consistent with its standards and procedures for certification. Any initial drug test performed by a licensee or other entity subject to this subpart must use an immunoassay that meets the requirements of the Food and Drug Administration for commercial distribution. Urine specimens that yield positive, adulterated, substituted, or invalid initial validity or drug test results must be subject to confirmatory testing by the HHS-certified laboratory, except for invalid specimens that cannot be tested. Other specimens that yield positive initial drug test results must be subject to confirmatory testing by a
laboratory that meets stringent quality control requirements that are comparable to those required for certification by the HHS.
(g) Licensees and other entities shall provide for an MRO review of positive, adulterated, substituted, and invalid confirmatory drug and validity test results to determine whether the donor has violated the FFD policy, before reporting the results to the individual designated by the licensee or other entity to perform the suitability and fitness evaluations required under § 26.419.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 73941, Nov. 30, 2010; 87 FR 71463, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.406
Fitness monitoring.
(a) The requirements in this section apply only if a licensee or other entity does not elect to subject the individuals specified in § 26.4(f) to random testing for drugs and alcohol under § 26.405(b).
(b) Licensees and other entities shall implement a fitness monitoring program to deter substance abuse and detect indications of possible use, sale, or possession of illegal drugs; use or possession of alcohol while constructing or directing the construction of safety- or security-related SSCs; or impairment from any cause that if left unattended may result in a risk to public health and safety or the common defense and security.
(c) Licensees and other entities shall establish procedures that monitors shall follow in response to the indications and actions specified in paragraph (b) of this section and train the monitors to implement the program.
(d) Licensees and other entities shall ensure that the fitness of individuals specified in § 26.4(f) is monitored effectively while the individuals are constructing or directing the construction of safety- and security-related SSCs, commensurate with the potential risk to public health and safety and the common defense and security imposed by the construction activity. To achieve this objective, licensees and other entities shall consider the number and placement of monitors required, the necessary ratio of monitors to individuals specified in § 26.4(f), and the frequency with which the individuals specified in § 26.4(f) shall be monitored while constructing or directing the construction of each safety- or security-related SSC.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 73941, Nov. 30, 2010]
§ 26.407
Behavioral observation.
While the individuals specified in § 26.4(f) are constructing or directing the construction of safety- or security-related SSCs, licensees and other entities shall ensure that these individuals are subject to behavioral observation, except if the licensee or other entity has implemented a fitness monitoring program under § 26.406.
[75 FR 73941, Nov. 30, 2010]
§ 26.409
Sanctions.
Licensees and other entities who implement an FFD program under this subpart shall establish sanctions for FFD policy violations that, at a minimum, prohibit the individuals specified in § 26.4(f) from being assigned to construct or direct the construction of safety- or security-related SSCs unless or until the licensee or other entity determines that the individual's condition or behavior does not pose a potential risk to public health and safety or the common defense and security.
[75 FR 73941, Nov. 30, 2010]
§ 26.411
Protection of information.
(a) Licensees and other entities who collect personal information about an individual for the purpose of complying with this subpart shall establish and maintain a system of files and procedures to protect the personal information. FFD programs must maintain and use such records with the highest regard for individual privacy.
(b) Licensees and other entities shall obtain a signed consent that authorizes the disclosure of the personal information collected and maintained under this subpart before disclosing the personal information, except for disclosures to the individuals and entities specified in § 26.37(b)(1) through (b)(6), (b)(8), and persons deciding matters under review in § 26.413.
§ 26.413
Review process.
Licensees and other entities who implement an FFD program under this subpart shall establish and implement procedures for the review of a determination that an individual in § 26.4(f) has violated the FFD policy. The procedure must provide for an objective and impartial review of the facts related to the determination that the individual has violated the FFD policy.
§ 26.415
Audits.
(a) Licensees and other entities who implement an FFD program under this subpart shall ensure that audits are performed to assure the continuing effectiveness of the FFD program, including FFD program elements that are provided by C/Vs, and the FFD programs of C/Vs that are accepted by the licensee or other entity.
(b) Each licensee and other entity shall ensure that these programs are audited at a frequency that assures their continuing effectiveness and that corrective actions are taken to resolve any problems identified. Licensees and entities may conduct joint audits, or accept audits of C/Vs conducted by others, so long as the audit addresses the relevant C/Vs' services.
(c) Licensees and other entities need not audit HHS-certified laboratories or the specimen collection and alcohol testing services that meet the requirements of 49 CFR Part 40, “Procedures for Department of Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Programs”, on which licensees and other entities may rely to meet the drug and alcohol testing requirements of this subpart.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71463, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.417
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(a) Licensees and other entities who implement FFD programs under this subpart shall ensure that records pertaining to the administration of the program, which may be stored and archived electronically, are maintained so that they are available for NRC inspection purposes and for any legal proceedings resulting from the administration of the program.
(b) Licensees and other entities shall make the following reports:
(1) Reports to the NRC Operations Center by telephone within 24 hours after the licensee or other entity discovers any intentional act that casts doubt on the integrity of the FFD program and any programmatic failure, degradation, or discovered vulnerability of the FFD program that may permit undetected drug or alcohol use or abuse by individuals who are subject to this subpart. These events must be reported under this subpart, rather than under the provisions of 10 CFR 73.1200; and
(2) Annual program performance reports for the FFD program.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 15880, Mar. 14, 2023]
§ 26.419
Suitability and fitness evaluations.
Licensees and other entities who implement FFD programs under this subpart shall develop, implement, and maintain procedures for evaluating whether to assign individuals to construct safety- and security-related SSCs. These procedures must provide reasonable assurance that the individuals are fit to safely and competently perform their duties, and are trustworthy and reliable, as demonstrated by the avoidance of substance abuse.
Subparts L-M [Reserved]

# Subpart N—Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements
§ 26.709
Applicability.
The requirements of this subpart apply to the FFD programs of licensees and other entities specified in § 26.3, except for FFD programs that are implemented under subpart K of this part.
§ 26.711
General provisions.
(a) Each licensee and other entity shall maintain records and submit certain reports to the NRC. Records that are required by the regulations in this part must be retained for the period specified by the appropriate regulation. If a retention period is not otherwise
specified, these records must be retained until the Commission terminates the facility's license, certificate, or other regulatory approval.
(b) All records may be stored and archived electronically, provided that the method used to create the electronic records meets the following criteria:
(1) Provides an accurate representation of the original records;
(2) Prevents the alteration of any archived information and/or data once it has been committed to storage; and
(3) Permits easy retrieval and re-creation of the original records.
(c) The licensees and other entities specified in § 26.3(a) and, as applicable, (c) and (d), shall inform each individual of his or her right to review information about the individual that is collected and maintained under this part to assure its accuracy. Licensees and other entities shall provide the individual with an opportunity to correct any inaccurate or incomplete information that is documented by licensees and other entities about the individual.
(d) Licensees and other entities shall ensure that only correct and complete information about individuals is retained and shared with other licensees and entities. If, for any reason, the shared information used for determining an individual's eligibility for authorization under this part changes or new information is developed about the individual, licensees and other entities shall correct or augment the shared information contained in the records. If the changed or developed information has implications for adversely affecting an individual's eligibility for authorization, a licensee and other entity specified in § 26.3(a) and, as applicable, (c) and (d), who has discovered the incorrect information, or develops new information, shall inform the reviewing official of any FFD program under which the individual is maintaining authorization of the updated information on the day of discovery. The reviewing official shall evaluate the information and take appropriate actions, which may include denial or unfavorable termination of the individual's authorization.
§ 26.713
Recordkeeping requirements for licensees and other entities.
(a) Each licensee and other entity who is subject to this subpart shall retain the following records for at least 5 years after the licensee or other entity terminates or denies an individual's authorization or until the completion of all related legal proceedings, whichever is later:
(1) Records of self-disclosures, employment histories, and suitable inquiries that are required under §§ 26.55, 26.57, 26.59, and 26.69 that result in the granting of authorization;
(2) Records pertaining to the determination of a violation of the FFD policy and related management actions;
(3) Documentation of the granting and termination of authorization; and
(4) Records of any determinations of fitness conducted under § 26.189, including any recommendations for treatment and followup testing plans.
(b) Each licensee and other entity who is subject to this subpart shall retain the following records for at least 3 years or until the completion of all related legal proceedings, whichever is later:
(1) Records of FFD training and examinations conducted under § 26.29; and
(2) Records of audits, audit findings, and corrective actions taken under § 26.41.
(c) Licensees and other entities shall ensure the retention and availability of records pertaining to any 5-year denial of authorization under § 26.75(c), (d), or (e)(2) and any permanent denial of authorization under § 26.75(b) and (g) for at least 40 years or until, on application, the NRC determines that the records are no longer needed.
(d) Licensees and other entities shall retain any superseded versions of the written FFD policy and procedures required under §§ 26.27, 26.39, and 26.203(b) for at least 5 years or until completion of all legal proceedings related to an FFD violation that may have occurred under the policy and procedures, whichever is later.
(e) Licensees and other entities shall retain written agreements for the provision of services under this part for the life of the agreement or until completion of all legal proceedings related
to an FFD policy violation that involved those services, whichever is later.
(f) Licensees and other entities shall retain records of the background investigations, credit and criminal history checks, and psychological assessments of FFD program personnel, conducted under § 26.31(b)(1)(i), for the length of the individual's employment by or contractual relationship with the licensee or other entity, or until the completion of all related legal proceedings, whichever is later.
(g) If a licensee's or other entity's FFD program includes tests for drugs in addition to those specified in this part, as permitted under § 26.31(d)(1), or uses more stringent cutoff levels than those specified in this part, as permitted under § 26.31(d)(3), the licensee or other entity shall retain documentation certifying the scientific and technical suitability of the assays and cutoff levels used, as required under § 26.31(d)(1)(i) and (d)(3)(iii)(C), respectively, for the time the FFD program follows these practices or until the completion of all related legal proceedings, whichever is later.
§ 26.715
Recordkeeping requirements for collection sites, licensee testing facilities, and laboratories certified by the Department of Health and Human Services.
(a) Collection sites providing services to licensees and other entities who are subject to this subpart, licensee testing facilities, and HHS-certified laboratories shall maintain and make available documentation of all aspects of the testing process for at least 2 years or until the completion of all legal proceedings related to a determination of an FFD violation, whichever is later. This 2-year period may be extended on written notification by the NRC or by any licensee or other entity for whom services are being provided.
(b) Documentation that must be retained includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Personnel files, including training records, for all individuals who have been authorized to have access to specimens, but are no longer under contract to or employed by the collection site or licensee testing facility;
(2) Chain of custody documents (other than forms recording specimens with negative test results and no FFD violations or anomalies, which may be destroyed after appropriate summary information has been recorded for program administration purposes);
(3) Quality assurance and quality control records;
(4) Superseded procedures;
(5) All test data (including calibration curves and any calculations used in determining test results);
(6) Test reports;
(7) Records pertaining to performance testing;
(8) Records pertaining to the investigation of testing errors or unsatisfactory performance discovered in quality control or blind performance testing, in the testing of actual specimens, or through the processing of appeals and MRO reviews, as well as any other errors or matters that could adversely reflect on the integrity of the testing process, investigation findings, and corrective actions taken, where applicable;
(9) Performance records on certification inspections;
(10) Records of preventative maintenance on licensee testing facility instruments;
(11) Records that summarize any test results that the MRO determined to be scientifically insufficient for further action;
(12) Either printed or electronic copies of computer-generated data;
(13) Records that document the dates, times of entry and exit, escorts, and purposes of entry of authorized visitors, maintenance personnel, and service personnel who have accessed secured areas of licensee testing facilities and HHS-certified laboratories; and
(14) Records of the inspection, maintenance, and calibration of EBTs.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 87 FR 71463, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.717
Fitness-for-duty program performance data.
(a) Licensees and other entities shall collect and compile FFD program performance data for each FFD program that is subject to this subpart.
(b) The FFD program performance data must include the following information:
(1) The random testing rate;
(2) Drugs for which testing is conducted and cutoff levels, including results of tests using lower cutoff levels, tests for drugs not included in the HHS panel, and any special analyses of dilute specimens permitted under § 26.163(a)(2);
(3) Populations tested (
i.e.,
licensee or other entity employees, C/Vs);
(4) Number of tests administered and results of those tests sorted by population tested (
i.e.,
licensee or other entity employees, C/Vs);
(5) Conditions under which the tests were performed, as defined in § 26.31(c);
(6) Substances identified;
(7) Number of subversion attempts by type;
(8) Summary of management actions; and
(9) The information required under § 26.203(e)(1) and (e)(2).
(c) Licensees and other entities who have a licensee-approved FFD program shall analyze the data at least annually and take appropriate actions to correct any identified program weaknesses. Records of the data, analyses, and corrective actions taken must be retained for at least 3 years or until the completion of any related legal proceedings, whichever is later.
(d) Any licensee or other entity who terminates an individual's authorization or takes administrative action on the basis of the results of a positive initial drug test for marijuana or cocaine shall also report these test results in the annual summary by processing stage (
i.e.
, initial testing at the licensee testing facility, testing at the HHS-certified laboratory, and MRO determinations). The report must also include the number of terminations and administrative actions taken against individuals for the reporting period.
(e) Licensees and other entities shall submit the FFD program performance data (for January through December) to the NRC annually, before March 1 of the following year.
(f) Licensees and other entities may submit the FFD program performance data in a consolidated report, as long as the report presents the data separately for each site.
(g) Each C/V who maintains a licensee-approved drug and alcohol testing program is subject to the reporting requirements of this section and shall submit the required information either directly to the NRC or through the licensees or other entities to whom the C/V provided services during the year. Licensees, other entities, and C/Vs shall share information to ensure that the information is reported completely and is not duplicated in reports submitted to the NRC.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 66603, Nov. 10, 2014; 87 FR 71463, Nov. 22, 2022]
§ 26.719
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Required reports.
Each licensee and entity who is subject to this subpart shall inform the NRC of significant violations of the FFD policy, significant FFD program failures, and errors in drug and alcohol testing. These events must be reported under this section, rather than under the provisions of 10 CFR 73.1200.
(b)
Significant FFD policy violations or programmatic failures.
The following significant FFD policy violations and programmatic failures must be reported to the NRC Operations Center by telephone within 24 hours after the licensee or other entity discovers the violation:
(1) The use, sale, distribution, possession, or presence of illegal drugs, or the consumption or presence of alcohol within a protected area;
(2) Any acts by any person licensed under 10 CFR part 55 to operate a power reactor, as well as any acts by SSNM transporters, FFD program personnel, or any supervisory personnel who are authorized under this part, if such acts—
(i) Involve the use, sale, or possession of a controlled substance;
(ii) Result in a determination that the individual has violated the licensee's or other entity's FFD policy (including subversion as defined in § 26.5); or
(iii) Involve the consumption of alcohol within a protected area or while performing the duties that require the
individual to be subject to the FFD program;
(3) Any intentional act that casts doubt on the integrity of the FFD program; and
(4) Any programmatic failure, degradation, or discovered vulnerability of the FFD program that may permit undetected drug or alcohol use or abuse by individuals within a protected area, or by individuals who are assigned to perform duties that require them to be subject to the FFD program.
(c)
Drug and alcohol testing errors.
(1) Within 30 days of completing an investigation of any testing errors or unsatisfactory performance discovered in performance testing at either a licensee testing facility or an HHS-certified laboratory, in the testing of quality control or actual specimens, or through the processing of reviews under § 26.39 and MRO reviews under § 26.185, as well as any other errors or matters that could adversely reflect on the integrity of the random selection or testing process, the licensee or other entity shall submit to the NRC a report of the incident and corrective actions taken or planned. If the error involves an HHS-certified laboratory, the NRC shall ensure that HHS is notified of the finding.
(2) If a false positive error occurs on a blind performance test sample submitted to an HHS-certified laboratory, the licensee or other entity shall notify the NRC within 24 hours after discovery of the error.
(3) If a false negative error occurs on a quality assurance check of validity screening tests, as required in § 26.137(b), the licensee or other entity shall notify the NRC within 24 hours after discovery of the error.
(d)
Indicators of programmatic weaknesses.
Licensees and other entities shall document, trend, and correct non-reportable indicators of FFD programmatic weaknesses under the licensee's or other entity's corrective action program, but may not track or trend drug and alcohol test results in a manner that would permit the identification of any individuals.
[73 FR 17176, Mar. 31, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 73942, Nov. 30, 2010; 88 FR 15880, Mar. 14, 2023]

# Subpart O—Inspections, Violations, and Penalties
§ 26.821
Inspections.
(a) Each licensee and other entity who is subject to this part shall permit duly authorized NRC representatives to inspect, copy, or take away copies of its records and to inspect its premises, activities, and personnel as may be necessary to accomplish the purposes of this part.
(b) Written agreements between licensees or other entities and their C/Vs must clearly show that—
(1) The licensee or other entity is responsible to the NRC for maintaining an effective FFD program under this part; and
(2) Duly authorized NRC representatives may inspect, copy, or take away copies of any licensee's, other entity's, or C/V's documents, records, and reports related to implementation of the licensee's or other entity's FFD program under the scope of the contracted activities.
§ 26.823
Violations.
(a) An injunction or other court order may be obtained to prohibit a violation of any provision of—
(1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
(2) Title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974; or
(3) Any regulation or order issued under these Acts.
(b) A court order may be obtained for the payment of a civil penalty imposed under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, for violations of—
(1) Section 53, 57, 62, 63, 81, 82, 101, 103, 104, 107, or 109 of the Act;
(2) Section 206 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974;
(3) Any rule, regulation, or order issued under these sections;
(4) Any term, condition, or limitation of any license issued under these sections; or
(5) Any provisions for which a license may be revoked under section 186 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.
§ 26.825
Criminal penalties.
(a) Section 223 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, provides for criminal sanctions for willful violation
of, attempted violation of, or conspiracy to violate, any regulation issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o of the Act. For the purposes of section 223, all of the regulations in Part 26 are issued under one or more of sections 161b, 161i, or 161o, except for the sections listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The regulations in Part 26 that are not issued under sections 161b, 161i, or 161o for the purposes of section 223 are as follows: §§ 26.1, 26.3, 26.5, 26.7, 26.8, 26.9, 26.11, 26.51, 26.81, 26.121, 26.151, 26.181, 26.201, 26.823, and 26.825.
Pt. 30

# PART 30—RULES OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY TO DOMESTIC LICENSING OF BYPRODUCT MATERIAL

# General Provisions
Sec.
30.1
Scope.
30.2
Resolution of conflict.
30.3
Activities requiring license.
30.4
Definitions.
30.5
Interpretations.
30.6
Communications.
30.7
Employee protection.
30.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
30.9
Completeness and accuracy of information.
30.10
Deliberate misconduct.

# Exemptions
30.11
Specific exemptions.
30.12
Persons using byproduct material under certain Department of Energy and Nuclear Regulatory Commission contracts.
30.13
Carriers.
30.14
Exempt concentrations.
30.15
Certain items containing byproduct material.
30.18
Exempt quantities.
30.19
Self-luminous products containing tritium, krypton-85, or promethium-147.
30.20
Gas and aerosol detectors containing byproduct material.
30.21
Radioactive drug: Capsules containing carbon-14 urea for “in vivo” diagnostic use for humans.
30.22
Certain industrial devices.

# Licenses
30.31
Types of licenses.
30.32
Application for specific licenses.
30.33
General requirements for issuance of specific licenses.
30.34
Terms and conditions of licenses.
30.35
Financial assurance and recordkeeping for decommissioning.
30.36
Expiration and termination of licenses and decommissioning of sites and separate buildings or outdoor areas.
30.37
Application for renewal of licenses.
30.38
Application for amendment of licenses and registration certificates.
30.39
Commission action on applications to renew or amend.
30.41
Transfer of byproduct material.

# Records, Inspections, Tests, and Reports
30.50
Reporting requirements.
30.51
Records.
30.52
Inspections.
30.53
Tests.
30.55
Tritium reports.

# Enforcement
30.61
Modification and revocation of licenses and registration certificates.
30.62
Right to cause the withholding or recall of byproduct material.
30.63
Violations.
30.64
Criminal penalties.

# Schedules
30.70
Schedule A—Exempt concentrations.
30.71
Schedule B.
30.72
Schedule C—Quantities of radioactive materials requiring consideration of the need for an emergency plan for responding to a release.
Appendix A to Part 30—Criteria Relating to Use of Financial Tests and Parent Company Guarantees for Providing Reasonable Assurance of Funds for Decommissioning
Appendix B to Part 30—Quantities of Licensed Material Requiring Labeling
Appendix C to Part 30—Criteria Relating to Use of Financial Tests and Self Guarantees for Providing Reasonable Assurance of Funds for Decommissioning
Appendix D to Part 30—Criteria Relating to Use of Financial Tests and Self-Guarantee for Providing Reasonable Assurance of Funds for Decommissioning by Commercial Companies That Have No Outstanding Rated Bonds
Appendix E to Part 30—Criteria Relating to Use of Financial Tests and Self-Guarantee for Providing Reasonable Assurance of Funds For Decommissioning by Nonprofit Colleges, Universities, and Hospitals

# Authority:
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, secs. 11, 81, 161, 181, 182, 183, 184, 186, 187, 223, 234, 274 (42 U.S.C. 2014, 2111, 2201, 2231, 2232, 2233, 2234, 2236, 2237, 2273, 2282, 2021); Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, secs. 201, 202, 206, 211 (42 U.S.C. 5841, 5842, 5846, 5851); 44 U.S.C. 3504 note.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 30 appear at 79 FR 75739, Dec. 19, 2014.

# General Provisions
§ 30.1
Scope.
This part prescribes rules applicable to all persons in the United States governing domestic licensing of byproduct material under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (68 Stat. 919), and under title II of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1242), and exemptions from the domestic licensing requirements permitted by Section 81 of the Act. This part also gives notice to all persons who knowingly provide to any licensee, applicant, certificate of registration holder, contractor, or subcontractor, components, equipment, materials, or other goods or services, that relate to a licensee's, applicant's or certificate of registration holder's activities subject to this part, that they may be individually subject to NRC enforcement action for violation of § 30.10.
[63 FR 1895, Jan. 13, 1998]
§ 30.2
Resolution of conflict.
The requirements of this part are in addition to, and not in substitution for, other requirements of this chapter. In any conflict between the requirements in this part and a specific requirement in another part of the regulations in this chapter, the specific requirement governs.
[30 FR 8185, June 26, 1965]
§ 30.3
Activities requiring license.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section and for persons exempt as provided in this part and part 150 of this chapter, no person shall manufacture, produce, transfer, receive, acquire, own, possess, or use byproduct material except as authorized in a specific or general license issued in accordance with the regulations in this chapter.
(b)(1) The requirements, including provisions that are specific to licensees, in this part and parts 19, 20, 21, and 71 of this chapter, as well as the additional requirements for specific broad scope, industrial radiography, irradiator, or well logging uses in 10 CFR parts 33, 34, 36, or 39, respectively, shall apply to Government agencies or Federally recognized Indian Tribes on November 30, 2007, when conducting activities under the authority provided by paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.
(2) A specifically licensed Government agency or Federally recognized Indian Tribe that possesses and uses accelerator-produced radioactive material or discrete sources of radium-226 for which a license amendment is required to authorize the activities in paragraph (a) of this section, may continue to use these materials for uses permitted under this part until the date of the NRC's final licensing determination, provided that the licensee submits an amendment application on or before June 2, 2008.
(3) A Government agency or Federally recognized Indian Tribe that possesses and uses accelerator-produced radioactive material or discrete sources of radium-226 for which a specific license is required in paragraph (a) of this section, may continue to use such material for uses permitted under this part until the date of the NRC's final licensing determination provided that the agency or Indian Tribe submits an application for a license authorizing activities involving these materials on or before December 1, 2008.
(c)(1) The requirements, including provisions that are specific to licensees in this part and parts 19, 20, 21, and 71 of this chapter, as well as the additional requirements for specific broad scope, industrial radiography, irradiator, or well logging uses in 10 CFR parts 33, 34, 36, or 39, respectively, shall apply to all persons, other than those included in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, on August 8, 2009, or earlier as noticed by the NRC, when conducting activities under the authority provided by paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, all other licensees, who possess and use accelerator-produced radioactive material or discrete sources of radium-226 for which a license amendment is required to authorize the activities in paragraph (a) of this section, may continue to use
these materials for uses permitted under this part until the date of the NRC's final licensing determination, provided that the person submits an amendment application within 6 months from the waiver expiration date of August 7, 2009 or within 6 months from the date of an earlier termination of the waiver as noticed by the NRC, whichever date is earlier.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, all other persons, who possess and use accelerator-produced radioactive material or discrete sources of radium-226 for which a specific license is required in paragraph (a) of this section, may continue to use such material for uses permitted under this part until the date of the NRC's final licensing determination, provided that the person submits a license application within 12 months from the waiver expiration date of August 7, 2009 or within 12 months from the date of an earlier termination of the waiver as noticed by the NRC, whichever date is earlier.
(d) If a person or licensee is required to file an application for a license or amendment in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section, but does not file for the license or amendment within the required time, the authority provided by paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (c)(2), and (c)(3) of this section to receive or use the accelerator-produced radioactive material or discrete sources of radium-226 shall expire with respect to the person's or licensee's authority to receive and use such byproduct material. This authority shall not expire with respect to the responsibility of the person or licensee regarding the possession of such byproduct material, the decommissioning (including financial assurance) of facilities, or the disposal of such byproduct material.
[72 FR 55924, Oct. 1, 2007]
§ 30.4
Definitions.
Accelerator-produced radioactive material
means any material made radioactive by a particle accelerator.
Act
means the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (68 Stat. 919), including any amendments thereto;
Agreement State
means any state with which the Atomic Energy Commission or the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has entered into an effective agreement under subsection 274b. of the Act.
Non-agreement State
means any other State;
Alert
means events may occur, are in progress, or have occurred that could lead to a release of radioactive material but that the release is not expected to require a response by offsite response organizations to protect persons offsite.
Byproduct material
means—
(1) Any radioactive material (except special nuclear material) yielded in, or made radioactive by, exposure to the radiation incident to the process of producing or using special nuclear material;
(2)(i) Any discrete source of radium-226 that is produced, extracted, or converted after extraction, before, on, or after August 8, 2005, for use for a commercial, medical, or research activity; or
(ii) Any material that—
(A) Has been made radioactive by use of a particle accelerator; and
(B) Is produced, extracted, or converted after extraction, before, on, or after August 8, 2005, for use for a commercial, medical, or research activity; and
(3) Any discrete source of naturally occurring radioactive material, other than source material, that—
(i) The Commission, in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the head of any other appropriate Federal agency, determines would pose a threat similar to the threat posed by a discrete source of radium-226 to the public health and safety or the common defense and security; and
(ii) Before, on, or after August 8, 2005, is extracted or converted after extraction for use in a commercial, medical, or research activity.
Commencement of construction
means taking any action defined as “construction” or any other activity at the site of a facility subject to the regulations in this part that has a reasonable nexus to:
(1) Radiological health and safety; or
(2) Common defense and security.
Commission
means the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and its duly authorized representatives;
Consortium
means an association of medical use licensees and a PET radionuclide production facility in the same geographical area that jointly own or share in the operation and maintenance cost of the PET radionuclide production facility that produces PET radionuclides for use in producing radioactive drugs within the consortium for noncommercial distributions among its associated members for medical use. The PET radionuclide production facility within the consortium must be located at an educational institution or a Federal facility or a medical facility.
Construction
means the installation of foundations, or in-place assembly, erection, fabrication, or testing for any structure, system, or component of a facility or activity subject to the regulations in this part that are related to radiological safety or security. The term “construction” does not include:
(1) Changes for temporary use of the land for public recreational purposes;
(2) Site exploration, including necessary borings to determine foundation conditions or other preconstruction monitoring to establish background information related to the suitability of the site, the environmental impacts of construction or operation, or the protection of environmental values;
(3) Preparation of the site for construction of the facility, including clearing of the site, grading, installation of drainage, erosion and other environmental mitigation measures, and construction of temporary roads and borrow areas;
(4) Erection of fences and other access control measures that are not related to the safe use of, or security of, radiological materials subject to this part;
(5) Excavation;
(6) Erection of support buildings (e.g., construction equipment storage sheds, warehouse and shop facilities, utilities, concrete mixing plants, docking and unloading facilities, and office buildings) for use in connection with the construction of the facility;
(7) Building of service facilities (e.g., paved roads, parking lots, railroad spurs, exterior utility and lighting systems, potable water systems, sanitary sewerage treatment facilities, and transmission lines);
(8) Procurement or fabrication of components or portions of the proposed facility occurring at other than the final, in-place location at the facility; or
(9) Taking any other action that has no reasonable nexus to:
(i) Radiological health and safety, or
(ii) Common defense and security.
Curie
means that amount of radioactive material which disintegrates at the rate of 37 billion atoms per second;
Cyclotron
means a particle accelerator in which the charged particles travel in an outward spiral or circular path. A cyclotron accelerates charged particles at energies usually in excess of 10 megaelectron volts and is commonly used for production of short half-life radionuclides for medical use.
Decommission
means to remove a facility or site safely from service and reduce residual radioactivity to a level that permits—
(1) Release of the property for unrestricted use and termination of the license; or
(2) Release of the property under restricted conditions and termination of the license.
Dentist
means an individual licensed by a State or Territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to practice dentistry.
Department
and
Department of Energy
means the Department of Energy established by the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 565, 42 U.S.C. 7101
et seq.
) to the extent that the Department, or its duly authorized representatives, exercises functions formerly vested in the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, its Chairman, members, officers and components and transferred to the U.S. Energy Research and Development Administration and to the Administrator thereof pursuant to sections 104 (b), (c) and (d) of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-438, 88 Stat. 1233 at 1237, 42 U.S.C. 5814) and retransferred to the Secretary of Energy pursuant to
section 301(a) of the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95-91, 91 Stat. 565 at 577-578, 42 U.S.C. 7151).
Discrete source
means a radionuclide that has been processed so that its concentration within a material has been purposely increased for use for commercial, medical, or research activities.
Effective dose equivalent
means the sum of the products of the dose equivalent to the organ or tissue and the weighting factors applicable to each of the body organs or tissues that are irradiated. Weighting factors are: 0.25 for gonads, 0.15 for breast, 0.12 for red bone marrow, 0.12 for lungs, 0.03 for thyroid, 0.03 for bone surface, and 0.06 for each of the other five organs receiving the highest dose equivalent.
Government agency
means any executive department, commission, independent establishment, corporation, wholly or partly owned by the United States of America which is an instrumentality of the United States, or any board, bureau, division, service, office, officer, authority, administration, or other establishment in the executive branch of the Government;
License,
except where otherwise specified means a license for by-product material issued pursuant to the regulations in this part and parts 31 through 36 and 39 of this chapter;
Medical use
means the intentional internal or external administration of byproduct material or the radiation therefrom to patients or human research subjects under the supervision of an authorized user as defined in 10 CFR part 35.
Microcurie
means that amount of radioactive material which disintegrates at the rate of 37 thousand atoms per second;
Millicurie
means that amount of radioactive material which disintegrates at the rate of 37 million atoms per second;
Particle accelerator
means any machine capable of accelerating electrons, protons, deuterons, or other charged particles in a vacuum and of discharging the resultant particulate or other radiation into a medium at energies usually in excess of 1 megaelectron volt. For purposes of this definition, accelerator is an equivalent term.
Person
means: (1) Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust, estate, public or private institution, group, Government agency other than the Commission or the Department, except that the Department shall be considered a person within the meaning of the regulations in this part to the extent that its facilities and activities are subject to the licensing and related regulatory authority of the Commission pursuant to section 202 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 (88 Stat. 1244), any State or any political subdivision of or any political entity within a State, any foreign government or nation or any political subdivision of any such government or nation, or other entity; and (2) any legal successor, representative, agent, or agency of the foregoing;
Physician
means a medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy licensed by a State or Territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to prescribe drugs in the practice of medicine;
Podiatrist
means an individual licensed by a State or Territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico to practice podiatry.
Principal activities,
as used in this part, means activities authorized by the license which are essential to achieving the purpose(s) for which the license was issued or amended. Storage during which no licensed material is accessed for use or disposal and activities incidental to decontamination or decommissioning are not principal activities.
Production facility
means production facility as defined in the regulations contained in part 50 of this chapter;
Research and development
means: (1) Theoretical analysis, exploration, or experimentation; or (2) the extension of investigative findings and theories of a scientific or technical nature into practical application for experimental and demonstration purposes, including the experimental production and testing of models, devices, equipment, materials and processes. “Research and development” as used in this part and
parts 31 through 35 does not include the internal or external administration of byproduct material, or the radiation therefrom, to human beings;
Sealed source
means any byproduct material that is encased in a capsule designed to prevent leakage or escape of the byproduct material;
Site area emergency
means events may occur, are in progress, or have occurred that could lead to a significant release of radioactive material and that could require a response by offsite response organizations to protect persons offsite.
Source material
means source material as defined in the regulations contained in part 40 of this chapter;
Special nuclear material
means special nuclear material as defined in the regulations contained in part 70 of this chapter;
United States,
when used in a geographical sense, includes Puerto Rico and all territories and possessions of the United States;
Utilization facility
means a utilization facility as defined in the regulations contained in part 50 of this chapter;
[30 FR 8185, June 26, 1965]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 30.4, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 30.5
Interpretations.
Except as specifically authorized by the Commission in writing, no interpretation of the meaning of the regulations in this part and parts 31 through 36 and 39 by any officer or employee of the Commission other than a written interpretation by the General Counsel will be recognized to be binding upon the Commission.
[30 FR 8185, June 26, 1965, as amended at 43 FR 6921, Feb. 17, 1978; 52 FR 8241, Mar. 17, 1987; 58 FR 7736, Feb. 9, 1993]
§ 30.6
Communications.
(a) Unless otherwise specified or covered under the regional licensing program as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any communication or report concerning the regulations in parts 30 through 37 and 39 of this chapter and any application filed under these regulations may be submitted to the Commission as follows:
(1) By mail addressed: ATTN: Document Control Desk, Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001.
(2) By hand delivery to the NRC's offices at 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland.
(3) Where practicable, by electronic submission, for example, via Electronic Information Exchange, or CD-ROM. Electronic submissions must be made in a manner that enables the NRC to receive, read, authenticate, distribute, and archive the submission, and process and retrieve it a single page at a time. Detailed guidance on making electronic submissions can be obtained by visiting the NRC's Web site at
http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/e-submittals.html;
by e-mail to
MSHD.Resource@nrc.gov;
or by writing the Office of the Chief Information Officer, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555-0001. The guidance discusses, among other topics, the formats the NRC can accept, the use of electronic signatures, and the treatment of nonpublic information.
(b) The Commission has delegated to the four Regional Administrators licensing authority for selected parts of its decentralized licensing program for nuclear materials as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Any communication, report, or application covered under this licensing program must be submitted to the appropriate Regional Administrator. The Administrators' jurisdictions and mailing addresses are listed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(1) The delegated licensing program includes authority to issue, renew, amend, cancel, modify, suspend, or revoke licenses for nuclear materials issued pursuant to 10 CFR parts 30 through 36, 39, 40, and 70 to all persons for academic, medical, and industrial uses, with the following exceptions:
(i) Activities in the fuel cycle and special nuclear material in quantities sufficient to constitute a critical mass in any room or area. This exception does not apply to license modifications relating to termination of special nuclear material licenses that authorize
possession of larger quantities when the case is referred for action from NRC's Headquarters to the Regional Administrators.
(ii) Health and safety design review of sealed sources and devices and approval, for licensing purposes, of sealed sources and devices.
(iii) Processing of source material for extracting of metallic compounds (including Zirconium, Hafnium, Tantalum, Titanium, Niobium, etc.).
(iv) Distribution of products containing radioactive material under §§ 32.11 through 32.30 and 40.52 of this chapter to persons exempt from licensing requirements.
(v) New uses or techniques for use of byproducts, source, or special nuclear material.
(2)
Submissions.
(i)
Region I.
The regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region I non-Agreement States and the District of Columbia: Connecticut, Delaware, and Vermont. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, renewal, or termination request of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region I, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415; where email is appropriate it should be addressed to
RidsRgn1MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.
(ii)
Region II.
The regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region II non-Agreement States and territories: West Virginia, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, renewal, or termination request of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region I, 475 Allendale Road, Suite 102, King of Prussia, PA 19406-1415; where email is appropriate it should be addressed to
RidsRgn1MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.
(iii)
Region III.
(A) The regional licensing program for mining and milling involves all Federal facilities in the region, and non-Federal licensees in the Region III non-Agreement States of Indiana, Michigan, Missouri and the Region III Agreement States of Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Iowa. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, renewal, or termination request of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region III, Material Licensing Section, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352; where e-mail is appropriate it should be addressed to
RidsRgn3MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.
(B) Otherwise, the regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the Region III non-Agreement States of Indiana, Michigan, and Missouri. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, renewal, or termination request of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region III, Material Licensing Section, 2443 Warrenville Road, Suite 210, Lisle, IL 60532-4352; where e-mail is appropriate it should be addressed to
RidsRgn3MailCenter.Resource@nrc.gov.
(iv)
Region IV.
(A) The regional licensing program for mining and milling involves all Federal facilities in the region, and non-Federal licensees in the Region IV non-Agreement States and territory of Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, South Dakota, Wyoming and Guam and Region IV Agreement States of Oregon, California, Nevada, New Mexico, Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, and North Dakota. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, renewal, or termination request of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region IV, Division of Nuclear Materials Safety, 1600 E. Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511; where email is appropriate, it
should be addressed to
RidsRgn4MailCenter@nrc.gov.
(B) Otherwise, the regional licensing program involves all Federal facilities in the region and non-Federal licensees in the following Region IV non-Agreement States and territory: Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, South Dakota, Wyoming, and Guam. All mailed or hand-delivered inquiries, communications, and applications for a new license or an amendment, renewal, or termination request of an existing license specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must use the following address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region IV, Division of Nuclear Materials Safety, 1600 E. Lamar Blvd., Arlington, TX 76011-4511; where email is appropriate, it should be addressed to
RidsRgn4MailCenter@nrc.gov.

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 30.6, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 30.7
Employee protection.
(a) Discrimination by a Commission licensee, an applicant for a Commission license, or a contractor or subcontractor of a Commission licensee or applicant against an employee for engaging in certain protected activities is prohibited. Discrimination includes discharge and other actions that relate to compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment. The protected activities are established in section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, and in general are related to the administration or enforcement of a requirement imposed under the Atomic Energy Act or the Energy Reorganization Act.
(1) The protected activities include but are not limited to:
(i) Providing the Commission or his or her employer information about alleged violations of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) introductory text of this section or possible violations of requirements imposed under either of those statutes;
(ii) Refusing to engage in any practice made unlawful under either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) introductory text or under these requirements if the employee has identified the alleged illegality to the employer;
(iii) Requesting the Commission to institute action against his or her employer for the administration or enforcement of these requirements;
(iv) Testifying in any Commission proceeding, or before Congress, or at any Federal or State proceeding regarding any provision (or proposed provision) of either of the statutes named in paragraph (a) introductory text.
(v) Assisting or participating in, or is about to assist or participate in, these activities.
(2) These activities are protected even if no formal proceeding is actually initiated as a result of the employee assistance or participation.
(3) This section has no application to any employee alleging discrimination prohibited by this section who, acting without direction from his or her employer (or the employer's agent), deliberately causes a violation of any requirement of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, or the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
(b) Any employee who believes that he or she has been discharged or otherwise discriminated against by any person for engaging in protected activities specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section may seek a remedy for the discharge or discrimination through an administrative proceeding in the Department of Labor. The administrative proceeding must be initiated within 180 days after an alleged violation occurs. The employee may do this by filing a complaint alleging the violation with the Department of Labor, Employment Standards Administration, Wage and Hour Division. The Department of Labor may order reinstatement, back pay, and compensatory damages.
(c) A violation of paragraphs (a), (e), or (f) of this section by a Commission licensee, an applicant for a Commission license, or a contractor or subcontractor of a Commission licensee or applicant may be grounds for—
(1) Denial, revocation, or suspension of the license.
(2) Imposition of a civil penalty on the licensee, applicant, or a contractor or subcontractor of the licensee or applicant.
(3) Other enforcement action.
(d) Actions taken by an employer, or others, which adversely affect an employee may be predicated upon nondiscriminatory grounds. The prohibition applies when the adverse action occurs because the employee has engaged in protected activities. An employee's engagement in protected activities does not automatically render him or her immune from discharge or discipline for legitimate reasons or from adverse action dictated by nonprohibited considerations.
(e)(1) Each specific licensee, each applicant for a specific license, and each general licensee subject to part 19 shall prominently post the revision of NRC Form 3, “Notice to Employees,” referenced in 10 CFR 19.11(e)(1).
(2) The posting of NRC Form 3 must be at locations sufficient to permit employees protected by this section to observe a copy on the way to or from their place of work. Premises must be posted not later than 30 days after an application is docketed and remain posted while the application is pending before the Commission, during the term of the license, and for 30 days following license termination.
(3) Copies of NRC Form 3 may be obtained by writing to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Regional Office listed in appendix D to part 20 of this chapter, via email to
Forms.Resource@nrc.gov,
or by visiting the NRC's online library at
http://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/forms/.
(f) No agreement affecting the compensation, terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, including an agreement to settle a complaint filed by an employee with the Department of Labor pursuant to section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, may contain any provision which would prohibit, restrict, or otherwise discourage an employee from participating in protected activity as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section including, but not limited to, providing information to the NRC or to his or her employer on potential violations or other matters within NRC's regulatory responsibilities.
[58 FR 52408, Oct. 8, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 24551, May 9, 1995; 61 FR 6764, Feb. 22, 1996; 68 FR 58803, Oct. 10, 2003; 72 FR 63973, Nov. 14, 2007; 73 FR 30458, May 28, 2008; 79 FR 66603, Nov. 10, 2014; 83 FR 58465, Nov. 20, 2018]
§ 30.8
Information collection requirements: OMB approval.
(a) The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has submitted the information collection requirements contained in this part to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
). The NRC may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. OMB has approved the information collection requirements contained in this part under control number 3150-0017.
(b) The approved information collection requirements contained in this part appear in §§ 30.9, 30.11, 30.15, 30.19, 30.20, 30.32, 30.34, 30.35, 30.36, 30.37, 30.38, 30.41, 30.50, 30.51, 30.55, and appendices A, C, D, and E to this part.
(c) This part contains information collection requirements in addition to those approved under the control number specified in paragraph (a) of this section. These information collection requirements and the control numbers under which they are approved are as follows:
(1) In §§ 30.32 and 30.37, NRC Form 313 is approved under control number 3150-0120.
(2) In § 30.36, NRC Form 314 is approved under control number 3150-0028.
(3) In § 30.34, DOC/NRC Forms AP-1, AP-A, and associated forms are approved under control number 0694-0135.
