A banking institution that is engaged in a retail forex business on the effective date of this part may continue to do so, until and unless the Board objects in writing, so long as the institution submits the information required to be submitted under paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section within 30 days of the effective date of this part, subject to an extension of time by the Board, and such additional information as requested by the Board thereafter.
(d)
Compliance with the Commodity Exchange Act.
A banking institution that is engaged in a retail forex business on
the effective date of this part and complies with paragraph (c) of this section shall be deemed to be acting pursuant to a rule or regulation described in section 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I)).
§ 240.5
Application and closing out of offsetting long and short positions.
(a)
Application of purchases and sales.
Any banking institution that—
(1) Engages in a retail forex transaction involving the purchase of any currency for the account of any retail forex customer when the account of such retail forex customer at the time of such purchase has an open retail forex transaction for the sale of the same currency;
(2) Engages in a retail forex transaction involving the sale of any currency for the account of any retail forex customer when the account of such retail forex customer at the time of such sale has an open retail forex transaction for the purchase of the same currency;
(3) Purchases a put or call option involving foreign currency for the account of any retail forex customer when the account of such retail forex customer at the time of such purchase has a short put or call option position with the same underlying currency, strike price, and expiration date as that purchased; or
(4) Sells a put or call option involving foreign currency for the account of any retail forex customer when the account of such retail forex customer at the time of such sale has a long put or call option position with the same underlying currency, strike price, and expiration date as that sold shall:
(i) Immediately apply such purchase or sale against such previously held opposite transaction with the same customer; and
(ii) Promptly furnish such retail forex customer with a statement showing the financial result of the transactions involved and the name of any introducing broker to the account.
(b)
Close-out against oldest open position.
In all instances in which the short or long position in a customer's retail forex account immediately prior to an offsetting purchase or sale is greater than the quantity purchased or sold, the banking institution shall apply such offsetting purchase or sale to the oldest portion of the previously held short or long position.
(c)
Transactions to be applied as directed by customer.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the offsetting transaction shall be applied as directed by a retail forex customer's specific instructions. These instructions may not be made by the banking institution or a related person.
§ 240.6
Disclosure.
(a)
Risk disclosure statement required.
No banking institution may open or maintain an account for a retail forex customer for the purpose of engaging in retail forex transactions unless the banking institution has furnished the retail forex customer with a separate written disclosure statement containing only the language set forth in paragraph (d) of this section and the disclosures required by paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section.
(b)
Acknowledgement of risk disclosure statement required.
The banking institution must receive from the retail forex customer a written acknowledgement signed and dated by the customer that the customer received and understood the written disclosure statement required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Placement of risk disclosure statement.
The disclosure statement may be attached to other documents as the initial page(s) of such documents and as the only material on such page(s).
(d)
Content of risk disclosure statement.
The language set forth in the written disclosure statement required by paragraph (a) of this section shall be as follows:

# Risk Disclosure Statement
Retail forex transactions generally involve the leveraged trading of contracts denominated in foreign currency with a banking institution as your counterparty. Because of the leverage and the other risks disclosed here, you can rapidly lose all of the funds or property you give the banking institution as margin for such trading and you may lose more than you pledge as margin. You should be aware of and carefully consider the following points before determining whether such trading is appropriate for you.
(1) Trading foreign currencies is a not on a regulated market or exchange—your banking
institution is your trading counterparty and has conflicting interests. The retail forex transaction you are entering into is not conducted on an interbank market, nor is it conducted on a futures exchange subject to regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The foreign currency trades you transact are trades with your banking institution as the counterparty. When you sell, the banking institution is the buyer. When you buy, the banking institution is the seller. As a result, when you lose money trading, your banking institution is making money on such trades, in addition to any fees, commissions, or spreads the banking institution may charge.
(2) Any electronic trading platform that you may use for retail foreign currency transactions with your banking institution is not a regulated exchange. It is an electronic connection for accessing your banking institution. The terms of availability of such a platform are governed only by your contract with your banking institution. Any trading platform that you may use to enter into off-exchange foreign currency transactions is only connected to your banking institution. You are accessing that trading platform only to transact with your banking institution. You are not trading with any other entities or customers of the banking institution by accessing such platform. The availability and operation of any such platform, including the consequences of the unavailability of the trading platform for any reason, is governed only by the terms of your account agreement with the banking institution.
(3) You may be able to offset or liquidate any trading positions only through your banking institution because the transactions are not made on an exchange, and your banking institution may set its own prices. Your ability to close your transactions or offset positions is limited to what your banking institution will offer to you, as there is no other market for these transactions. Your banking institution may offer any prices it wishes. Your banking institution may establish its prices by offering spreads from third party prices, but it is under no obligation to do so or to continue to do so. Your banking institution may offer different prices to different customers at any point in time on its own terms. The terms of your account agreement alone govern the obligations your banking institution has to you to offer prices and offer offset or liquidating transactions in your account and make any payments to you. The prices offered by your banking institution may or may not reflect prices available elsewhere at any exchange, interbank, or other market for foreign currency.
(4) Paid solicitors may have undisclosed conflicts. The banking institution may compensate introducing brokers for introducing your account in ways that are not disclosed to you. Such paid solicitors are not required to have, and may not have, any special expertise in trading, and may have conflicts of interest based on the method by which they are compensated. You should thoroughly investigate the manner in which all such solicitors are compensated and be very cautious in granting any person or entity authority to trade on your behalf. You should always consider obtaining dated written confirmation of any information you are relying on from your banking institution in making any trading or account decisions.
(5) Retail forex transactions are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(6) Retail forex transactions are not a deposit in, or guaranteed by, a banking institution.
(7) Retail forex transactions are subject to investment risks, including possible loss of all amounts invested.
Finally, you should thoroughly investigate any statements by any banking institution that minimize the importance of, or contradict, any of the terms of this risk disclosure. Such statements may indicate sales fraud.
This brief statement cannot, of course, disclose all the risks and other aspects of trading off-exchange foreign currency with a banking institution. I hereby acknowledge that I have received and understood this risk disclosure statement.
Date
Signature of Customer
(e)(1)
Disclosure of profitable accounts ratio.
Immediately following the language set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, the statement required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include, for each of the most recent four calendar quarters during which the banking institution maintained retail forex customer accounts:
(i) The total number of retail forex customer accounts maintained by the banking institution over which the banking institution does not exercise investment discretion;
(ii) The percentage of such accounts that were profitable for retail forex customer accounts during the quarter; and
(iii) The percentage of such accounts that were not profitable for retail forex customer accounts during the quarter.
(2)
Statement of profitable trades.
(i) The banking institution's statement of
profitable trades shall include the following legend: Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.
(ii) Each banking institution shall provide, upon request, to any retail forex customer or prospective retail forex customer the total number of retail forex accounts maintained by the banking institution for which the banking institution does not exercise investment discretion, the percentage of such accounts that were profitable, and the percentage of such accounts that were not profitable for each calendar quarter during the most recent five-year period during which the banking institution maintained such accounts.
(f)
Disclosure of fees and other charges.
Immediately following the language required by paragraph (e) of this section, the statement required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include:
(1) The amount of any fee, charge, spread, or commission that the banking institution may impose on the retail forex customer in connection with a retail forex account or retail forex transaction;
(2) An explanation of how the banking institution will determine the amount of such fees, charges, spreads, or commissions; and
(3) The circumstances under which the banking institution may impose such fees, charges, spreads, or commissions.
(g)
Set-off.
Immediately following the language required by paragraph (f) of this section, the statement required by paragraph (a) of this section shall include:
(1) A statement as to whether the banking institution will or will not retain the right to set off obligations of the retail forex customer arising from the customer's retail forex transactions, including margin calls and losses, against the customer's other assets held by the banking institution;
(2) If the banking institution states that it reserves its right to set off obligations of the retail forex customer arising from the customer's retail forex transactions against the customer's other assets, the banking institution must receive from the retail forex customer a written acknowledgement signed and dated by the customer that the customer received and understood the written disclosure required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(h)
Future disclosure requirements.
If, with regard to a retail forex customer, the banking institution changes any fee, charge, or commission required to be disclosed under paragraph (f) of this section, then the banking institution shall mail or deliver to the retail forex customer a notice of the changes at least 15 days prior to the effective date of the change.
(i)
Form of disclosure requirements.
The disclosures required by this section shall be clear and conspicuous and designed to call attention to the nature and significance of the information provided.
(j)
Other disclosure requirements unaffected.
This section does not relieve a banking institution from any other disclosure obligation it may have under applicable law.
§ 240.7
Recordkeeping.
(a)
General rule.
A banking institution engaging in retail forex transactions shall keep full, complete and systematic records, together with all pertinent data and memoranda, of all transactions relating to its retail forex business, including:
(1)
Retail forex account records.
For each retail forex account:
(i) The name and address of the person for whom such retail forex account is carried or introduced and the principal occupation or business of the person;
(ii) The name of any other person guaranteeing the account or exercising trading control with respect to the account;
(iii) The establishment or termination of the account;
(iv) A means to identify the person who has solicited and is responsible for the account or assign account numbers in such a manner as to identify that person;
(v) The funds in the account, net of any commissions and fees;
(vi) The account's net profits and losses on open trades;
(vii) The funds in the account plus or minus the net profits and losses on open trades, adjusted for the net option
value in the case of open options positions;
(viii) Financial ledger records that show separately for each retail forex customer all charges against and credits to such retail forex customer's account, including but not limited to retail forex customer funds deposited, withdrawn, or transferred, and charges or credits resulting from losses or gains on closed transactions; and
(ix) A list of all retail forex transactions executed for the account, with the details specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Retail forex transaction records.
For each retail forex transaction:
(i) The date and time the banking institution received the order;
(ii) The price at which the banking institution placed the order, or, in the case of an option, the premium that the retail forex customer paid;
(iii) The customer account identification information;
(iv) The currency pair;
(v) The size or quantity of the order;
(vi) Whether the order was a buy or sell order;
(vii) The type of order, if the order was not a market order;
(viii) The size and price at which the order is executed, or in the case of an option, the amount of the premium paid for each option purchased, or the amount credited for each option sold;
(ix) For options, whether the option is a put or call, expiration date, quantity, underlying contract for future delivery or underlying physical, strike price, and details of the purchase price of the option, including premium, mark-up, commission, and fees;
(x) For futures, the delivery date; and
(xi) If the order was made on a trading platform:
(A) The price quoted on the trading platform when the order was placed, or, in the case of an option, the premium quoted;
(B) The date and time the order was transmitted to the trading platform; and
(C) The date and time the order was executed.
(3)
Price changes on a trading platform.
If a trading platform is used, daily logs showing each price change on the platform, the time of the change to the nearest second, and the trading volume at that time and price.
(4)
Methods or algorithms.
Any method or algorithm used to determine the bid or asked price for any retail forex transaction or the prices at which customers orders are executed, including, but not limited to, any mark-ups, fees, commissions or other items which affect the profitability or risk of loss of a retail forex customer's transaction.
(5)
Daily records
which show for each business day complete details of:
(i) All retail forex transactions that are futures transactions executed on that day, including the date, price, quantity, market, currency pair, delivery date, and the person for whom such transaction was made;
(ii) All retail forex transactions that are option transactions executed on that day, including the date, whether the transaction involved a put or call, the expiration date, quantity, currency pair, delivery date, strike price, details of the purchase price of the option, including premium, mark-up, commission and fees, and the person for whom the transaction was made; and
(iii) All other retail forex transactions executed on that day for such account, including the date, price, quantity, currency and the person for whom such transaction was made.
(6)
Other records.
Written acknowledgements of receipt of the risk disclosure statement required by § 240.6(b), offset instructions pursuant to § 240.5(c), records required under paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, trading cards, signature cards, street books, journals, ledgers, payment records, copies of statements of purchase, and all other records, data and memoranda that have been prepared in the course of the banking institution's retail forex business.
(b)
Ratio of profitable accounts.
(1) With respect to its active retail forex customer accounts over which it did not exercise investment discretion and that are not retail forex proprietary accounts open for any period of time during the quarter, a banking institution shall prepare and maintain on a quarterly basis (calendar quarter):
(i) A calculation of the percentage of such accounts that were profitable;
(ii) A calculation of the percentage of such accounts that were not profitable; and
(iii) Data supporting the calculations described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) In calculating whether a retail forex account was profitable or not profitable during the quarter, the banking institution shall compute the realized and unrealized gains or losses on all retail forex transactions carried in the retail forex account at any time during the quarter, and subtract all fees, commissions, and any other charges posted to the retail forex account during the quarter, and add any interest income and other income or rebates credited to the retail forex account during the quarter. All deposits and withdrawals of funds made by the retail forex customer during the quarter must be excluded from the computation of whether the retail forex account was profitable or not profitable during the quarter. Computations that result in a zero or negative number shall be considered a retail forex account that was not profitable. Computations that result in a positive number shall be considered a retail forex account that was profitable.
(3) A retail forex account shall be considered “active” for purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if and only if, for the relevant calendar quarter, a retail forex transaction was executed in that account or the retail forex account contained an open position resulting from a retail forex transaction.
(c)
Records related to possible violations of law.
A banking institution engaging in retail forex transactions shall make a record of all communications received by the banking institution or its related persons concerning facts giving rise to possible violations of law related to the banking institution's retail forex business. The record shall contain: the name of the complainant, if provided; the date of the communication; the relevant agreement, contract, or transaction; the substance of the communication; and the name of the person who received the communication and the final disposition of the matter.
(d)
Records for noncash margin.
A banking institution shall maintain a record of all noncash margin collected pursuant to § 240.9. The record shall show separately for each retail forex customer:
(1) A description of the securities or property received;
(2) The name and address of such retail forex customer;
(3) The dates when the securities or property were received;
(4) The identity of the depositories or other places where such securities or property are segregated or held, if applicable;
(5) The dates on which the banking institution placed or removed such securities or property into or from such depositories; and
(6) The dates of return of such securities or property to such retail forex customer, or other disposition thereof, together with the facts and circumstances of such other disposition.
(e)
Order tickets.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, immediately upon the receipt of a retail forex transaction order, a banking institution shall prepare an order ticket for the order (whether unfulfilled, executed or canceled). The order ticket shall include:
(i) Account identification (account or customer name with which the retail forex transaction was effected);
(ii) Order number;
(iii) Type of order (market order, limit order, or subject to special instructions);
(iv) Date and time, to the nearest minute, the retail forex transaction order was received (as evidenced by timestamp or other timing device);
(v) Time, to the nearest minute, the retail forex transaction order was executed; and
(vi) Price at which the retail forex transaction was executed.
(2)
Post-execution allocation of bunched orders.
Specific identifiers for retail forex accounts included in bunched orders need not be recorded at time of order placement or upon report of execution as required under paragraph (e)(1) of this section if the following requirements are met:
(i) The banking institution placing and directing the allocation of an order
eligible for post-execution allocation has been granted written investment discretion with regard to participating customer accounts and makes the following information available to customers upon request:
(A) The general nature of the post-execution allocation methodology the banking institution will use;
(B) Whether the banking institution has any interest in accounts which may be included with customer accounts in bunched orders eligible for post-execution allocation; and
(C) Summary or composite data sufficient for that customer to compare the customer's results with those of other comparable customers and, if applicable, any account in which the banking institution has an interest.
(ii) Post-execution allocations are made as soon as practicable after the entire transaction is executed;
(iii) Post-execution allocations are fair and equitable, with no account or group of accounts receiving consistently favorable or unfavorable treatment; and
(iv) The post-execution allocation methodology is sufficiently objective and specific to permit the Board to verify fairness of the allocations using that methodology.
(f)
Record of monthly statements and confirmations.
A banking institution shall retain a copy of each monthly statement and confirmation required by § 240.10.
(g)
Form of record and manner of maintenance.
The records required by this section must clearly and accurately reflect the information required and provide an adequate basis for the audit of the information. A banking institution must create and maintain audio recordings of oral orders and oral offset instructions. Record maintenance may include the use of automated or electronic records provided that the records are easily retrievable, and readily available for inspection.
(h)
Length of maintenance.
A banking institution shall keep each record required by this section for at least five years from the date the record is created.
§ 240.8
Capital requirements.
(a)
Capital required for a state member bank.
A banking institution defined in section 240.2(b)(1) offering or entering into retail forex transactions must be well-capitalized as defined in section 208.43 of Regulation H (12 CFR 208.43).
(b)
Capital required for an uninsured state-licensed branch of a foreign bank.
A banking institution defined in § 240.2(b)(2) offering or entering into retail forex transactions must be well-capitalized under the capital rules made applicable to it pursuant to § 225.2(r)(3) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(r)(3)).
(c)
Capital required for financial holding companies and bank holding companies.
A banking institution defined in § 240.2(b)(3) or (4) offering or entering into retail forex transactions must be well-capitalized as defined in § 225.2(r) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(r)).
(d)
Capital required for savings and loan holding companies.
A banking institution defined in § 240.2(b)(5) offering or entering into retail forex transactions must be well-capitalized as defined in § 238.2(s) of Regulation LL (12 CFR 238.2(s)).
(e)
Capital required for an agreement corporation or Edge Act corporation.
A banking institution defined in § 240.2(b)(6) or (7) offering or entering into retail forex transactions must maintain capital in compliance with the capital adequacy guidelines that are made applicable to an Edge corporation engaged in banking pursuant to § 211.12 (c)(2) of Regulation K (12 CFR 211.12(c)(2)).
§ 240.9
Margin requirements.
(a)
Margin required.
A banking institution engaging, or offering to engage, in retail forex transactions must collect from each retail forex customer an amount of margin not less than:
(1) Two percent of the notional value of the retail forex transaction for major currency pairs and 5 percent of the notional value of the retail forex transaction for all other currency pairs;
(2) For short options, 2 percent for major currency pairs and 5 percent for all other currency pairs of the notional value of the retail forex transaction,
plus the premium received by the retail forex customer; or
(3) For long options, the full premium charged and received by the banking institution.
(b)(1)
Form of margin.
Margin collected under paragraph (a) of this section or pledged by a retail forex customer for retail forex transactions in excess of the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section must be in the form of cash or the following financial instruments:
(i) Obligations of the United States and obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States;
(ii) General obligations of any State or of any political subdivision thereof;
(iii) General obligations issued or guaranteed by any enterprise, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 4502(10);
(iv) Certificates of deposit issued by an insured depository institution, as defined in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2));
(v) Commercial paper;
(vi) Corporate notes or bonds;
(vii) General obligations of a sovereign nation;
(viii) Interests in money market mutual funds; and
(ix) Such other financial instruments as the Board deems appropriate.
(2)
Haircuts.
A banking institution shall establish written policies and procedures that include:
(i) Haircuts for noncash margin collected under this section; and
(ii) Annual evaluation, and, if appropriate, modification of the haircuts.
(c)
Major currencies.
(1) for the purposes of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, major currency means:
(i) United States Dollar (USD)
(ii) Canadian Dollar (CAD)
(iii) Euro (EUR)
(iv) United Kingdom Pound (GBP)
(v) Japanese Yen (JPY)
(vi) Swiss Franc (CHF)
(vii) New Zealand Dollar (NZD)
(viii) Australian Dollar (AUD)
(ix) Swedish Kronor (SEK)
(x) Danish Kroner (DKK)
(xi) Norwegian Krone (NOK), and
(xii) Any other currency as determined by the Board.
(d)
Margin calls; liquidation of position.
For each retail forex customer, at least once per day, a banking institution shall:
(1) Mark the value of the retail forex customer's open retail forex positions to market;
(2) Mark the value of the margin collected under this section from the retail forex customer to market;
(3) Determine whether, based on the marks in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, the banking institution has collected margin from the retail forex customer sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this section; and
(4) If, pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the banking institution determines that it has not collected margin from the retail forex customer sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this section then, within a reasonable period of time, the banking institution shall either:
(i) Collect margin from the retail forex customer sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this section; or
(ii) Liquidate the retail forex customer's retail forex transactions.
§ 240.10
Required reporting to customers.
(a)
Monthly statements.
Each banking institution must promptly furnish to each retail forex customer, as of the close of the last business day of each month or as of any regular monthly date selected, except for accounts in which there are neither open positions at the end of the statement period nor any changes to the account balance since the prior statement period, but in any event not less frequently than once every three months, a statement that clearly shows:
(1) For each retail forex customer:
(i) The open retail forex transactions with prices at which acquired;
(ii) The net unrealized profits or losses in all open retail forex transactions marked to the market;
(iii) Any money, securities or other property held as margin for retail forex transactions; and
(iv) A detailed accounting of all financial charges and credits to the retail forex customer's retail forex accounts during the monthly reporting period, including: money, securities, or
property received from or disbursed to such customer; realized profits and losses; and fees, charges, and commissions.
(2) For each retail forex customer engaging in retail forex transactions that are options:
(i) All such options purchased, sold, exercised, or expired during the monthly reporting period, identified by underlying retail forex transaction or underlying currency, strike price, transaction date, and expiration date;
(ii) The open option positions carried for such customer and arising as of the end of the monthly reporting period, identified by underlying retail forex transaction or underlying currency, strike price, transaction date, and expiration date;
(iii) All such option positions marked to the market and the amount each position is in the money, if any;
(iv) Any money, securities or other property held as margin for retail forex transactions; and
(v) A detailed accounting of all financial charges and credits to the retail forex customer's retail forex accounts during the monthly reporting period, including: money, securities, or property received from or disbursed to such customer; realized profits and losses; premiums and mark-ups; and fees, charges, and commissions.
(b)
Confirmation statement.
Each banking institution must, not later than the next business day after any retail forex transaction, send:
(1) To each retail forex customer, a written confirmation of each retail forex transaction caused to be executed by it for the customer, including offsetting transactions executed during the same business day and the rollover of an open retail forex transaction to the next business day;
(2) To each retail forex customer engaging in forex option transactions, a written confirmation of each forex option transaction, containing at least the following information:
(i) The retail forex customer's account identification number;
(ii) A separate listing of the actual amount of the premium, as well as each mark-up thereon, if applicable, and all other commissions, costs, fees and other charges incurred in connection with the forex option transaction;
(iii) The strike price;
(iv) The underlying retail forex transaction or underlying currency;
(v) The final exercise date of the forex option purchased or sold; and
(vi) The date the forex option transaction was executed.
(3) To each retail forex customer engaging in forex option transactions, upon the expiration or exercise of any option, a written confirmation statement thereof, which statement shall include the date of such occurrence, a description of the option involved, and, in the case of exercise, the details of the retail forex or physical currency position which resulted therefrom including, if applicable, the final trading date of the retail forex transaction underlying the option.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, a retail forex transaction that is caused to be executed for a pooled investment vehicle that engages in retail forex transactions need be confirmed only to the operator of such pooled investment vehicle.
(d)
Controlled accounts.
With respect to any account controlled by any person other than the retail forex customer for whom such account is carried, each banking institution shall promptly furnish in writing to such other person the information required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(e)
Introduced accounts.
Each statement provided pursuant to the provisions of this section must, if applicable, show that the account for which the banking institution was introduced by an introducing broker and the name of the introducing broker.
§ 240.11
Unlawful representations.
(a)
No implication or representation of limiting losses.
No banking institution engaged in retail foreign exchange transactions or its related persons may imply or represent that it will, with respect to any retail customer forex account, for or on behalf of any person:
(1) Guarantee such person or account against loss;
(2) Limit the loss of such person or account; or
(3) Not call for or attempt to collect margin as established for retail forex customers.
(b)
No implication of representation of engaging in prohibited acts.
No banking institution or its related persons may in any way imply or represent that it will engage in any of the acts or practices described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
No Federal government endorsement.
No banking institution or its related persons may represent or imply in any manner whatsoever that any retail forex transaction or retail forex product has been sponsored, recommended, or approved by the Board, the Federal government, or any agency thereof.
(d)
Assuming or sharing of liability from bank error.
This section shall not be construed to prevent a banking institution from assuming or sharing in the losses resulting from the banking institution's error or mishandling of a retail forex transaction.
(e)
Certain guaranties unaffected.
This section shall not affect any guarantee entered into prior to the effective date of this part, but this section shall apply to any extension, modification or renewal thereof entered into after such date.
§ 240.12
Authorization to trade.
(a)
Specific authorization required.
No banking institution may directly or indirectly effect a retail forex transaction for the account of any retail forex customer unless, before the transaction occurs, the retail forex customer specifically authorized the banking institution to effect the retail forex transaction.
(b) A retail forex transaction is “specifically authorized” for purposes of this section if the retail forex customer specifies:
(1) The precise retail forex transaction to be effected;
(2) The exact amount of the foreign currency to be purchased or sold; and
(3) In the case of an option, the identity of the foreign currency or contract that underlies the option.
§ 240.13
Trading and operational standards.
(a)
Internal rules, procedures, and controls required.
A banking institution engaging in retail forex transactions shall establish and implement internal rules, procedures, and controls designed, at a minimum, to:
(1) Ensure, to the extent reasonable, that each order received from a retail forex customer that is executable at or near the price that the banking institution has quoted to the customer is entered for execution before any order in any retail forex transaction for:
(i) A proprietary account;
(ii) An account in which a related person has an interest, or any account for which such a related person may originate orders without the prior specific consent of the account owner, if the related person has gained knowledge of the retail forex customer's order prior to the transmission of an order for a proprietary account;
(iii) An account in which a related person has an interest, if the related person has gained knowledge of the retail forex customer's order prior to the transmission of an order for a proprietary account; or
(iv) An account in which a related person may originate orders without the prior specific consent of the account owner, if the related person has gained knowledge of the retail forex customer's order prior to the transmission of an order for a proprietary account;
(2) Prevent banking institution related persons from placing orders, directly or indirectly, with another person in a manner designed to circumvent the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(3) Fairly and objectively establish settlement prices for retail forex transactions.
(b)
Disclosure of retail forex transactions.
No banking institution engaging in retail forex transactions may disclose that an order of another person is being held by the banking institution, unless the disclosure is necessary to the effective execution of such order or the disclosure is made at the request of the Board.
(c)
Handling of retail forex accounts of related persons of retail forex counterparties.
No banking institution engaging in retail forex transactions shall knowingly handle the retail forex account of any related person of another retail
forex counterparty unless the banking institution:
(1) Receives written authorization from a person designated by such other retail forex counterparty with responsibility for the surveillance over such account;
(2) Prepares immediately upon receipt of an order for the account a written record of the order, including the account identification and order number, and records thereon to the nearest minute, by time-stamp or other timing device, the date and time the order is received; and
(3) Transmits on a regular basis to the other retail forex counterparty copies of all statements for the account and of all written records prepared upon the receipt of orders for the account pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d)
Related person of banking institution establishing account at another retail forex counterparty.
No related person of a banking institution working in the banking institution's retail forex business may have an account, directly or indirectly, with another retail forex counterparty unless the other retail forex counterparty:
(1) Receives written authorization to open and maintain the account from a person designated by the banking institution of which it is a related person with responsibility for the surveillance over the account pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(2) Prepares immediately upon receipt of an order for the account a written record of the order, including the account identification and order number, and records thereon to the nearest minute, by time-stamp or other timing device, the date and time the order is received; and
(3) Transmits on a regular basis to the banking institution copies of all statements for the account and of all written records prepared by the other retail forex counterparty upon receipt of orders for such account pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Prohibited trading practices.
No banking institution engaging in retail forex transactions may:
(1) Enter into a retail forex transaction, to be executed pursuant to a market or limit order at a price that is not at or near the price at which other retail forex customers, during that same time period, have executed retail forex transactions with the banking institution;
(2) Adjust or alter prices for a retail forex transaction after the transaction has been confirmed to the retail forex customer;
(3) Provide a retail forex customer a new bid price for a retail forex transaction that is higher than its previous bid without providing a new asked price that is also higher than its previous asked price by a similar amount;
(4) Provide a retail forex customer a new bid price for a retail forex transaction that is lower than its previous bid without providing a new asked price that is also lower than its previous asked price by a similar amount; or
(5) Establish a new position for a retail forex customer (except one that offsets an existing position for that retail forex customer) where the banking institution holds outstanding orders of other retail forex customers for the same currency pair at a comparable price.
§ 240.14
Supervision.
(a)
Supervision by the banking institution.
A banking institution engaging in retail forex transactions shall diligently supervise the handling by its officers, employees, and agents (or persons occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) of all retail forex accounts carried, operated, or advised by the banking institution and all activities of its officers, employees, and agents (or persons occupying a similar status or performing a similar function) relating to its retail forex business.
(b)
Supervision by officers, employees, or agents.
An officer, employee, or agent of a banking institution must diligently supervise his or her subordinates' handling of all retail forex accounts at the banking institution and all the subordinates' activities relating to the banking institution's retail forex business.
§ 240.15
Notice of transfers.
(a)
Prior notice generally required.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of
this section, a banking institution must provide a retail forex customer with 30 days' prior notice of any assignment of any position or transfer of any account of the retail forex customer. The notice must include a statement that the retail forex customer is not required to accept the proposed assignment or transfer and may direct the banking institution to liquidate the positions of the retail forex customer or transfer the account to a retail forex counterparty of the retail forex customer's selection.
(b)
Exceptions.
The requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to transfers:
(1) Requested by the retail forex customer;
(2) Made by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation as receiver or conservator under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or other law; or
(3) Otherwise authorized by applicable law.
(c)
Obligations of transferee banking institution.
A banking institution to which retail forex accounts or positions are assigned or transferred under paragraph (a) of this section must provide to the affected retail forex customers the risk disclosure statements and forms of acknowledgment required by this part and receive the required signed acknowledgments within sixty days of such assignments or transfers. This requirement shall not apply if the banking institution has clear written evidence that the retail forex customer has received and acknowledged receipt of the required disclosure statements.
§ 240.16
Customer dispute resolution.
(a) No banking institution shall enter into any agreement or understanding with a retail forex customer in which the customer agrees, prior to the time a claim or grievance arises, to submit any claim or grievance regarding any retail forex transaction or disclosure to any settlement procedure.
(b)
Election of forum.
(1) Within 10 business days after the receipt of notice from the retail forex customer that the customer intends to submit a claim to arbitration, the banking institution shall provide the customer with a list of persons qualified in dispute resolution.
(2) The customer must, within 45 days after receipt of such list, notify the banking institution of the person selected. The customer's failure to provide such notice shall give the banking institution the right to select a person from the list.
(c)
Enforceability.
A dispute settlement procedure may require parties using the procedure to agree, under applicable state law, submission agreement, or otherwise, to be bound by an award rendered in the procedure if the agreement to submit the claim or grievance to the procedure was made after the claim or grievance arose. Any award so rendered by the procedure will be enforceable in accordance with applicable law.
(d)
Time limits for submission of claims.
The dispute settlement procedure used by the parties may not include any unreasonably short limitation period foreclosing submission of a customer's claims or grievances or counterclaims.
(e)
Counterclaims.
A procedure for the settlement of a retail forex customer's claims or grievances against a banking institution or employee thereof may permit the submission of a counterclaim in the procedure by a person against whom a claim or grievance is brought if the counterclaim:
(1) Arises out of the transaction or occurrence that is the subject of the retail forex customer's claim or grievance; and
(2) Does not require for adjudication the presence of essential witnesses, parties, or third persons over which the settlement process lacks jurisdiction.
(f)
Cross-border transactions.
This section shall not apply to transactions within the scope of sections 202, 302, and 305 of the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. 202, 302, and 305).
§ 240.17
Reservation of authority.
The Board may modify the disclosure, recordkeeping, capital and margin, reporting, business conduct, documentation, or other standards or requirements under this part for a specific retail forex transaction or a class of retail forex transactions if the Board determines that the modification is consistent with safety and soundness and the protection of retail forex customers.
Pt. 241

# PART 241—SECURITIES HOLDING COMPANIES (REGULATION OO)
Sec.
241.1
Authority and purpose.
241.2
Definitions.
241.3
Registration as a supervised securities holding company.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1850a.

# Source:
77 FR 32884, June 5, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 241.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Board pursuant to section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 1850a).
(b)
Purpose.
This part establishes the procedures by which a securities holding company may elect to register to be supervised by the Board.
§ 241.2
Definitions.
Except as defined below, terms used in this part have the same meaning given them in 12 CFR 225.2.
(a)
Securities holding company.
(1) A securities holding company means—
(i) Any company that directly or indirectly owns or controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, one or more brokers or dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and
(ii) Is required by a foreign regulator or provision of foreign law to be subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision.
(2) A securities holding company does not include a company that is—
(i) A nonbank financial company supervised by the Board pursuant to title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301
et seq.
);
(ii) An insured bank (other than an institution described in subparagraphs (D), (F), or (H) of section 2(c)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2))) or a savings association;
(iii) An affiliate of an insured bank (other than an institution described in subparagraphs (D), (F), or (H) of section 2(c)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2))) or an affiliate of a savings association;
(iv) A foreign bank, foreign company, or company that is described in section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(a));
(v) A foreign bank that controls, directly or indirectly, a corporation chartered under section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.
); or
(vi) Currently subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision by a foreign regulator.
(b)
Supervised securities holding company
means a securities holding company that is supervised by the Board pursuant to this part.
§ 241.3
Registration as a supervised securities holding company.
(a)
Registration
—(1)
Filing requirement.
A securities holding company may elect to register to become a supervised securities holding company by filing the appropriate form with the responsible Reserve Bank. The responsible Reserve Bank is determined by the Director of Banking Supervision and Regulation at the Board, or the Director's delegee.
(2)
Request for additional information.
The Board may, at any time, request additional information that it believes is necessary to complete the registration.
(3)
Complete filing.
A registration by a securities holding company is considered to be filed on the date that all information required on the appropriate form is received.
(b)
Effective date of registration
—(1)
In general.
A registration filed by a securities holding company under paragraph (a) of this section is effective on the 45th calendar day after the date that a complete filing is received by the responsible Reserve Bank.
(2)
Earlier notification that a registration is effective.
The Board may notify a securities holding company that its registration to become a supervised securities holding company is effective prior to the 45th calendar day after the date that a complete filing is received by the responsible Reserve Bank. Such a notification must be in writing.
(3)
Supervision and regulation of securities holding companies.
(i) Upon an effective registration and except as otherwise provided by order of the Board, a
supervised securities holding company shall be treated, and shall be subject to supervision and regulation by the Board, as if it were a bank holding company, or as otherwise appropriate to protect the safety and soundness of the supervised securities holding company and address the risks posed by such company to financial stability.
(ii) The provisions of section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
) do not apply to a supervised securities holding company.
Pt. 242

# PART 242—DEFINITIONS RELATING TO TITLE I OF THE DODD-FRANK ACT (REGULATION PP)
Sec.
242.1
Authority and purpose.
242.2
Definitions.
242.3
Nonbank companies “predominantly engaged” in financial activities.
242.4
Significant nonbank financial companies and significant bank holding companies.
Appendix A to Part 242—Financial Activities for Purposes of Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5311.

# Source:
78 FR 20776, Apr. 5, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 242.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Board pursuant to sections 102(a)(7) and (b) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) (12 U.S.C. 5311(a)(7) and (b)).
(b)
Purpose.
(1) This part establishes the criteria for determining if a company is “predominantly engaged in financial activities” as required under section 102(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5311(b)) for purposes of Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act.
(2) This part defines the terms “significant nonbank financial company” and “significant bank holding company” as provided in section 102(a)(6) of the Dodd-Frank Act for purposes of—
(i) Section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323) relating to the designation of nonbank financial companies by the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) for supervision by the Board; and
(ii) Section 165(d)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365(d)(2)) relating to the credit exposure reports required to be filed by—
(A) A nonbank financial company supervised by the Board; and
(B) A bank holding company or foreign bank subject to the Bank Holding Company Act (BHC Act) (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
) that is a bank holding company described in section 165(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365(a)).
[78 FR 20776, Apr. 5, 2013, as amended at 84 FR 59096, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 242.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply:
Applicable accounting standards.
The term “applicable accounting standards” with respect to a company means:
(1) U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), if the company uses GAAP in the ordinary course of its business in preparing its consolidated financial statements;
(2) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), if the company uses IFRS in the ordinary course of its business in preparing its consolidated financial statements, or
(3) Such other accounting standards that the Council, with respect to the definition of a nonbank financial company for purposes of Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act (other than with respect to the definition of a significant nonbank financial company), or the Board, with respect to the definition of a significant nonbank financial company, determines are appropriate on a case-by-case basis.
Foreign nonbank financial company.
The term “foreign nonbank financial company” means a company (other than a company that is, or is treated in the United States, as a bank holding company) that is—
(1) Incorporated or organized in a country other than the United States; and
(2) Predominantly engaged in (including through a branch in the United States) financial activities as defined in § 242.3 of this part.
Nonbank financial company.
The term “nonbank financial company” means a
U.S. nonbank financial company and a foreign nonbank financial company.
Nonbank financial company supervised by the Board.
The term “nonbank financial company supervised by the Board” means a nonbank financial company or other company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323) should be supervised by the Board and for which such determination is still in effect.
State.
The term “State” includes any State, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and the United States Virgin Islands.
U.S. nonbank financial company.
The term “U.S. nonbank financial company” means a company that—
(1) Is incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or any State;
(2) Is predominantly engaged in financial activities as defined in § 242.3 of this part; and
(3) Is not—
(i) A bank holding company;
(ii) A Farm Credit System institution chartered and subject to the provisions of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
);
(iii) A national securities exchange (or parent thereof), clearing agency (or parent thereof, unless the parent is a bank holding company), security-based swap execution facility, or security-based swap data repository that, in each case, is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as such; or
(iv) A board of trade designated as a contract market (or parent thereof), a derivatives clearing organization (or parent thereof, unless the parent is a bank holding company), a swap execution facility, or a swap data repository that, in each case, is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as such.
§ 242.3
Nonbank companies “predominantly engaged” in financial activities.
(a)
In general.
A company is “predominantly engaged in financial activities” for purposes of this section if—
(1) The consolidated annual gross financial revenues of the company in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years represent 85 percent or more of the company's consolidated annual gross revenues (as determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards) in that fiscal year;
(2) The consolidated total financial assets of the company as of the end of either of its two most recently completed fiscal years represent 85 percent or more of the company's consolidated total assets (as determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards) as of the end of that fiscal year; or
(3) The Council, with respect to the definition of a nonbank financial company for purposes of Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act (other than with respect to the definition of a significant nonbank financial company), or the Board, with respect to the definition of a significant nonbank financial company, determines, based on all the facts and circumstances, that—
(i) The consolidated annual gross financial revenues of the company represent 85 percent or more of the company's consolidated annual gross revenues; or
(ii) The consolidated total financial assets of the company represent 85 percent or more of the company's consolidated total assets.
(b)
Consolidated annual gross financial revenues.
For purposes of this section, the “consolidated annual gross financial revenues” of a company means that portion of the consolidated annual gross revenues of the company (as determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards) that are derived, directly or indirectly, by the company or any of its subsidiaries from—
(1) Activities that are financial in nature; or
(2) The ownership, control, or activities of an insured depository institution or any subsidiary of an insured depository institution.
(c)
Consolidated total financial assets.
For purposes of this section, the “consolidated total financial assets” of a company means that portion of the consolidated total assets of the company (as determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards) that are related to—
(1) Activities that are financial in nature; or
(2) The ownership, control, or activities of an insured depository institution or any subsidiary of an insured depository institution.
(d)
Activities that are financial in nature
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of determining whether a company is predominantly engaged in financial activities under this section, activities that are financial in nature are set forth in the appendix to this part. Nothing in this part limits the authority of the Board under any other provision of law or regulation to modify the activities determined to be financial in nature for purposes of this section or for purposes of the BHC Act or to provide interpretations of section 4(k) of the BHC Act.
(2)
Effect of other authority.
Any activity described in the appendix is financial in nature for purposes of this part regardless of whether—
(i) A bank holding company (including a financial holding company or a company that is, or is treated in the United States as, a bank holding company) may be authorized to engage in the activity, or own or control shares of a company engaged in such activity, under any other provisions of the BHC Act or other Federal law including, but not limited to, section 4(a)(2), section 4(c)(5), section 4(c)(6), section 4(c)(7), section 4(c)(9), or section 4(c)(13) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(a)(2), (c)(5), (c)(6), (c)(7), (c)(9), or (c)(13)) and the Board's implementing regulations; or
(ii) Other provisions of Federal or state law or regulations prohibit, restrict, or otherwise place conditions on the conduct of the activity by a bank holding company (including a financial holding company or a company that is, or is treated in the United States, as a bank holding company) or bank holding companies generally.
(e)
Rules of construction.
For purposes of determining whether a company is predominantly engaged in financial activities under this section—
(1)
Unconsolidated investments.
(i) Unless otherwise determined by the Council or the Board in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, revenues derived from, and assets related to, an investment by the company in an entity whose financial statements are not consolidated with those of the company are presumed to be financial in nature.
(ii) A company may seek to rebut the presumption described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section by providing evidence to the Council, with respect to the definition of a nonbank financial company for purposes of Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act (other than with respect to the definition of a significant nonbank financial company), or the Board, with respect to the definition of a significant nonbank financial company, that the shares or ownership interests are not held in connection with a bona fide merchant or investment banking activity, are not held in connection with the activity of investing for others, do not represent an investment in an entity engaged in activities that are financial in nature as defined in the appendix, or are not otherwise related to a financial activity.
(2)
Accounts receivable.
(i) Unless otherwise determined by the Council or the Board in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, an account receivable is presumed to be an asset related to the financial activity of extending credit.
(ii) A company may seek to rebut the presumption described in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section by providing evidence to the Council, with respect to the definition of a nonbank financial company for purposes of Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act (other than with respect to the definition of a significant nonbank financial company), or the Board, with respect to the definition of a significant nonbank financial company, that the account receivable is not related to a financial activity.
(3)
Goodwill.
Goodwill is excluded from a company's consolidated total assets and consolidated total financial assets.
(4)
Cash and cash equivalents.
(i) Cash is excluded from a company's consolidated total assets and consolidated total financial assets.
(ii) Cash equivalents are assets related to a financial activity.
(5)
Intangible assets.
Intangible assets are treated in the same manner as the transaction or asset that gives rise to the intangible asset.
§ 242.4
Significant nonbank financial companies and significant bank holding companies.
For purposes of Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)
Significant nonbank financial company.
A “significant nonbank financial company” means—
(1) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board; and
(2) Any other nonbank financial company that had $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets (as determined in accordance with applicable accounting standards) as of the end of its most recently completed fiscal year.
(b)
Significant bank holding company.
A “significant bank holding company” means any bank holding company or company that is, or is treated in the United States as, a bank holding company, that had $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets as of the end of the most recently completed calendar year, as reported on either the Federal Reserve's FR Y-9C (Consolidated Financial Statement for Holding Companies), or any successor form thereto, or the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q (Capital and Asset Report for Foreign Banking Organizations), or any successor form thereto.
[84 FR 59096, Nov. 1, 2019]
Pt. 242, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 242—Financial Activities for Purposes of Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act
(a) Lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding money or securities.
(b) Insuring, guaranteeing, or indemnifying against loss, harm, damage, illness, disability, or death, or providing and issuing annuities, and acting as principal, agent, or broker for purposes of the foregoing, in any state.
(c) Providing financial, investment, or economic advisory services, including advising an investment company (as defined in section 3 of the Investment Company Act of 1940).
(d) Issuing or selling instruments representing interests in pools of assets permissible for a bank to hold directly.
(e) Underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in securities.
(f) Engaging in any activity that the Board has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, which include—
(1)
Extending credit and servicing loans.
Making, acquiring, brokering, or servicing loans or other extensions of credit (including factoring, issuing letters of credit and accepting drafts) for the company's account or for the account of others.
(2)
Activities related to extending credit.
Any activity usual in connection with making, acquiring, brokering or servicing loans or other extensions of credit, including the following activities:
(i)
Real estate and personal property appraising.
Performing appraisals of real estate and tangible and intangible personal property, including securities.
(ii)
Arranging commercial real estate equity financing.
Acting as intermediary for the financing of commercial or industrial income-producing real estate by arranging for the transfer of the title, control, and risk of such a real estate project to one or more investors.
(iii)
Check-guaranty services.
Authorizing a subscribing merchant to accept personal checks tendered by the merchant's customers in payment for goods and services, and purchasing from the merchant validly authorized checks that are subsequently dishonored.
(iv)
Collection agency services.
Collecting overdue accounts receivable, either retail or commercial.
(v)
Credit bureau services.
Maintaining information related to the credit history of consumers and providing the information to a credit grantor who is considering a borrower's application for credit or who has extended credit to the borrower.
(vi)
Asset management, servicing, and collection activities.
Engaging under contract with a third party in asset management, servicing, and collection
1
of assets of a type that an insured depository institution may originate and own.
1
Asset management services include acting as agent in the liquidation or sale of loans and collateral for loans, including real estate and other assets acquired through foreclosure or in satisfaction of debts previously contracted.
(vii)
Acquiring debt in default.
Acquiring debt that is in default at the time of acquisition.
(viii)
Real estate settlement servicing.
Providing real estate settlement services.
2
2
For purposes of this section, real estate settlement services do not include providing title insurance as principal, agent, or broker.
(3)
Leasing personal or real property.
Leasing personal or real property or acting as agent, broker, or adviser in leasing such property if:
(i) The lease is on a nonoperating basis;
3
3
The requirement that the lease is on a nonoperating basis means that the company does not, directly or indirectly, engage in operating, servicing, maintaining, or repairing leased property during the lease term. For purposes of the leasing of automobiles, the requirement that the lease is on a nonoperating basis means that the company does not, directly or indirectly: (1) Provide servicing, repair, or maintenance of the leased vehicle during the lease term; (2) purchase parts and accessories in bulk or for an individual vehicle after the lessee has taken delivery of the vehicle; (3) provide the loan of an automobile during servicing of the leased vehicle; (4) purchase insurance for the lessee; or (5) provide for the renewal of the vehicle's license merely as a service to the lessee where the lessee could renew the license without authorization from the lessor.
(ii) The initial term of the lease is at least 90 days; and
(iii) In the case of leases involving real property:
(A) At the inception of the initial lease, the effect of the transaction will yield a return that will compensate the lessor for not less than the lessor's full investment in the property plus the estimated total cost of financing the property over the term of the lease from rental payments, estimated tax benefits, and the estimated residual value of the property at the expiration of the initial lease; and
(B) The estimated residual value of property for purposes of paragraph (f)(3)(iii)(A) of this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the acquisition cost of the property to the lessor.
(4)
Operating nonbank depository institutions.
(i)
Industrial banking.
Owning, controlling, or operating an industrial bank, Morris Plan bank, or industrial loan company that is not a bank for purposes of the BHC Act.
(ii)
Operating savings associations.
Owning, controlling, or operating a savings association.
(5)
Trust company functions.
Performing functions or activities that may be performed by a trust company (including activities of a fiduciary, agency, or custodial nature), in the manner authorized by federal or state law that is not a bank for purposes of section 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act.
(6)
Financial and investment advisory activities.
Acting as investment or financial advisor to any person, including (without, in any way, limiting the foregoing):
(i) Serving as investment adviser (as defined in section 2(a)(20) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(20)), to an investment company registered under that act, including sponsoring, organizing, and managing a closed-end investment company;
(ii) Furnishing general economic information and advice, general economic statistical forecasting services, and industry studies;
(iii) Providing advice in connection with mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, investments, joint ventures, leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations, capital structurings, financing transactions and similar transactions, and conducting financial feasibility studies;
4
4
Feasibility studies do not include assisting management with the planning or marketing for a given project or providing general operational or management advice.
(iv) Providing information, statistical forecasting, and advice with respect to any transaction in foreign exchange, swaps, and similar transactions, commodities, and any forward contract, option, future, option on a future, and similar instruments;
(v) Providing educational courses, and instructional materials to consumers on individual financial management matters; and
(vi) Providing tax-planning and tax-preparation services to any person.
(7)
Agency transactional services for customer investments.
(i)
Securities brokerage.
Providing securities brokerage services (including securities clearing and/or securities execution services on an exchange), whether alone or in combination with investment advisory services, and incidental activities (including related securities credit activities and custodial services).
(ii)
Riskless principal transactions.
Buying and selling in the secondary market all types of securities on the order of customers as a “riskless principal” to the extent of engaging in a transaction in which the company, after receiving an order to buy (or sell) a security from a customer, purchases (or sells) the security for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
(iii)
Private placement services.
Acting as agent for the private placement of securities in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (1933 Act) and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(iv)
Futures commission merchant.
Acting as a futures commission merchant for unaffiliated persons in the execution, clearance, or
execution and clearance of any futures contract and option on a futures contract.
(v)
Other transactional services.
Providing to customers as agent transactional services with respect to swaps and similar transactions, any transaction described in paragraph (f)(8) of this appendix, any transaction that is permissible for a state member bank, and any other transaction involving a forward contract, option, futures, option on a futures or similar contract (whether traded on an exchange or not) relating to a commodity that is traded on an exchange.
(8)
Investment transactions as principal.
(i)
Underwriting and dealing in government obligations and money market instruments.
Underwriting and dealing in obligations of the United States, general obligations of states and their political subdivisions, and other obligations that state member banks of the Federal Reserve System may be authorized to underwrite and deal in under 12 U.S.C. 24 and 335, including banker's acceptances and certificates of deposit.
(ii)
Investing and trading activities.
Engaging as principal in:
(A) Foreign exchange;
(B) Forward contracts, options, futures, options on futures, swaps, and similar contracts, whether traded on exchanges or not, based on any rate, price, financial asset (including gold, silver, platinum, palladium, copper, or any other metal), nonfinancial asset, or group of assets, other than a bank-ineligible security,
5
if—
5
A bank-ineligible security is any security that a state member bank is not permitted to underwrite or deal in under 12 U.S.C. 24 and 335.
(
1
) A state member bank is authorized to invest in the asset underlying the contract;
(
2
) The contract requires cash settlement;
(
3
) The contract allows for assignment, termination, or offset prior to delivery or expiration, and the company—
(
i
) Makes every reasonable effort to avoid taking or making delivery of the asset underlying the contract; or
(
ii
) Receives and instantaneously transfers title to the underlying asset, by operation of contract and without taking or making physical delivery of the asset; or
(
4
) The contract does not allow for assignment, termination, or offset prior to delivery or expiration and is based on an asset for which futures contracts or options on futures contracts have been approved for trading on a U.S. contract market by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, and the company—
(
i
) Makes every reasonable effort to avoid taking or making delivery of the asset underlying the contract; or
(
ii
) Receives and instantaneously transfers title to the underlying asset, by operation of contract and without taking or making physical delivery of the asset.
(C) Forward contracts, options,
6
futures, options on futures, swaps, and similar contracts, whether traded on exchanges or not, based on an index of a rate, a price, or the value of any financial asset, nonfinancial asset, or group of assets, if the contract requires cash settlement.
6
This reference does not include acting as a dealer in options based on indices of bank-ineligible securities when the options are traded on securities exchanges. These options are securities for purposes of the federal securities laws and bank-ineligible securities for purposes of section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act, 12 U.S.C. 337. Similarly, this reference does not include acting as a dealer in any other instrument that is a bank-ineligible security for purposes of section 20. Bank holding companies that deal in these instruments must do so in accordance with the Board's orders on dealing in bank-ineligible securities.
(iii)
Buying and selling bullion, and related activities.
Buying, selling and storing bars, rounds, bullion, and coins of gold, silver, platinum, palladium, copper, and any other metal for the company's own account and the account of others, and providing incidental services such as arranging for storage, safe custody, assaying, and shipment.
(9)
Management consulting and counseling activities.
(i)
Management consulting.
(A) Providing management consulting advice:
7
7
In performing this activity, companies are not authorized to perform tasks or operations or provide services to client institutions either on a daily or continuing basis, except as necessary to instruct the client institution on how to perform such services for itself.
See also
the Board's interpretation of bank management consulting advice (12 CFR 225.131).
(
1
) On any matter to unaffiliated depository institutions, including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, savings banks, credit unions, industrial banks, Morris Plan banks, cooperative banks, industrial loan companies, trust companies, and branches or agencies of foreign banks;
(
2
) On any financial, economic, accounting, or audit matter to any other company.
(B) Revenues derived from, or assets related to, a company's management consulting activities under this subparagraph will not be considered to be financial if the company:
(
1
) Owns or controls, directly or indirectly, more than 5 percent of the voting securities of the client institution; or
(
2
) Allows a management official, as defined in 12 CFR 212.2(h), of the company or
any of its affiliates to serve as a management official of the client institution, except where such interlocking relationship is permitted pursuant to an exemption permitted by the Board.
(C) Up to 30 percent of a nonbank company's assets or revenues related to management consulting services provided to customers not described in paragraph (f)(9)(i)(A)(
1
) or regarding matters not described in paragraph (f)(9)(i)(A)(
2
) of this appendix will be included in the company's financial assets or revenues.
(ii)
Employee benefits consulting services.
Providing consulting services to employee benefit, compensation and insurance plans, including designing plans, assisting in the implementation of plans, providing administrative services to plans, and developing employee communication programs for plans.
(iii)
Career counseling services.
Providing career counseling services to:
(A) A financial organization
8
and individuals currently employed by, or recently displaced from, a financial organization;
8
Financial organization refers to insured depository institution holding companies and their subsidiaries, other than nonbanking affiliates of diversified savings and loan holding companies that engage in activities not permissible under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)(8)).
(B) Individuals who are seeking employment at a financial organization; and
(C) Individuals who are currently employed in or who seek positions in the finance, accounting, and audit departments of any company.
(10)
Support services.
(i)
Courier services.
Providing courier services for:
(A) Checks, commercial papers, documents, and written instruments (excluding currency or bearer-type negotiable instruments) that are exchanged among banks and financial institutions; and
(B) Audit and accounting media of a banking or financial nature and other business records and documents used in processing such media.
9
9
See also the Board's interpretation on courier activities (12 CFR 225.129), which sets forth conditions for company entry into the activity.
(ii)
Printing and selling MICR-encoded items.
Printing and selling checks and related documents, including corporate image checks, cash tickets, voucher checks, deposit slips, savings withdrawal packages, and other forms that require Magnetic Ink Character Recognition (MICR) encoding.
(11)
Insurance agency and underwriting.
(i)
Credit insurance.
Acting as principal, agent, or broker for insurance (including home mortgage redemption insurance) that is:
(A) Directly related to an extension of credit by the company or any of its subsidiaries; and
(B) Limited to ensuring the repayment of the outstanding balance due on the extension of credit
10
in the event of the death, disability, or involuntary unemployment of the debtor.
10
Extension of credit includes direct loans to borrowers, loans purchased from other lenders, and leases of real or personal property so long as the leases are nonoperating and full-payout leases that meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this appendix.
(ii)
Finance company subsidiary.
Acting as agent or broker for insurance directly related to an extension of credit by a finance company
11
that is a subsidiary of a company, if:
11
Finance company includes all non-deposit-taking financial institutions that engage in a significant degree of consumer lending (excluding lending secured by first mortgages) and all financial institutions specifically defined by individual states as finance companies and that engage in a significant degree of consumer lending.
(A) The insurance is limited to ensuring repayment of the outstanding balance on such extension of credit in the event of loss or damage to any property used as collateral for the extension of credit; and
(B) The extension of credit is not more than $10,000, or $25,000 if it is to finance the purchase of a residential manufactured home
12
and the credit is secured by the home; and
12
These limitations increase at the end of each calendar year, beginning with 1982, by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(C) The applicant commits to notify borrowers in writing that:
(
1
) They are not required to purchase such insurance from the applicant;
(
2
) Such insurance does not insure any interest of the borrower in the collateral; and
(
3
) The applicant will accept more comprehensive property insurance in place of such single-interest insurance.
(iii)
Insurance in small towns.
Engaging in any insurance agency activity in a place where the company or a subsidiary has a lending office and that:
(A) Has a population not exceeding 5,000 (as shown in the preceding decennial census); or
(B) Has inadequate insurance agency facilities, as determined by the Board, after notice and opportunity for hearing.
(iv)
Insurance-agency activities conducted on May 1, 1982.
Engaging in any specific insurance-agency activity
13
if the company, or subsidiary conducting the specific activity, conducted such activity on May 1, 1982, or received Board approval to conduct such activity on or before May 1, 1982.
14
Revenues derived from, or assets related to, a company's specific insurance agency activity under this clause will be considered financial only if the company:
13
Nothing contained in this provision precludes a subsidiary that is authorized to engage in a specific insurance-agency activity under this clause from continuing to engage in the particular activity after merger with an affiliate, if the merger is for legitimate business purposes.
14
For the purposes of this paragraph, activities engaged in on May 1, 1982, include activities carried on subsequently as the result of an application to engage in such activities pending before the Board on May 1, 1982, and approved subsequently by the Board or as the result of the acquisition by such company pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on or before May 1, 1982, of another company engaged in such activities at the time of the acquisition.
(A) Engages in such specific insurance agency activity only at locations:
(
1
) In the state in which the company has its principal place of business (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1842(d));
(
2
) In any state or states immediately adjacent to such state; and
(
3
) In any state in which the specific insurance-agency activity was conducted (or was approved to be conducted) by such company or subsidiary thereof or by any other subsidiary of such company on May 1, 1982; and
(B) Provides other insurance coverages that may become available after May 1, 1982, so long as those coverages insure against the types of risks as (or are otherwise functionally equivalent to) coverages sold or approved to be sold on May 1, 1982, by the company or subsidiary.
(v)
Supervision of retail insurance agents.
Supervising on behalf of insurance underwriters the activities of retail insurance agents who sell:
(A) Fidelity insurance and property and casualty insurance on the real and personal property used in the operations of the company or its subsidiaries; and
(B) Group insurance that protects the employees of the company or its subsidiaries.
(vi)
Small companies.
Engaging in any insurance-agency activity if the company has total consolidated assets of $50 million or less. Revenues derived from, or assets related to, a company's insurance-agency activities under this paragraph will be considered financial only if the company does not engage in the sale of life insurance or annuities except as provided in paragraphs (f)(11) (i) and (iii) of this appendix, and does not continue to engage in insurance-agency activities pursuant to this provision more than 90 days after the end of the quarterly reporting period in which total assets of the company and its subsidiaries exceed $50 million.
(vii)
Insurance-agency activities conducted before 1971.
Engaging in any insurance-agency activity performed at any location in the United States directly or indirectly by a company that was engaged in insurance-agency activities prior to January 1, 1971, as a consequence of approval by the Board prior to January 1, 1971.
(12)
Community development activities.
(i)
Financing and investment activities.
Making equity and debt investments in corporations or projects designed primarily to promote community welfare, such as the economic rehabilitation and development of low-income areas by providing housing, services, or jobs for residents.
(ii)
Advisory activities.
Providing advisory and related services for programs designed primarily to promote community welfare.
(13)
Money orders, savings bonds, and traveler's checks.
The issuance and sale at retail of money orders and similar consumer-type payment instruments; the sale of U.S. savings bonds; and the issuance and sale of traveler's checks.
(14)
Data processing.
(i) Providing data processing, data storage and data transmission services, facilities (including data processing, data storage and data transmission hardware, software, documentation, or operating personnel), databases, advice, and access to such services, facilities, or data-bases by any technological means, if the data to be processed, stored or furnished are financial, banking or economic.
(ii) Up to 30 percent of a nonbank company's assets or revenues related to providing general purpose hardware in connection with providing data processing products or services described in paragraph (f)(14)(i) of this appendix will be included in the company's financial assets or revenues.
(15)
Administrative services.
Providing administrative and other services to mutual funds.
(16)
Securities exchange.
Owning shares of a securities exchange.
(17)
Certification authority.
Acting as a certification authority for digital signatures and authenticating the identity of persons conducting financial and nonfinancial transactions.
(18)
Employment histories.
Providing employment histories to third parties for use in making credit decisions and to depository institutions and their affiliates for use in the ordinary course of business.
(19)
Check cashing and wire transmission.
Check cashing and wire transmission services.
(20)
Services offered in connection with banking services.
In connection with offering banking services, providing notary public services, selling postage stamps and postage-paid envelopes, providing vehicle registration services, and selling public transportation tickets and tokens.
(21)
Real estate title abstracting.
(g) Engaging, in the United States, in any activity that a bank holding company may engage in outside of the United States; and the Board has determined, under regulations prescribed or interpretations issued pursuant to section 4(c)(13) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(13)) to be usual in connection with the transaction of banking or other financial operations abroad. Those activities include—
(1) Providing management consulting services, including to any person with respect to nonfinancial matters, so long as the management consulting services are advisory and do not allow the company to control the person to which the services are provided.
(2) Operating a travel agency in connection with financial services.
(3) Organizing, sponsoring, and managing a mutual fund.
(4) Commercial banking and other banking activities.
(h) Directly, or indirectly acquiring or controlling, whether as principal, on behalf of 1 or more entities, or otherwise, shares, assets, or ownership interests (including debt or equity securities, partnership interests, trust certificates, or other instruments representing ownership) of a company or other entity, whether or not constituting control of such company or entity, engaged in any activity not financial in nature as defined in this appendix if:
(1) Such shares, assets, or ownership interests are acquired and held as part of a bona fide underwriting or merchant or investment banking activity, including investment activities engaged in for the purpose of appreciation and ultimate resale or disposition of the investment;
(2) Such shares, assets, or ownership interests are held for a period of time to enable the sale or disposition thereof on a reasonable basis consistent with the financial viability of the activities described in paragraph (h)(1) of this appendix; and
(3) During the period such shares, assets, or ownership interests are held, the company does not routinely manage or operate such company or entity except as may be necessary or required to obtain a reasonable return on investment upon resale or disposition.
(i) Directly or indirectly acquiring or controlling, whether as principal, on behalf of 1 or more entities, or otherwise, shares, assets, or ownership interests (including debt or equity securities, partnership interests, trust certificates or other instruments representing ownership) of a company or other entity, whether or not constituting control of such company or entity, engaged in any activity not financial in nature as defined in this appendix if—
(1) Such shares, assets, or ownership interests are acquired and held by an insurance company that is predominantly engaged in underwriting life, accident and health, or property and casualty insurance (other than credit-related insurance) or providing and issuing annuities;
(2) Such shares, assets, or ownership interests represent an investment made in the ordinary course of business of such insurance company in accordance with relevant state law governing such investments; and
(3) During the period such shares, assets, or ownership interests are held, the company does not routinely manage or operate such company except as may be necessary or required to obtain a reasonable return on investment.
(j) Lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others, or safeguarding financial assets other than money or securities.
(k) Providing any device or other instrumentality for transferring money or other financial assets.
(l) Arranging, effecting, or facilitating financial transactions for the account of third parties.
Pt. 243

# PART 243—RESOLUTION PLANS (REGULATION QQ)
Sec.
243.1
Authority and scope.
243.2
Definitions.
243.3
Critical operations.
243.4
Resolution plan required.
243.5
Informational content of a full resolution plan.
243.6
Informational content of a targeted resolution plan.
243.7
Informational content of a reduced resolution plan.
243.8
Review of resolution plans; resubmission of deficient resolution plans.
243.9
Failure to cure deficiencies on resubmission of a resolution plan.
243.10
Consultation.
243.11
No limiting effect or private right of action; confidentiality of resolution plans.
243.12
Enforcement.
243.13
Additional covered companies.

# Source:
84 FR 59216, 59227, Nov. 1, 2019, unless otherwise noted.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5265.
§ 243.1
Authority and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued pursuant to section 165(d)(8) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 1426-1427), as amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1296) (the
Dodd-Frank Act
), 12 U.S.C. 5365(d)(8), which requires the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Corporation) to jointly issue rules implementing the provisions of section 165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Board is also issuing this part pursuant to section 165(a)(2)(C) of the Dodd-Frank Act.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to each covered company and establishes rules and requirements regarding the submission and content of a resolution plan, as well as procedures for review by the Board and Corporation of a resolution plan.
[84 FR 59216, Nov. 1, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 59227, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 243.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Bankruptcy Code
means Title 11 of the United States Code.
Biennial filer
is defined in § 243.4(a)(1).
Category II banking organization
means a covered company that is a category II banking organization pursuant to § 252.5 of this title.
Category III banking organization
means a covered company that is a category III banking organization pursuant to § 252.5 of this title.
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, depository institution, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization, but does not include any organization, the majority of the voting securities of which are owned by the United States.
Control.
A company controls another company when the first company, directly or indirectly, owns, or holds with power to vote, 25 percent or more of any class of the second company's outstanding voting securities.
Core business lines
means those business lines of the covered company, including associated operations, services, functions and support, that, in the view of the covered company, upon failure would result in a material loss of revenue, profit, or franchise value.
Core elements
mean the information required to be included in a full resolution plan pursuant to § 243.5(c), (d)(1)(i), (iii), and (iv), (e)(1)(ii), (e)(2), (3), and (5), (f)(1)(v), and (g) regarding capital, liquidity, and the covered company's plan for executing any recapitalization contemplated in its resolution plan, including updated quantitative financial information and analyses important to the execution of the covered company's resolution strategy.
Council
means the Financial Stability Oversight Council established by section 111 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5321).
Covered company
—(1)
In general.
A covered company means:
(i) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board;
(ii) Any global systemically important BHC;
(iii) Any bank holding company, as that term is defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841), and part 225 of this title (the Board's Regulation Y), that has $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as determined based on the average of the company's four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-9C; provided that in the case of a company whose total consolidated assets have increased as the result of a merger, acquisition, combination, or similar transaction, the Board and the Corporation may alternatively consider, in their discretion, to the extent and in the manner the Board and the Corporation jointly consider to be appropriate, one or more of the four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-9C or Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q of the companies that were party to the merger, acquisition, combination or similar transaction;
(iv) Any foreign bank or company that is a bank holding company or is treated as a bank holding company under section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)), and that has $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as determined annually based on the foreign bank's or company's most recent annual or, as applicable, quarterly based on the average of the foreign bank's or company's four most recent quarterly Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q; provided that in the case of a company whose total consolidated assets have increased as the result of a merger, acquisition, combination, or similar transaction, the Board and the Corporation may alternatively consider, in their discretion, to the extent and in the manner the Board and the Corporation jointly consider to be appropriate, one or more of the four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-9C or Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations as reported on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q of the companies that were party to the merger, acquisition, combination or similar transaction; and
(v) Any additional covered company as determined pursuant to § 243.13.
(2)
Cessation of covered company status for nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board and global systemically important BHCs.
Once a covered company meets the requirements described in paragraph (1)(i) or (ii) of this definition of covered company, the company shall remain a covered company until it no longer meets any of the requirements described in paragraph (1) of this definition of covered company.
(3)
Cessation of covered company status for other covered companies.
Once a company meets the requirements described in paragraph (1)(iii) or (iv) of this definition of covered company, the company shall remain a covered company until—
(i) In the case of a covered company described in paragraph (1)(iii) of this definition of covered company or a covered company described in paragraph (1)(iv) of this definition of covered company that files quarterly Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q, the company has reported total consolidated assets that are below $250 billion for each of four consecutive quarters, as determined based on its total consolidated assets as reported on each of its four most recent Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-9C or Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q, as applicable; or
(ii) In the case of a covered company described in paragraph (1)(iv) of this definition of covered company that does not file quarterly Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q, the company has reported total consolidated assets that are below $250 billion for each of two consecutive years, as determined based on its total consolidated assets as reported on each of its two most recent annual Capital and Asset Reports for Foreign Banking Organizations on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q, or such earlier time as jointly determined by the Board and the Corporation.
(4)
Multi-tiered holding company.
In a multi-tiered holding company structure, covered company means the top-tier of the multi-tiered holding company unless the Board and the Corporation jointly identify a different holding company to satisfy the requirements that apply to the covered company. In making this determination, the Board and the Corporation shall consider:
(i) The ownership structure of the foreign banking organization, including whether the foreign banking organization is owned or controlled by a foreign government;
(ii) Whether the action would be consistent with the purposes of this part; and
(iii) Any other factors that the Board and the Corporation determine are relevant.
(5)
Asset threshold for bank holding companies and foreign banking organizations.
The Board may, pursuant to a recommendation of the Council, raise
any asset threshold specified in paragraph (1)(iii) or (iv) of this definition of covered company.
(6)
Exclusion.
A bridge financial company chartered pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(h) shall not be deemed to be a covered company hereunder.
Critical operations
means those operations of the covered company, including associated services, functions and support, the failure or discontinuance of which would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
Deficiency
is defined in § 243.8(b).
Depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(1)) and includes a state-licensed uninsured branch, agency, or commercial lending subsidiary of a foreign bank.
Foreign banking organization
means—
(1) A foreign bank, as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)), that:
(i) Operates a branch, agency, or commercial lending company subsidiary in the United States;
(ii) Controls a bank in the United States; or
(iii) Controls an Edge corporation acquired after March 5, 1987; and
(2) Any company of which the foreign bank is a subsidiary.
Foreign-based covered company
means any covered company that is not incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States.
Full resolution plan
means a full resolution plan described in § 243.5.
Functionally regulated subsidiary
has the same meaning as in section 5(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1844(c)(5)).
Global systemically important BHC
means a covered company that is a global systemically important BHC pursuant to § 252.5 of this title.
Identified critical operations
means the critical operations of the covered company identified by the covered company or jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation under § 243.3(b)(2).
Material change
means an event, occurrence, change in conditions or circumstances, or other change that results in, or could reasonably be foreseen to have, a material effect on:
(1) The resolvability of the covered company;
(2) The covered company's resolution strategy; or
(3) How the covered company's resolution strategy is implemented. Such changes include, but are not limited to:
(i) The identification of a new critical operation or core business line;
(ii) The identification of a new material entity or the de-identification of a material entity;
(iii) Significant increases or decreases in the business, operations, or funding or interconnections of a material entity; or
(iv) Changes in the primary regulatory authorities of a material entity or the covered company on a consolidated basis.
Material entity
means a subsidiary or foreign office of the covered company that is significant to the activities of an identified critical operation or core business line, or is financially or operationally significant to the resolution of the covered company.
Material financial distress
with regard to a covered company means that:
(1) The covered company has incurred, or is likely to incur, losses that will deplete all or substantially all of its capital, and there is no reasonable prospect for the company to avoid such depletion;
(2) The assets of the covered company are, or are likely to be, less than its obligations to creditors and others; or
(3) The covered company is, or is likely to be, unable to pay its obligations (other than those subject to a bona fide dispute) in the normal course of business.
Nonbank financial company supervised by the Board
means a nonbank financial company or other company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323) shall be supervised by the Board and for which such determination is still in effect.
Rapid and orderly resolution
means a reorganization or liquidation of the covered company (or, in the case of a covered company that is incorporated or organized in a jurisdiction other than the United States, the subsidiaries and operations of such foreign company that are domiciled in the
United States) under the Bankruptcy Code that can be accomplished within a reasonable period of time and in a manner that substantially mitigates the risk that the failure of the covered company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the United States.
Reduced resolution plan
means a reduced resolution plan described in § 243.7.
Shortcoming
is defined in § 243.8(e).
Subsidiary
means a company that is controlled by another company, and an indirect subsidiary is a company that is controlled by a subsidiary of a company.
Targeted resolution plan
means a targeted resolution plan described in § 243.6.
Triennial full filer
is defined in § 243.4(b)(1).
Triennial reduced filer
is defined in § 243.4(c)(1).
United States
means the United States and includes any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.
§ 243.3
Critical operations.
(a)
Identification of critical operations by covered companies
—(1)
Process and methodology required.
(i) Each biennial filer and triennial full filer shall establish and implement a process designed to identify each of its critical operations. After July 1, 2022, each triennial reduced filer that has any identified critical operation shall establish and implement a process designed to identify each of its critical operations. The scale of the process must be appropriate to the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the covered company's operations. The covered company must review its process periodically and update it as necessary to ensure its continued effectiveness. The covered company shall describe its process and how it is applied as part of its corporate governance relating to resolution planning under § 243.5(d)(1). The covered company must conduct the process described in this paragraph (a)(1) sufficiently in advance of its next resolution plan submission so that the covered company is prepared to submit the information required under §§ 243.5 through 243.7 for each identified critical operation.
(ii) The process required under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section must include a methodology for evaluating the covered company's participation in activities and markets that may be critical to the financial stability of the United States. The methodology must be designed, taking into account the nature, size, complexity, and scope of the covered company's operations, to identify and assess:
(A) The markets and activities in which the covered company participates or has operations;
(B) The significance of those markets and activities with respect to the financial stability of the United States; and
(C) The significance of the covered company as a provider or other participant in those markets and activities.
(2)
Waiver requests.
A covered company that has previously submitted a resolution plan under this part may request a waiver of the requirement to have a process and methodology under paragraph (a)(1) of this section by submitting a waiver request in accordance with this paragraph (a)(2) if the covered company does not have an identified critical operation as of the date it submits the waiver request.
(i) Each waiver request shall be divided into a public section and a confidential section. A covered company shall segregate and separately identify the public section from the confidential section. A covered company shall include in the confidential section of a waiver request its rationale for why a waiver of the requirement would be appropriate, including an explanation of why the process and methodology are not likely to identify any critical operation given its business model, operations, and organizational structure. A covered company shall describe in the public section of a waiver request that it is seeking to waive the requirement.
(ii) Any waiver request must be made in writing no later than 18 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit its next resolution plan. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, with respect to any resolution plan that a covered company is required to submit on or before July 1, 2021, any waiver request must be made in writing no later than 17 months before that date.
(iii) The Board and Corporation may jointly approve or deny a waiver request in their discretion. Unless the Board and the Corporation have jointly approved a waiver request, the waiver request will be deemed denied on the date that is 12 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit the resolution plan that immediately follows submission of the waiver request.
(iv) An approved waiver request under this paragraph (a)(2) is effective for the resolution plan submission that immediately follows submission of the waiver request and for any resolution plan submitted thereafter until, but not including, the covered company's next full resolution plan submission.
(3)
Limited exemption.
A foreign-based covered company is exempt from the requirement to have a process and methodology under paragraph (a)(1) of this section in connection with any requirement to submit a resolution plan on or before July 1, 2021 if the foreign-based covered company does not have an identified critical operation as of the date that is 17 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit the resolution plan.
(b)
Joint identification of critical operations by the Board and the Corporation.
(1) The Board and the Corporation shall, not less frequently than every six years, jointly review the operations of covered companies to determine whether to jointly identify critical operations of any covered company in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or to jointly rescind any currently effective joint identification in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) If the Board and the Corporation jointly identify a covered company's operation as a critical operation, the Board and the Corporation shall jointly notify the covered company in writing. A covered company is not required to include the information required under §§ 243.5 through 243.7 for the identified critical operation in any resolution plan that the covered company is required to submit within 12 months after the joint notification unless the operation had been identified by the covered company as a critical operation on or before the date the Board and the Corporation jointly notified the covered company.
(3) The Board and the Corporation may jointly rescind a joint identification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section by providing the covered company with joint notice of the rescission. Upon the notification, the covered company is not required to include the information regarding the operation required for identified critical operations under §§ 243.5 through 243.7 in any subsequent resolution plan unless:
(i) The covered company identifies the operation as a critical operation; or
(ii) The Board and the Corporation subsequently provide a joint notification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to the covered company regarding the operation.
(4) A joint notification provided by the Board and the Corporation to a covered company before [effective date of final rule] that identifies any of its operations as a critical operation and not previously jointly rescinded is deemed to be a joint identification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Request for reconsideration of jointly identified critical operations.
A covered company may request that the Board and the Corporation reconsider a joint identification under paragraph (b)(2) of this section in accordance with this paragraph (c).
(1)
Written request for reconsideration.
The covered company must submit a written request for reconsideration to the Board and the Corporation that includes a clear and complete statement of all arguments and all relevant, material information that the covered company expects to have considered. If a covered company has previously requested reconsideration regarding the operation, the written request must also describe the material differences between the new request and the most recent prior request.
(2)
Timing.
(i) If a covered company submits a request for reconsideration on or before the date that is 18 months before the date by which it is required
to submit its next resolution plan, the Board and the Corporation will complete their reconsideration no later than 12 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit its next resolution plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Board and the Corporation jointly find that additional information from the covered company is required to complete their reconsideration, the Board and the Corporation will jointly request in writing the additional information from the covered company. The Board and the Corporation will then complete their reconsideration no later than the later of:
(A) Ninety (90) days after receipt of all additional information from the covered company; and
(B) Twelve (12) months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit its next resolution plan.
(ii) If a covered company submits a request for reconsideration less than 18 months before the date by which it is required to submit its next resolution plan, the Board and the Corporation may, in their discretion, defer reconsideration of the joint identification until after the submission of that resolution plan, with the result that the covered company must include the identified critical operation in that resolution plan and the Board and the Corporation will complete their reconsideration in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section as though the covered company had submitted the request after the date by which the covered company is required to submit that resolution plan.
(3)
Joint communication following reconsideration.
The Board and the Corporation will communicate jointly the results of their reconsideration in writing to the covered company.
(d)
De-identification by covered company of self-identified critical operations.
A covered company may cease to include in its resolution plans the information required under §§ 243.5 through 243.7 regarding an operation previously identified only by the covered company (and not also jointly by the Board and the Corporation) as a critical operation only in accordance with this paragraph (d).
(1)
Notice of de-identification.
If a covered company ceases to identify an operation as a critical operation, the covered company must notify the Board and the Corporation of its de-identification. The notice must be in writing and include a clear and complete explanation of:
(i) Why the covered company previously identified the operation as a critical operation; and
(ii) Why the covered company no longer identifies the operation as a critical operation.
(2)
Timing.
Notwithstanding a covered company's de-identification, and unless otherwise notified in writing jointly by the Board and the Corporation, a covered company shall include the applicable information required under §§ 243.5 through 243.7 regarding an operation previously identified by the covered company as a critical operation in any resolution plan the covered company is required to submit during the period ending 12 months after the covered company notifies the Board and the Corporation in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3)
No effect on joint identifications.
Neither a covered company's de-identification nor notice thereof under paragraph (d)(1) of this section rescinds a joint identification made by the Board and the Corporation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
§ 243.4
Resolution plan required.
(a)
Biennial filers
—(1)
Group members.
Biennial filer means:
(i) Any global systemically important BHC; and
(ii) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that has not been jointly designated a triennial full filer by the Board and Corporation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or that has been jointly re-designated a biennial filer by the Board and the Corporation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Nonbank financial companies.
The Board and the Corporation may jointly designate a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board as a triennial full filer in their discretion, taking into account facts and circumstances that each of the Board and
the Corporation in its discretion determines to be relevant. The Board and the Corporation may in their discretion jointly re-designate as a biennial filer a nonbank financial company that the Board and the Corporation had previously designated as a triennial filer, taking into account facts and circumstances that each of the Board and the Corporation in its discretion determines to be relevant.
(3)
Frequency of submission.
Biennial filers shall each submit a resolution plan to the Board and the Corporation every two years.
(4)
Submission date.
Biennial filers shall submit their resolution plans on or before July 1 of each year in which a resolution plan is due.
(5)
Type of resolution plan required to be submitted.
Biennial filers shall alternate submitting a full resolution plan and a targeted resolution plan.
(6)
New covered companies that are biennial filers.
A company that becomes a covered company and a biennial filer after [effective date of final rule] shall submit a full resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other biennial filers are required to submit resolution plans pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the company became a covered company. The company's subsequent resolution plans shall be of the type required to be submitted by the other biennial filers.
(b)
Triennial full filers
—(1)
Group members.
Triennial full filer means:
(i) Any category II banking organization;
(ii) Any category III banking organization; and
(iii) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that is jointly designated a triennial full filer by the Board and Corporation under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Frequency of submission.
Triennial full filers shall each submit a resolution plan to the Board and the Corporation every three years.
(3)
Submission date.
Triennial full filers shall submit their resolution plans on or before July 1 of each year in which a resolution plan is due.
(4)
Type of resolution plan required to be submitted.
Triennial full filers shall alternate submitting a full resolution plan and a targeted resolution plan.
(5)
New covered companies that are triennial full filers.
A company that becomes a covered company and a triennial full filer after [effective date of final rule] shall submit a full resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other triennial full filers are required to submit resolution plans pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the company became a covered company. The company's subsequent resolution plans shall be of the type required to be submitted by the other triennial full filers.
(c)
Triennial reduced filers
—(1)
Group members.
Triennial reduced filer means any covered company that is not a global systemically important BHC, nonbank financial company supervised by the Board, category II banking organization, or category III banking organization.
(2)
Frequency of submission.
Triennial reduced filers shall each submit a resolution plan to the Board and the Corporation every three years.
(3)
Submission date.
Triennial reduced filers shall submit their resolution plans on or before July 1 of each year in which a resolution plan is due.
(4)
Type of resolution plan required to be submitted.
Triennial reduced filers shall submit a reduced resolution plan.
(5)
New covered companies that are triennial reduced filers.
A company that becomes a covered company and a triennial reduced filer after December 31, 2019 shall submit a full resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other triennial reduced filers are required to submit resolution plans pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the company became a covered company. The company's subsequent resolution plans shall be reduced resolution plans.
(d)
General
—(1)
Changing filing groups.
If a covered company that is a member of a filing group specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section (“original group filer”) becomes a member of a different filing group specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section (“new group filer”), then
the covered company shall submit its next resolution plan as follows:
(i) If the next date by which the original group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans is the same date by which the other new group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans and:
(A) That date is less than 12 months after the date as of which the covered company became a new group filer, the covered company shall submit its next resolution plan on or before that date. The resolution plan may be the type of resolution plan that the original group filers are required to submit on or before that date or the type of resolution plan that the other new group filers are required to submit on or before that date.
(B) That date is 12 months or more after the date as of which the covered company became a new group filer, the covered company shall submit on or before that date the type of resolution plan the other new group filers are required to submit on or before that date.
(ii) If the next date by which the original group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans is different from the date by which the new group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans, the covered company shall submit its next resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other new group filers are required to submit a resolution plan that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the covered company became a new group filer. The covered company shall submit the type of resolution plan that the other new group filers are required to submit on or before the date the covered company is required to submit its next resolution plan.
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, any triennial reduced filer that becomes a biennial filer or a triennial full filer shall submit a full resolution plan on or before the next date by which the other new group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans that occurs no earlier than 12 months after the date as of which the covered company became a new group filer. After submitting a full resolution plan, the covered company shall submit, on or before the next date that the other new group filers are required to submit their next resolution plans, the type of resolution plan the other new group filers are required to submit on or before that date.
(2)
Altering submission dates.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this part, the Board and Corporation may jointly determine that a covered company shall submit its resolution plan on or before a date other than as provided in paragraphs (a) through (c) or paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The Board and the Corporation shall provide a covered company with written notice of a determination under this paragraph (d)(2) no later than 12 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit the resolution plan.
(3)
Authority to require interim updates.
The Board and the Corporation may jointly require that a covered company submit an update to a resolution plan submitted under this part, within a reasonable amount of time, as jointly determined by the Board and Corporation. The Board and the Corporation shall notify the covered company of its requirement to submit an update under this paragraph (d)(3) in writing, and shall specify the portions or aspects of the resolution plan the covered company shall update.
(4)
Notice of extraordinary events
—(i)
In general.
Each covered company shall provide the Board and the Corporation with a notice no later than 45 days after any material merger, acquisition of assets, or similar transaction or fundamental change to the covered company's resolution strategy. Such notice must describe the event and explain how the event affects the resolvability of the covered company. The covered company shall address any event with respect to which it has provided notice pursuant to this paragraph (d)(4)(i) in the following resolution plan submitted by the covered company.
(ii)
Exception.
A covered company shall not be required to submit a notice under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section if the date by which the covered company would be required to submit the notice under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section would be within 90 days before
the date by which the covered company is required to submit a resolution plan under this section.
(5)
Authority to require a full resolution plan submission.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this part, the Board and Corporation may jointly require a covered company to submit a full resolution plan instead of a targeted resolution plan or a reduced resolution plan that the covered company is otherwise required to submit under this section. The Board and the Corporation shall provide a covered company with written notice of a determination under this paragraph (d)(5) no later than 12 months before the date by which the covered company is required to submit the full resolution plan. The date on or before which a full resolution plan must be submitted under this paragraph (d)(5) will be the date by which the covered company would otherwise be required to submit its upcoming targeted resolution plan or reduced resolution plan under paragraphs (a) through (c), or (d)(1) or (2) of this section. The requirement to submit a full resolution plan under this paragraph (d)(5) does not alter the type of resolution plan the covered company will subsequently be required to submit under this section.
(6)
Waivers
—(i)
Authority to waive requirements.
The Board and the Corporation may jointly waive one or more of the resolution plan requirements of § 243.5, § 243.6, or § 243.7 for one or more covered companies for any number of resolution plan submissions. A request pursuant to paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section is not required for the Board and Corporation to exercise their authority under this paragraph (d)(6)(i).
(ii)
Waiver requests by covered companies.
In connection with the submission of a full resolution plan, a triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer that has previously submitted a resolution plan under this part may request a waiver of one or more of the informational content requirements of § 243.5 in accordance with this paragraph (d)(6)(ii).
(A) A requirement to include any of the following information is not eligible for a waiver at the request of a triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer:
(
1
) Information specified in section 165(d)(1)(A) through (C) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365(d)(1)(A) through (C));
(
2
) Any core element;
(
3
) Information required to be included in the public section of a full resolution plan under § 243.11(c)(2);
(
4
) Information about the remediation of any previously identified deficiency or shortcoming unless the Board and the Corporation have jointly determined that the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer has satisfactorily remedied the deficiency or addressed the shortcoming before its submission of the waiver request; or
(
5
) Information about changes to the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer's last submitted resolution plan resulting from any:
(
i
) Change in law or regulation;
(
ii
) Guidance or feedback from the Board and the Corporation; or
(
iii
) Any material change experienced by the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer since it submitted that resolution plan.
(B) Each waiver request shall be divided into a public section and a confidential section. A triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer shall segregate and separately identify the public section from the confidential section.
(
1
) The triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer shall include in the confidential section of a waiver request a clear and complete explanation of why:
(
i
) Each requirement sought to be waived is not a requirement described in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(A) of this section;
(
ii
) The information sought to be waived would not be relevant to the Board's and Corporation's review of the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer's next full resolution plan; and
(
iii
) A waiver of each requirement would be appropriate.
(
2
) The triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer shall include in the public section of a waiver request a list of the requirements that it is requesting be waived.
(C) A triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer may not make more than one waiver request for any full resolution plan submission and any waiver
request must be made in writing no later than 18 months before the date by which the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer is required to submit the full resolution plan.
(D) The Board and Corporation may jointly approve or deny a waiver request, in whole or in part, in their discretion. Unless the Board and the Corporation have jointly approved a waiver request, the waiver request will be deemed denied on the date that is 12 months before the date by which the triennial full filer or triennial reduced filer is required to submit the full resolution plan to which the waiver request relates.
(E) An approved waiver request under this paragraph (d)(6)(ii) is effective for only the full resolution plan that immediately follows submission of the waiver request.
(e)
Access to information.
In order to allow evaluation of a resolution plan, each covered company must provide the Board and the Corporation such information and access to personnel of the covered company as the Board and the Corporation jointly determine during the period for reviewing the resolution plan is necessary to assess the credibility of the resolution plan and the ability of the covered company to implement the resolution plan. In order to facilitate review of any waiver request by a covered company under § 243.3(a)(2) or paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section, or any joint identification of a critical operation of a covered company under § 243.3(b), each covered company must provide such information and access to personnel of the covered company as the Board and the Corporation jointly determine is necessary to evaluate the waiver request or whether the operation is a critical operation. The Board and the Corporation will rely to the fullest extent possible on examinations conducted by or on behalf of the appropriate Federal banking agency for the relevant company.
(f)
Board of directors approval of resolution plan.
Before submission of a resolution plan under paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, the resolution plan of a covered company shall be approved by:
(1) The board of directors of the covered company and noted in the minutes; or
(2) In the case of a foreign-based covered company only, a delegee acting under the express authority of the board of directors of the covered company to approve the resolution plan.
(g)
Resolution plans provided to the Council.
The Board shall make the resolution plans and updates submitted by the covered company pursuant to this section available to the Council upon request.
(h)
Required and prohibited assumptions.
In preparing its resolution plan, a covered company shall:
(1) Take into account that the material financial distress or failure of the covered company may occur under the severely adverse economic conditions provided to the covered company by the Board pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(1)(B);
(2) Not rely on the provision of extraordinary support by the United States or any other government to the covered company or its subsidiaries to prevent the failure of the covered company, including any resolution actions taken outside the United States that would eliminate the need for any of a covered company's U.S. subsidiaries to enter into resolution proceedings; and
(3) With respect to foreign banking organizations, not assume that the covered company takes resolution actions outside of the United States that would eliminate the need for any U.S. subsidiaries to enter into resolution proceedings.
(i)
Point of contact.
Each covered company shall identify a senior management official at the covered company responsible for serving as a point of contact regarding the resolution plan of the covered company.
(j)
Incorporation of previously submitted resolution plan information by reference.
Any resolution plan submitted by a covered company may incorporate by reference information from a resolution plan previously submitted by the covered company to the Board and the Corporation, provided that:
(1) The resolution plan seeking to incorporate information by reference clearly indicates:
(i) The information the covered company is incorporating by reference; and
(ii) Which of the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan(s) originally contained the information the covered company is incorporating by reference and the specific location of the information in the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan; and
(2) The covered company certifies that the information the covered company is incorporating by reference remains accurate in all respects that are material to the covered company's resolution plan.
(k)
Initial resolution plans after effective date.
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraphs (a) through (c) or (d)(1) of this section, each company that is a covered company as of December 31, 2019 is required to submit its initial resolution plan after December 31, 2019, as provided in this paragraph (k). The submission date and resolution plan type for each subsequent resolution plan will be determined pursuant to paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
(i)
Biennial filers.
Each covered company that is a biennial filer on October 1, 2020 and remains a biennial filer as of July 1, 2021, is required to submit a targeted resolution plan pursuant to paragraph (a)(4) of this section on or before July 1, 2021.
(ii)
Triennial full filers.
Each covered company that is a triennial full filer on October 1, 2020 and remains a triennial full filer as of July 1, 2021 is required to submit a targeted resolution plan pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section on or before July 1, 2021.
(iii)
Triennial reduced filers.
Each covered company that is a triennial reduced filer on October 1, 2020 and remains a triennial reduced filer as of July 1, 2022 is required to submit a reduced resolution plan pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section on or before July 1, 2022.
(2) With respect to any company that is a covered company as of December 31, 2019, and changes filings groups specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section after October 1, 2020 and before the date by which it would be required to submit a resolution plan under paragraph (k)(1) of this section, the requirements for its initial resolution plan after it changes filing groups will be determined pursuant to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this paragraph (k), a covered company that has been jointly directed by the Board and the Corporation before December 31, 2019, to submit a resolution plan on or before July 1, 2020 describing changes it has made to its most recent resolution plan submission to address each shortcoming the agencies identified in that resolution plan shall submit a responsive resolution plan on or before July 1, 2020 in addition to any resolution plan that such covered company is otherwise required to submit under this section. The requirement to submit such a resolution plan on or before July 1, 2020 does not alter the timing or type of resolution plan any such covered company is required to submit under this section after July 1, 2020.
§ 243.5
Informational content of a full resolution plan.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Domestic covered companies.
A full resolution plan of a covered company that is organized or incorporated in the United States shall include the information specified in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section with respect to the subsidiaries and operations that are domiciled in the United States as well as the foreign subsidiaries, offices, and operations of the covered company.
(2)
Foreign-based covered companies.
A full resolution plan of a covered company that is organized or incorporated in a jurisdiction other than the United States (other than a bank holding company) or that is a foreign banking organization shall include:
(i) The information specified in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section with respect to the subsidiaries, branches and agencies, and identified critical operations and core business lines, as applicable, that are domiciled in the United States or conducted in whole or material part in the United States. With respect to the information specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the resolution plan of a foreign-based covered company shall also identify, describe in detail, and map to
legal entity the interconnections and interdependencies among the U.S. subsidiaries, branches, and agencies, and between those entities and:
(A) The identified critical operations and core business lines of the foreign-based covered company; and
(B) Any foreign-based affiliate; and
(ii) A detailed explanation of how resolution planning for the subsidiaries, branches and agencies, and identified critical operations and core business lines of the foreign-based covered company that are domiciled in the United States or conducted in whole or material part in the United States is integrated into the foreign-based covered company's overall resolution or other contingency planning process.
(b)
Executive summary.
Each full resolution plan of a covered company shall include an executive summary describing:
(1) The key elements of the covered company's strategic plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress at or failure of the covered company;
(2) A description of each material change experienced by the covered company since the filing of the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan (or affirmation that no such material change has occurred);
(3) Changes to the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan resulting from any:
(i) Change in law or regulation;
(ii) Guidance or feedback from the Board and the Corporation; or
(iii) Material change described pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(4) Any actions taken by the covered company since filing of the previous resolution plan to improve the effectiveness of the covered company's resolution plan or remediate or otherwise mitigate any material weaknesses or impediments to effective and timely execution of the resolution plan.
(c)
Strategic analysis.
Each full resolution plan shall include a strategic analysis describing the covered company's plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of the covered company. Such analysis shall:
(1) Include detailed descriptions of the:
(i) Key assumptions and supporting analysis underlying the covered company's resolution plan, including any assumptions made concerning the economic or financial conditions that would be present at the time the covered company sought to implement such plan;
(ii) Range of specific actions to be taken by the covered company to facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of the covered company, its material entities, and its identified critical operations and core business lines in the event of material financial distress or failure of the covered company;
(iii) Funding, liquidity and capital needs of, and resources available to, the covered company and its material entities, which shall be mapped to its identified critical operations and core business lines, in the ordinary course of business and in the event of material financial distress at or failure of the covered company;
(iv) Covered company's strategy for maintaining operations of, and funding for, the covered company and its material entities, which shall be mapped to its identified critical operations and core business lines;
(v) Covered company's strategy in the event of a failure or discontinuation of a material entity, core business line or identified critical operation, and the actions that will be taken by the covered company to prevent or mitigate any adverse effects of such failure or discontinuation on the financial stability of the United States; provided, however, if any such material entity is subject to an insolvency regime other than the Bankruptcy Code, a covered company may exclude that entity from its strategic analysis unless that entity either has $50 billion or more in total assets or conducts an identified critical operation; and
(vi) Covered company's strategy for ensuring that any insured depository institution subsidiary of the covered company will be adequately protected from risks arising from the activities of any nonbank subsidiaries of the covered company (other than those that are subsidiaries of an insured depository institution);
(2) Identify the time period(s) the covered company expects would be needed for the covered company to successfully execute each material aspect and step of the covered company's plan;
(3) Identify and describe any potential material weaknesses or impediments to effective and timely execution of the covered company's plan;
(4) Discuss the actions and steps the covered company has taken or proposes to take to remediate or otherwise mitigate the weaknesses or impediments identified by the covered company, including a timeline for the remedial or other mitigatory action; and
(5) Provide a detailed description of the processes the covered company employs for:
(i) Determining the current market values and marketability of the core business lines, identified critical operations, and material asset holdings of the covered company;
(ii) Assessing the feasibility of the covered company's plans (including timeframes) for executing any sales, divestitures, restructurings, recapitalizations, or other similar actions contemplated in the covered company's resolution plan; and
(iii) Assessing the impact of any sales, divestitures, restructurings, recapitalizations, or other similar actions on the value, funding, and operations of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines.
(d)
Corporate governance relating to resolution planning.
Each full resolution plan shall:
(1) Include a detailed description of:
(i) How resolution planning is integrated into the corporate governance structure and processes of the covered company;
(ii) The covered company's policies, procedures, and internal controls governing preparation and approval of the covered company's resolution plan;
(iii) The identity and position of the senior management official(s) of the covered company that is primarily responsible for overseeing the development, maintenance, implementation, and filing of the covered company's resolution plan and for the covered company's compliance with this part; and
(iv) The nature, extent, and frequency of reporting to senior executive officers and the board of directors of the covered company regarding the development, maintenance, and implementation of the covered company's resolution plan;
(2) Describe the nature, extent, and results of any contingency planning or similar exercise conducted by the covered company since the date of the covered company's most recently filed resolution plan to assess the viability of or improve the resolution plan of the covered company; and
(3) Identify and describe the relevant risk measures used by the covered company to report credit risk exposures both internally to its senior management and board of directors, as well as any relevant risk measures reported externally to investors or to the covered company's appropriate Federal regulator.
(e)
Organizational structure and related information.
Each full resolution plan shall:
(1) Provide a detailed description of the covered company's organizational structure, including:
(i) A hierarchical list of all material entities within the covered company's organization (including legal entities that directly or indirectly hold such material entities) that:
(A) Identifies the direct holder and the percentage of voting and nonvoting equity of each legal entity and foreign office listed; and
(B) The location, jurisdiction of incorporation, licensing, and key management associated with each material legal entity and foreign office identified;
(ii) A mapping of the covered company's identified critical operations and core business lines, including material asset holdings and liabilities related to such identified critical operations and core business lines, to material entities;
(2) Provide an unconsolidated balance sheet for the covered company and a consolidating schedule for all material entities that are subject to consolidation by the covered company;
(3) Include a description of the material components of the liabilities of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines that, at a minimum, separately identifies types and amounts of the short-term and long-term liabilities, the secured and unsecured liabilities, and subordinated liabilities;
(4) Identify and describe the processes used by the covered company to:
(i) Determine to whom the covered company has pledged collateral;
(ii) Identify the person or entity that holds such collateral; and
(iii) Identify the jurisdiction in which the collateral is located, and, if different, the jurisdiction in which the security interest in the collateral is enforceable against the covered company;
(5) Describe any material off-balance sheet exposures (including guarantees and contractual obligations) of the covered company and its material entities, including a mapping to its identified critical operations and core business lines;
(6) Describe the practices of the covered company, its material entities and its core business lines related to the booking of trading and derivatives activities;
(7) Identify material hedges of the covered company, its material entities, and its core business lines related to trading and derivative activities, including a mapping to legal entity;
(8) Describe the hedging strategies of the covered company;
(9) Describe the process undertaken by the covered company to establish exposure limits;
(10) Identify the major counterparties of the covered company and describe the interconnections, interdependencies and relationships with such major counterparties;
(11) Analyze whether the failure of each major counterparty would likely have an adverse impact on or result in the material financial distress or failure of the covered company; and
(12) Identify each trading, payment, clearing, or settlement system of which the covered company, directly or indirectly, is a member and on which the covered company conducts a material number or value amount of trades or transactions. Map membership in each such system to the covered company's material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines.
(f)
Management information systems.
(1) Each full resolution plan shall include:
(i) A detailed inventory and description of the key management information systems and applications, including systems and applications for risk management, accounting, and financial and regulatory reporting, used by the covered company and its material entities. The description of each system or application provided shall identify the legal owner or licensor, the use or function of the system or application, service level agreements related thereto, any software and system licenses, and any intellectual property associated therewith;
(ii) A mapping of the key management information systems and applications to the material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines of the covered company that use or rely on such systems and applications;
(iii) An identification of the scope, content, and frequency of the key internal reports that senior management of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines use to monitor the financial health, risks, and operation of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines;
(iv) A description of the process for the appropriate supervisory or regulatory agencies to access the management information systems and applications identified in paragraph (f) of this section; and
(v) A description and analysis of:
(A) The capabilities of the covered company's management information systems to collect, maintain, and report, in a timely manner to management of the covered company, and to the Board, the information and data underlying the resolution plan; and
(B) Any gaps or weaknesses in such capabilities, and a description of the actions the covered company intends to take to promptly address such gaps, or weaknesses, and the time frame for implementing such actions.
(2) The Board will use its examination authority to review the demonstrated capabilities of each covered company to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section. The Board will share with the Corporation information regarding the capabilities of the covered company to collect, maintain, and report in a timely manner information and data underlying the resolution plan.
(g)
Interconnections and interdependencies.
To the extent not provided elsewhere in this part, each full resolution plan shall identify and map to the material entities the interconnections and interdependencies among the covered company and its material entities, and among the identified critical operations and core business lines of the covered company that, if disrupted, would materially affect the funding or operations of the covered company, its material entities, or its identified critical operations or core business lines. Such interconnections and interdependencies may include:
(1) Common or shared personnel, facilities, or systems (including information technology platforms, management information systems, risk management systems, and accounting and recordkeeping systems);
(2) Capital, funding, or liquidity arrangements;
(3) Existing or contingent credit exposures;
(4) Cross-guarantee arrangements, cross-collateral arrangements, cross-default provisions, and cross-affiliate netting agreements;
(5) Risk transfers; and
(6) Service level agreements.
(h)
Supervisory and regulatory information.
Each full resolution plan shall:
(1) Identify any:
(i) Federal, state, or foreign agency or authority (other than a Federal banking agency) with supervisory authority or responsibility for ensuring the safety and soundness of the covered company, its material entities, identified critical operations and core business lines; and
(ii) Other Federal, state, or foreign agency or authority (other than a Federal banking agency) with significant supervisory or regulatory authority over the covered company, and its material entities and identified critical operations and core business lines.
(2) Identify any foreign agency or authority responsible for resolving a foreign-based material entity and identified critical operations or core business lines of the covered company; and
(3) Include contact information for each agency identified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.
§ 243.6
Informational content of a targeted resolution plan.
(a)
In general.
A targeted resolution plan is a subset of a full resolution plan and shall include core elements of a full resolution plan and information concerning key areas of focus as set forth in this section.
(b)
Targeted resolution plan content.
Each targeted resolution plan of a covered company shall include:
(1) The core elements;
(2) Such targeted information as the Board and Corporation may jointly identify pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section;
(3) A description of each material change experienced by the covered company since the filing of the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan (or affirmation that no such material change has occurred); and
(4) A description of changes to the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan resulting from any;
(i) Change in law or regulation;
(ii) Guidance or feedback from the Board and the Corporation; or
(iii) Material change described pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(c)
Targeted information requests.
No less than 12 months before the date by which a covered company is required to submit a targeted resolution plan, the Board and Corporation may jointly identify in writing resolution-related key areas of focus, questions, and issues that must also be addressed in the covered company's targeted resolution plan.
(d)
Deemed incorporation by reference.
If a covered company does not include in its targeted resolution plan a description of changes to any information set forth in section 165(d)(1)(A), (B), or (C) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12
U.S.C. 5365(d)(1)(A), (B), or (C)) since its previously submitted resolution plan, such information from its previously submitted resolution plan are incorporated by reference into its targeted resolution plan.
§ 243.7
Informational content of a reduced resolution plan.
(a)
Reduced resolution plan content.
Each reduced resolution plan of a covered company shall include:
(1) A description of each material change experienced by the covered company since the filing of the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan (or affirmation that no such material change has occurred); and
(2) A description of changes to the strategic analysis that was presented in the covered company's previously submitted resolution plan resulting from any:
(i) Change in law or regulation;
(ii) Guidance or feedback from the Board and the Corporation; or
(iii) Material change described pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Deemed incorporation by reference.
If a covered company does not include in its reduced resolution plan a description of changes to any information set forth in section 165(d)(1)(A), (B), or (C) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365(d)(1)(A), (B), or (C)) since its previously submitted resolution plan, such information from its previously submitted resolution plan are incorporated by reference into its reduced resolution plan.
§ 243.8
Review of resolution plans; resubmission of deficient resolution plans.
(a)
Review of resolution plans.
The Board and Corporation will seek to coordinate their activities concerning the review of resolution plans, including planning for, reviewing, and assessing the resolution plans, as well as such activities that occur during the periods between resolution plan submissions.
(b)
Joint determination regarding deficient resolution plans.
If the Board and Corporation jointly determine that the resolution plan of a covered company submitted under § 243.4 is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution of the covered company under the Bankruptcy Code, the Board and Corporation shall jointly notify the covered company in writing of such determination. Any joint notice provided under this paragraph (b) shall be provided pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section and shall identify the deficiencies identified by the Board and Corporation in the resolution plan. A deficiency is an aspect of a covered company's resolution plan that the Board and Corporation jointly determine presents a weakness that individually or in conjunction with other aspects could undermine the feasibility of the covered company's resolution plan.
(c)
Resubmission of a resolution plan.
Within 90 days of receiving a notice of deficiencies issued pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, or such shorter or longer period as the Board and Corporation may jointly determine, a covered company shall submit a revised resolution plan to the Board and Corporation that addresses the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and Corporation, and that discusses in detail:
(1) The revisions made by the covered company to address the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation;
(2) Any changes to the covered company's business operations and corporate structure that the covered company proposes to undertake to facilitate implementation of the revised resolution plan (including a timeline for the execution of such planned changes); and
(3) Why the covered company believes that the revised resolution plan is credible and would result in an orderly resolution of the covered company under the Bankruptcy Code.
(d)
Extensions of time.
Upon their own initiative or a written request by a covered company, the Board and Corporation may jointly extend any time period under this section. Each extension request shall be supported by a written statement of the covered company describing the basis and justification for the request.
(e)
Joint determination regarding shortcomings in resolution plans.
The Board
and Corporation may also jointly identify one or more shortcomings in a covered company's resolution plan. A shortcoming is a weakness or gap that raises questions about the feasibility of a covered company's resolution plan, but does not rise to the level of a deficiency for both the Board and Corporation. If a shortcoming is not satisfactorily explained or addressed before or in the submission of the covered company's next resolution plan, it may be found to be a deficiency in the covered company's next resolution plan. The Board and the Corporation may identify an aspect of a covered company's resolution plan as a deficiency even if such aspect was not identified as a shortcoming in an earlier resolution plan submission.
(f)
Feedback.
Following their review of a resolution plan, the Board and the Corporation will jointly send a notification to each covered company that identifies any deficiencies or shortcomings in the covered company's resolution plan (or confirms that no deficiencies or shortcomings were identified) and provides any feedback on the resolution plan. The Board and the Corporation will jointly send the notification no later than 12 months after the later of the date on which the covered company submitted the resolution plan and the date by which the covered company was required to submit the resolution plan, unless the Board and the Corporation jointly determine in their discretion that extenuating circumstances exist that require delay.
§ 243.9
Failure to cure deficiencies on resubmission of a resolution plan.
(a)
In general.
The Board and Corporation may jointly determine that a covered company or any subsidiary of a covered company shall be subject to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements, or restrictions on the growth, activities, or operations of the covered company or the subsidiary if:
(1) The covered company fails to submit a revised resolution plan under § 243.8(c) within the required time period; or
(2) The Board and the Corporation jointly determine that a revised resolution plan submitted under § 243.8(c) does not adequately remedy the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation under § 243.8(b).
(b)
Duration of requirements or restrictions.
Any requirements or restrictions imposed on a covered company or a subsidiary thereof pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall cease to apply to the covered company or subsidiary, respectively, on the date that the Board and the Corporation jointly determine the covered company has submitted a revised resolution plan that adequately remedies the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation under § 243.8(b).
(c)
Divestiture.
The Board and Corporation, in consultation with the Council, may jointly, by order, direct the covered company to divest such assets or operations as are jointly identified by the Board and Corporation if:
(1) The Board and Corporation have jointly determined that the covered company or a subsidiary thereof shall be subject to requirements or restrictions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) The covered company has failed, within the 2-year period beginning on the date on which the determination to impose such requirements or restrictions under paragraph (a) of this section was made, to submit a revised resolution plan that adequately remedies the deficiencies jointly identified by the Board and the Corporation under § 243.8(b); and
(3) The Board and Corporation jointly determine that the divestiture of such assets or operations is necessary to facilitate an orderly resolution of the covered company under the Bankruptcy Code in the event the company was to fail.
§ 243.10
Consultation.
Before issuing any notice of deficiencies under § 243.8(b), determining to impose requirements or restrictions under § 243.9(a), or issuing a divestiture order pursuant to § 243.9(c) with respect to a covered company that is likely to have a significant impact on a functionally regulated subsidiary or a depository institution subsidiary of the covered company, the Board—
(a) Shall consult with each Council member that primarily supervises any such subsidiary; and
(b) May consult with any other Federal, state, or foreign supervisor as the Board considers appropriate.
§ 243.11
No limiting effect or private right of action; confidentiality of resolution plans.
(a)
No limiting effect on bankruptcy or other resolution proceedings.
A resolution plan submitted pursuant to this part shall not have any binding effect on:
(1) A court or trustee in a proceeding commenced under the Bankruptcy Code;
(2) A receiver appointed under title II of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5381
et seq.
);
(3) A bridge financial company chartered pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5390(h); or
(4) Any other authority that is authorized or required to resolve a covered company (including any subsidiary or affiliate thereof) under any other provision of Federal, state, or foreign law.
(b)
No private right of action.
Nothing in this part creates or is intended to create a private right of action based on a resolution plan prepared or submitted under this part or based on any action taken by the Board or the Corporation with respect to any resolution plan submitted under this part.
(c)
Form of resolution plans
—(1)
Generally.
Each full, targeted, and reduced resolution plan of a covered company shall be divided into a public section and a confidential section. Each covered company shall segregate and separately identify the public section from the confidential section.
(2)
Public section of full and targeted resolution plans.
The public section of a full or targeted resolution plan shall consist of an executive summary of the resolution plan that describes the business of the covered company and includes, to the extent material to an understanding of the covered company:
(i) The names of material entities;
(ii) A description of core business lines;
(iii) Consolidated or segment financial information regarding assets, liabilities, capital and major funding sources;
(iv) A description of derivative activities and hedging activities;
(v) A list of memberships in material payment, clearing and settlement systems;
(vi) A description of foreign operations;
(vii) The identities of material supervisory authorities;
(viii) The identities of the principal officers;
(ix) A description of the corporate governance structure and processes related to resolution planning;
(x) A description of material management information systems; and
(xi) A description, at a high level, of the covered company's resolution strategy, covering such items as the range of potential purchasers of the covered company, its material entities, and its core business lines.
(3)
Public section of reduced resolution plans.
The public section of a reduced resolution plan shall consist of an executive summary of the resolution plan that describes the business of the covered company and includes, to the extent material to an understanding of the covered company:
(i) The names of material entities;
(ii) A description of core business lines;
(iii) The identities of the principal officers; and
(iv) A description, at a high level, of the covered company's resolution strategy, referencing the applicable resolution regimes for its material entities.
(d)
Confidential treatment of resolution plans.
(1) The confidentiality of resolution plans and related materials shall be determined in accordance with applicable exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)), 12 CFR part 261 (the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information), and 12 CFR part 309 (the Corporation's Disclosure of Information rules).
(2) Any covered company submitting a resolution plan or related materials pursuant to this part that desires confidential treatment of the information under 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), 12 CFR part 261 (the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information), and 12 CFR
part 309 (the Corporation's Disclosure of Information rules) may file a request for confidential treatment in accordance with those rules.
(3) To the extent permitted by law, information comprising the Confidential Section of a resolution plan will be treated as confidential.
(4) To the extent permitted by law, the submission of any nonpublic data or information under this part shall not constitute a waiver of, or otherwise affect, any privilege arising under Federal or state law (including the rules of any Federal or state court) to which the data or information is otherwise subject. Privileges that apply to resolution plans and related materials are protected pursuant to section 18(x) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(x)).
§ 243.12
Enforcement.
The Board and Corporation may jointly enforce an order jointly issued by the Board and Corporation under § 243.9(a) or (c). The Board, in consultation with the Corporation, may take any action to address any violation of this part by a covered company under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818).
§ 243.13
Additional covered companies.
An additional covered company is any bank holding company or any foreign bank or company that is a bank holding company or is treated as a bank holding company under section 8(a) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(a)) that is:
(a) Identified as a category II banking organization pursuant to § 252.5 of this title;
(b) Identified as a category III banking organization pursuant to § 252.5 of this title; or
(c) Made subject to this part by order of the Board.
[84 FR 59227, Nov. 1, 2019]
Pt. 244

# PART 244—CREDIT RISK RETENTION (REGULATION RR)

# Subpart A—Authority, Purpose, Scope and Definitions
Sec.
244.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
244.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Credit Risk Retention
244.3
Base risk retention requirement.
244.4
Standard risk retention.
244.5
Revolving pool securitizations.
244.6
Eligible ABCP conduits.
244.7
Commercial mortgage-backed securities.
244.8
Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ABS.
244.9
Open market CLOs.
244.10
Qualified tender option bonds.

# Subpart C—Transfer of Risk Retention
244.11
Allocation of risk retention to an originator.
244.12
Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.

# Subpart D—Exceptions and Exemptions
244.13
Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.
244.14
Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans, qualifying commercial real estate loans, and qualifying automobile loans.
244.15
Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
244.16
Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
244.17
Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
244.18
Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
244.19
General exemptions.
244.20
Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
244.21
Additional exemptions.
244.22
Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, and community-focused residential mortgage exemption.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.,
1461
et seq.,
1818, 1841
et seq.,
3103
et seq.,
and 15 U.S.C. 78o-11.

# Source:
79 FR 77740, 77764, Dec. 24, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Authority, Purpose, Scope and Definitions
§ 244.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority
—(1)
In general.
This part (Regulation RR) is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under section 15G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) (15 U.S.C. 78o-11), as well as under the Federal Reserve Act,
as amended (12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.
); section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act), as amended (12 U.S.C. 1818); the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act) (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
); the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 (HOLA) (12 U.S.C. 1461
et seq.
); section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) (12 U.S.C. 5365); and the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
).
(2) Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the authority of the Board to take action under provisions of law other than 15 U.S.C. 78o-11, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, or violations of law or regulation, under section 8 of the FDI Act.
(b)
Purpose.
This part requires any securitizer to retain an economic interest in a portion of the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of an asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party in a transaction within the scope of section 15G of the Exchange Act. This part specifies the permissible types, forms, and amounts of credit risk retention, and establishes certain exemptions for securitizations collateralized by assets that meet specified underwriting standards or that otherwise qualify for an exemption.
(c)
Scope.
(1) This part applies to any securitizer that is:
(i) A state member bank (as defined in 12 CFR 208.2(g)); or
(ii) Any subsidiary of a state member bank.
(2) Section 15G of the Exchange Act and the rules issued thereunder apply to any securitizer that is:
(i) A bank holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1842);
(ii) A foreign banking organization (as defined in 12 CFR 211.21(o));
(iii) An Edge or agreement corporation (as defined in 12 CFR 211.1(c)(2) and (3));
(iv) A nonbank financial company that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) (12 U.S.C. 5323) shall be supervised by the Board and for which such determination is still in effect; or
(v) A savings and loan holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1467a); and
(vi) Any subsidiary of the foregoing.
(3) Compliance with this part is required:
(i) With respect to any securitization transaction collateralized by residential mortgages on December 24, 2015; and
(ii) With respect to any other securitization transaction on December 24, 2016.
[79 FR 77764, Dec. 24, 2014]
§ 244.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
ABS interest
means:
(1) Any type of interest or obligation issued by an issuing entity, whether or not in certificated form, including a security, obligation, beneficial interest or residual interest (other than an uncertificated regular interest in a REMIC that is held by another REMIC, where both REMICs are part of the same structure and a single REMIC in that structure issues ABS interests to investors, or a non-economic residual interest issued by a REMIC), payments on which are primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral owned or held by the issuing entity; and
(2) Does not include common or preferred stock, limited liability interests, partnership interests, trust certificates, or similar interests that:
(i) Are issued primarily to evidence ownership of the issuing entity; and
(ii) The payments, if any, on which are not primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral held by the issuing entity; and
(3) Does not include the right to receive payments for services provided by the holder of such right, including servicing, trustee services and custodial services.
Affiliate
of, or a person
affiliated
with, a specified person means a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified.
Appropriate Federal banking agency
has the same meaning as in section 3 of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
Asset
means a self-liquidating financial asset (including but not limited to a loan, lease, mortgage, or receivable).
Asset-backed security
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(79) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)).
Collateral
means, with respect to any issuance of ABS interests, the assets that provide the cash flow and the servicing assets that support such cash flow for the ABS interests irrespective of the legal structure of issuance, including security interests in assets or other property of the issuing entity, fractional undivided property interests in the assets or other property of the issuing entity, or any other property interest in or rights to cash flow from such assets and related servicing assets. Assets or other property
collateralize
an issuance of ABS interests if the assets or property serve as collateral for such issuance.
Commercial real estate loan
has the same meaning as in § 244.14.
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Control
including the terms “controlling,” “controlled by” and “under common control with”:
(1) Means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.
(2) Without limiting the foregoing, a person shall be considered to control another person if the first person:
(i) Owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other person; or
(ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees or persons performing similar functions of the other person.
Credit risk
means:
(1) The risk of loss that could result from the failure of the borrower in the case of a securitized asset, or the issuing entity in the case of an ABS interest in the issuing entity, to make required payments of principal or interest on the asset or ABS interest on a timely basis;
(2) The risk of loss that could result from bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding with respect to the borrower or issuing entity, as appropriate; or
(3) The effect that significant changes in the underlying credit quality of the asset or ABS interest may have on the market value of the asset or ABS interest.
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(g).
Depositor
means:
(1) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized assets to the issuing entity;
(2) The sponsor, in the case of a securitization transaction where there is not an intermediate transfer of the assets from the sponsor to the issuing entity; or
(3) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized assets to the issuing entity in the case of a securitization transaction where the person transferring or selling the securitized assets directly to the issuing entity is itself a trust.
Eligible horizontal residual interest
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest in the issuing entity:
(1) That is an interest in a single class or multiple classes in the issuing entity, provided that each interest meets, individually or in the aggregate, all of the requirements of this definition;
(2) With respect to which, on any payment date or allocation date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds to satisfy its obligation to pay all contractual interest or principal due, any resulting shortfall will reduce amounts payable to the eligible horizontal residual interest prior to any reduction in the amounts payable to any other ABS interest, whether through loss allocation, operation of the priority of payments, or any other governing contractual provision (until the amount of such ABS interest is reduced to zero); and
(3) That, with the exception of any non-economic REMIC residual interest, has the most subordinated claim to payments of both principal and interest by the issuing entity.
Eligible horizontal cash reserve account
means an account meeting the requirements of § 244.4(b).
Eligible vertical interest
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, a single vertical security or an interest in each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as part of the securitization transaction that constitutes the same proportion of each such class.
Federal banking agencies
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Issuing entity
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the trust or other entity:
(1) That owns or holds the pool of assets to be securitized; and
(2) In whose name the asset-backed securities are issued.
Majority-owned affiliate
of a person means an entity (other than the issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under common majority control with, such person. For purposes of this definition, majority control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Originator
means a person who:
(1) Through an extension of credit or otherwise, creates an asset that collateralizes an asset-backed security; and
(2) Sells the asset directly or indirectly to a securitizer or issuing entity.
REMIC
has the same meaning as in 26 U.S.C. 860D.
Residential mortgage
means:
(1) A transaction that is a covered transaction as defined in § 1026.43(b) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1));
(2) Any transaction that is exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)); and
(3) Any other loan secured by a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property, including an individual condominium or cooperative unit and, if used as a residence, a mobile home or trailer.
Retaining sponsor
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the sponsor that has retained or caused to be retained an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets pursuant to subpart B of this part.
Securitization transaction
means a transaction involving the offer and sale of asset-backed securities by an issuing entity.
Securitized asset
means an asset that:
(1) Is transferred, sold, or conveyed to an issuing entity; and
(2) Collateralizes the ABS interests issued by the issuing entity.
Securitizer
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, either:
(1) The depositor of the asset-backed securities (if the depositor is not the sponsor); or
(2) The sponsor of the asset-backed securities.
Servicer
means any person responsible for the management or collection of the securitized assets or making allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests, but does not include a trustee for the issuing entity or the asset-backed securities that makes allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests if the trustee receives such allocations or distributions from a servicer and the trustee does not otherwise perform the functions of a servicer.
Servicing assets
means rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to ABS interest holders and rights or other assets that are related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the issuing entity's securitized assets. Servicing assets include amounts received by the issuing entity as proceeds of securitized assets, including proceeds of rights or other assets, whether as remittances by obligors or as other recoveries.
Single vertical security
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest entitling the sponsor to a specified percentage of the amounts paid on each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity (other than such single vertical security).
Sponsor
means a person who organizes and initiates a securitization transaction by selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to the issuing entity.
State
has the same meaning as in Section 3(a)(16) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(16)).
United States or U.S.
means the United States of America, including its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Wholly-owned affiliate
means a person (other than an issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, wholly controls, is wholly controlled by, or is wholly under common control with, another person. For purposes of this definition, “wholly controls” means ownership of 100 percent of the equity of an entity.

# Subpart B—Credit Risk Retention
§ 244.3
Base risk retention requirement.
(a)
Base risk retention requirement.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the sponsor of a securitization transaction (or majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor) shall retain an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in accordance with any one of §§ 244.4 through 244.10. Credit risk in securitized assets required to be retained and held by any person for purposes of compliance with this part, whether a sponsor, an originator, an originator-seller, or a third-party purchaser, except as otherwise provided in this part, may be acquired and held by any of such person's majority-owned affiliates (other than an issuing entity).
(b)
Multiple sponsors.
If there is more than one sponsor of a securitization transaction, it shall be the responsibility of each sponsor to ensure that at least one of the sponsors of the securitization transaction (or at least one of their majority-owned or wholly-owned affiliates, as applicable) retains an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in accordance with any one of § 244.4, § 244.5, § 244.8, § 244.9, or § 244.10.
§ 244.4
Standard risk retention.
(a)
General requirement.
Except as provided in §§ 244.5 through 244.10, the sponsor of a securitization transaction must retain an eligible vertical interest or eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(1) If the sponsor retains only an eligible vertical interest as its required risk retention, the sponsor must retain an eligible vertical interest in a percentage of not less than 5 percent.
(2) If the sponsor retains only an eligible horizontal residual interest as its required risk retention, the amount of the interest must equal at least 5 percent of the fair value of all ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as a part of the securitization transaction, determined using a fair value measurement framework under GAAP.
(3) If the sponsor retains both an eligible vertical interest and an eligible horizontal residual interest as its required risk retention, the percentage of the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest and the percentage of the eligible vertical interest must equal at least five.
(4) The percentage of the eligible vertical interest, eligible horizontal residual interest, or combination thereof retained by the sponsor must be determined as of the closing date of the securitization transaction.
(b)
Option to hold base amount in eligible horizontal cash reserve account.
In lieu of retaining all or any part of an eligible horizontal residual interest under paragraph (a) of this section, the sponsor may, at closing of the securitization transaction, cause to be established and funded, in cash, an eligible horizontal cash reserve account in the amount equal to the fair value of such eligible horizontal residual interest or part thereof, provided that the account meets all of the following conditions:
(1) The account is held by the trustee (or person performing similar functions) in the name and for the benefit of the issuing entity;
(2) Amounts in the account are invested only in cash and cash equivalents; and
(3) Until all ABS interests in the issuing entity are paid in full, or the issuing entity is dissolved:
(i) Amounts in the account shall be released only to:
(A) Satisfy payments on ABS interests in the issuing entity on any payment date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to satisfy an amount due on any ABS interest; or
(B) Pay critical expenses of the trust unrelated to credit risk on any payment date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to pay such expenses and:
(
1
) Such expenses, in the absence of available funds in the eligible horizontal cash reserve account, would be paid prior to any payments to holders of ABS interests; and
(
2
) Such payments are made to parties that are not affiliated with the sponsor; and
(ii) Interest (or other earnings) on investments made in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be released once received by the account.
(c)
Disclosures.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors, under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction the following disclosures in written form and within the time frames set forth in this paragraph (c):
(1)
Horizontal interest.
With respect to any eligible horizontal residual interest held under paragraph (a) of this section, a sponsor must disclose:
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security issued in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction. If the specific prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization are not available, the sponsor must disclose a range of fair values (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the close of the securitization transaction based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization. A sponsor disclosing a range of fair values based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization must also disclose the method by which it determined any range of prices, tranche sizes, or rates of interest.
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest to be retained by the sponsor;
(C) A description of the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair values or range of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including any portion of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by the sponsor;
(D) All key inputs and assumptions or a comprehensive description of such key inputs and assumptions that were used in measuring the estimated total fair value or range of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including the eligible horizontal residual interest to be retained by the sponsor.
(E) To the extent applicable to the valuation methodology used, the disclosure required in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section shall include, but should not be limited to, quantitative information about each of the following:
(
1
) Discount rates;
(
2
) Loss given default (recovery);
(
3
) Prepayment rates;
(
4
) Default rates;
(
5
) Lag time between default and recovery; and
(
6
) The basis of forward interest rates used.
(F) The disclosure required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C) and (D) of this section shall include, at a minimum, descriptions of all inputs and assumptions that either could have a material impact on the fair value calculation or would be material to a prospective investor's ability to evaluate the sponsor's fair value calculations. To the extent the disclosure required in this paragraph (c)(1) includes a description of a curve or curves, the description shall include a description of the methodology that was used to derive each curve and a description of any aspects or features of each curve that could materially impact the fair value calculation or the ability of a prospective investor to evaluate the sponsor's fair value calculation. To the extent a sponsor uses information about the securitized assets in its calculation of fair value, such information shall not be as of a date more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided that for a subsequent issuance of ABS interests by the same issuing entity with the same sponsor for which the securitization transaction distributes amounts to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis, such information shall not be as of a date more than 135 days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided further, that the balance or value (in accordance with the transaction documents) of the securitized assets may be increased or decreased to reflect anticipated additions or removals of assets the sponsor makes or expects to make between the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security and the closing date of the securitization.
(G) A summary description of the reference data set or other historical information used to develop the key inputs and assumptions referenced in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section, including loss given default and default rates;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction:
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest the sponsor retained at the closing of the securitization transaction, based on actual sale prices and finalized tranche sizes;
(B) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to retain under this section; and
(C) To the extent the valuation methodology or any of the key inputs and assumptions that were used in calculating the fair value or range of fair values disclosed prior to sale and required under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section materially differs from the methodology or key inputs and assumptions used to calculate the fair value at the time of closing, descriptions of those material differences.
(iii) If the sponsor retains risk through the funding of an eligible horizontal cash reserve account:
(A) The amount to be placed (or that is placed) by the sponsor in the eligible horizontal cash reserve account at closing, and the fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to fund through the eligible horizontal cash reserve account in order for such account, together with other retained interests, to satisfy the sponsor's risk retention requirement;
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal cash reserve account; and
(C) The disclosures required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2)
Vertical interest.
With respect to any eligible vertical interest retained under paragraph (a) of this section, the sponsor must disclose:
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security
issued in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The form of the eligible vertical interest;
(B) The percentage that the sponsor is required to retain as a vertical interest under this section; and
(C) A description of the material terms of the vertical interest and the amount that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the amount of the vertical interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(d)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the certifications and disclosures required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section in its records and must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
§ 244.5
Revolving pool securitizations.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Revolving pool securitization
means an issuing entity that is established to issue on multiple issuance dates more than one series, class, subclass, or tranche of asset-backed securities that are collateralized by a common pool of securitized assets that will change in composition over time, and that does not monetize excess interest and fees from its securitized assets.
Seller's interest
means an ABS interest or ABS interests:
(1) Collateralized by the securitized assets and servicing assets owned or held by the issuing entity, other than the following that are not considered a component of seller's interest:
(i) Servicing assets that have been allocated as collateral only for a specific series in connection with administering the revolving pool securitization, such as a principal accumulation or interest reserve account; and
(ii) Assets that are not eligible under the terms of the securitization transaction to be included when determining whether the revolving pool securitization holds aggregate securitized assets in specified proportions to aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests issued; and
(2) That is
pari passu
with each series of investor ABS interests issued, or partially or fully subordinated to one or more series in identical or varying amounts, with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to the securitized assets prior to early amortization of the revolving securitization (as specified in the securitization transaction documents); and
(3) That adjusts for fluctuations in the outstanding principal balance of the securitized assets in the pool.
(b)
General requirement.
A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of § 244.3 with respect to a securitization transaction for which the issuing entity is a revolving pool securitization if the sponsor maintains a seller's interest of not less than 5 percent of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests in the issuing entity.
(c)
Measuring the seller's interest.
In measuring the seller's interest for purposes of meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets for the numerator of the 5 percent ratio shall not include assets of the types excluded from the definition of seller's interest in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator of the 5 percent ratio may be reduced by the amount of funds held in a segregated principal accumulation account for the repayment of outstanding investor ABS interests, if:
(i) The terms of the securitization transaction documents prevent funds in the principal accumulation account from being applied for any purpose other than the repayment of the unpaid principal of outstanding investor ABS interests; and
(ii) Funds in that account are invested only in the types of assets in
which funds held in an eligible horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 244.4 are permitted to be invested;
(3) If the terms of the securitization transaction documents set minimum required seller's interest as a proportion of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests for one or more series issued, rather than as a proportion of the aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests in all outstanding series combined, the percentage of the seller's interest for each such series must, when combined with the percentage of any minimum seller's interest set by reference to the aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests, equal at least 5 percent;
(4) The 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied at the closing of each issuance of ABS interests to investors by the issuing entity, and
(i) At least monthly at a seller's interest measurement date specified under the securitization transaction documents, until no ABS interest in the issuing entity is held by any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor; or
(ii) If the revolving pool securitization fails to meet the 5 percent test as of any date described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, and the securitization transaction documents specify a cure period, the 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied within the earlier of the cure period, or one month after the date described in paragraph (c)(4)(i).
(d)
Measuring outstanding investor ABS interests.
In measuring the amount of outstanding investor ABS interests for purposes of this section, ABS interests held for the life of such ABS interests by the sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates may be excluded.
(e)
Holding and retention of the seller's interest; legacy trusts.
(1) Notwithstanding § 244.12(a), the seller's interest, and any offsetting horizontal retention interest retained pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, must be retained by the sponsor or by one or more wholly-owned affiliates of the sponsor, including one or more depositors of the revolving pool securitization.
(2) If one revolving pool securitization issues collateral certificates representing a beneficial interest in all or a portion of the securitized assets held by that securitization to another revolving pool securitization, which in turn issues ABS interests for which the collateral certificates are all or a portion of the securitized assets, a sponsor may satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section by retaining the seller's interest for the assets represented by the collateral certificates through either of the revolving pool securitizations, so long as both revolving pool securitizations are retained at the direction of the same sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates.
(3) If the sponsor retains the seller's interest associated with the collateral certificates at the level of the revolving pool securitization that issues those collateral certificates, the proportion of the seller's interest required by paragraph (b) of this section retained at that level must equal the proportion that the principal balance of the securitized assets represented by the collateral certificates bears to the principal balance of the securitized assets in the revolving pool securitization that issues the ABS interests, as of each measurement date required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(f)
Offset for pool-level excess funding account.
The 5 percent seller's interest required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis by the balance, as of such date, of an excess funding account in the form of a segregated account that:
(1) Is funded in the event of a failure to meet the minimum seller's interest requirements or other requirement to maintain a minimum balance of securitized assets under the securitization transaction documents by distributions otherwise payable to the holder of the seller's interest;
(2) Is invested only in the types of assets in which funds held in a horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 244.4 are permitted to be invested; and
(3) In the event of an early amortization, makes payments of amounts held in the account to holders of investor ABS interests in the same manner as payments to holders of investor ABS
interests of amounts received on securitized assets.
(g)
Combined seller's interests and horizontal interest retention.
The 5 percent seller's interest required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may be reduced to a percentage lower than 5 percent to the extent that, for all series of investor ABS interests issued after the applicable effective date of this § 244.5, the sponsor, or notwithstanding § 244.12(a) a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, retains, at a minimum, a corresponding percentage of the fair value of ABS interests issued in each series, in the form of one or more of the horizontal residual interests meeting the requirements of paragraphs (h) or (i).
(h)
Residual ABS interests in excess interest and fees.
The sponsor may take the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for a residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, whether certificated or uncertificated, in a single or multiple classes, subclasses, or tranches, that meets, individually or in the aggregate, the requirements of this paragraph (h);
(1) Each series of the revolving pool securitization distinguishes between the series' share of the interest and fee cash flows and the series' share of the principal repayment cash flows from the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool securitization, which may according to the terms of the securitization transaction documents, include not only the series' ratable share of such cash flows but also excess cash flows available from other series;
(2) The residual ABS interest's claim to any part of the series' share of the interest and fee cash flows for any interest payment period is subordinated to all accrued and payable interest due on the payment date to more senior ABS interests in the series for that period, and further reduced by the series' share of losses, including defaults on principal of the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool securitization (whether incurred in that period or carried over from prior periods) to the extent that such payments would have been included in amounts payable to more senior interests in the series;
(3) The revolving pool securitization continues to revolve, with one or more series, classes, subclasses, or tranches of asset-backed securities that are collateralized by a common pool of assets that change in composition over time; and
(4) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the sponsor determines the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, and the fair value of the series of outstanding investor ABS interests to which it is subordinated and supports using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP, as of:
(i) The closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS interests; and
(ii) The seller's interest measurement dates described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, except that for these periodic determinations the sponsor must update the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees for the numerator of the percentage ratio, but may at the sponsor's option continue to use the fair values determined in (h)(4)(i) for the outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator.
(i)
Offsetting eligible horizontal residual interest.
The sponsor may take the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for ABS interests that would meet the definition of eligible horizontal residual interests in § 244.2 but for the sponsor's simultaneous holding of subordinated seller's interests, residual ABS interests in excess interests and fees, or a combination of the two, if:
(1) The sponsor complies with all requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section for its holdings of subordinated seller's interest, and paragraph (h) for its holdings of residual ABS interests in excess interests and fees, as applicable;
(2) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the sponsor determines the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest as a percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests in the series supported by the eligible horizontal residual interest,
determined using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP:
(i) As of the closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS interests; and
(ii) Without including in the numerator of the percentage ratio any fair value based on:
(A) The subordinated seller's interest or residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees;
(B) the interest payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest, if the sponsor is including the value of residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section in taking the offset in paragraph (g) of this section; and,
(C) the principal payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest, if the sponsor is including the value of the seller's interest pursuant to paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section and distributions on that seller's interest are available to reduce charge-offs that would otherwise be allocated to reduce principal payable to the offset eligible horizontal residual interest.
(j)
Specified dates.
A sponsor using data about the revolving pool securitization's collateral, or ABS interests previously issued, to determine the closing-date percentage of a seller's interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this § 244.5 may use such data prepared as of specified dates if:
(1) The sponsor describes the specified dates in the disclosures required by paragraph (k) of this section; and
(2) The dates are no more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors of disclosures required for the interest by paragraph (k) of this section, or for revolving pool securitizations that make distributions to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis, no more than 135 days prior to the date of first use with investors of such disclosures.
(k)
Disclosure and record maintenance
—(1)
Disclosure.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors, under the caption “Credit Risk Retention” the following disclosure in written form and within the time frames set forth in this paragraph (k):
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security, a description of the material terms of the seller's interest, and the percentage of the seller's interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction, measured in accordance with the requirements of this § 244.5, as a percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests issued, or as a percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests for one or more series issued, as required by the terms of the securitization transaction;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the amount of seller's interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section; and
(iii) A description of the material terms of any horizontal residual interests offsetting the seller's interest in accordance with paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section; and
(iv) Disclosure of the fair value of those horizontal residual interests retained by the sponsor for the series being offered to investors and described in the disclosures, as a percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests issued, described in the same manner and within the same timeframes required for disclosure of the fair values of eligible horizontal residual interests specified in § 244.4(c).
(2)
Adjusted data.
Disclosures required by this paragraph (k) to be made a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security of the amount of seller's interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or eligible horizontal residual interest may include adjustments to the amount of securitized assets for additions or removals the sponsor expects to make before the closing date and adjustments to the amount of outstanding investor ABS interests for expected increases and decreases of those interests under the control of the sponsor.
(3)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in paragraph (k)(1) of this section in its records and must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
(l)
Early amortization of all outstanding series.
A sponsor that organizes a revolving pool securitization that relies on this § 244.5 to satisfy the risk retention requirements of § 244.3, does not violate the requirements of this part if its seller's interest falls below the level required by § 244. 5 after the revolving pool securitization commences early amortization, pursuant to the terms of the securitization transaction documents, of all series of outstanding investor ABS interests, if:
(1) The sponsor was in full compliance with the requirements of this section on all measurement dates specified in paragraph (c) of this section prior to the commencement of early amortization;
(2) The terms of the seller's interest continue to make it
pari passu
with or subordinate in identical or varying amounts to each series of outstanding investor ABS interests issued with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to the securitized assets;
(3) The terms of any horizontal interest relied upon by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (g) to offset the minimum seller's interest amount continue to require the interests to absorb losses in accordance with the terms of paragraph (h) or (i) of this section, as applicable; and
(4) The revolving pool securitization issues no additional ABS interests after early amortization is initiated to any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, either at the time of issuance or during the amortization period.
§ 244.6
Eligible ABCP conduits.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following additional definitions apply:
100 percent liquidity coverage
means an amount equal to the outstanding balance of all ABCP issued by the conduit plus any accrued and unpaid interest without regard to the performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit and without regard to any credit enhancement.
ABCP
means asset-backed commercial paper that has a maturity at the time of issuance not exceeding 397 days, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of which is likewise limited.
ABCP conduit
means an issuing entity with respect to ABCP.
Eligible ABCP conduit
means an ABCP conduit,
provided that:
(1) The ABCP conduit is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the sponsor of the ABCP conduit and from any intermediate SPV;
(2) The ABS interests acquired by the ABCP conduit are:
(i) ABS interests collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets;
(ii) Special units of beneficial interest (or similar ABS interests) in a trust or special purpose vehicle that retains legal title to leased property underlying leases originated by an originator-seller that were transferred to an intermediate SPV in connection with a securitization collateralized solely by such leases and by servicing assets;
(iii) ABS interests in a revolving pool securitization collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets; or
(iv) ABS interests described in paragraph (2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition that are collateralized, in whole or in part, by assets acquired by an originator-seller in a business combination that qualifies for business combination accounting under GAAP, and, if collateralized in part, the remainder of such assets are assets described in paragraph (2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition; and
(v) Acquired by the ABCP conduit in an initial issuance by or on behalf of an intermediate SPV:
(A) Directly from the intermediate SPV,
(B) From an underwriter of the ABS interests issued by the intermediate SPV, or
(C) From another person who acquired the ABS interests directly from the intermediate SPV;
(3) The ABCP conduit is collateralized solely by ABS interests acquired from intermediate SPVs as described in paragraph (2) of this definition and servicing assets; and
(4) A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding commitment to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage (in the form of a lending facility, an asset purchase agreement, a repurchase agreement, or other similar arrangement) to all the ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit by lending to, purchasing ABCP issued by, or purchasing assets from, the ABCP conduit in the event that funds are required to repay maturing ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit. With respect to the 100 percent liquidity coverage, in the event that the ABCP conduit is unable for any reason to repay maturing ABCP issued by the issuing entity, the liquidity provider shall be obligated to pay an amount equal to any shortfall, and the total amount that may be due pursuant to the 100 percent liquidity coverage shall be equal to 100 percent of the amount of the ABCP outstanding at any time plus accrued and unpaid interest (amounts due pursuant to the required liquidity coverage may not be subject to credit performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit or reduced by the amount of credit support provided to the ABCP conduit and liquidity support that only funds performing loans or receivables or performing ABS interests does not meet the requirements of this section).
Intermediate SPV
means a special purpose vehicle that:
(1)(i) Is a direct or indirect wholly-owned affiliate of the originator-seller; or
(ii) Has nominal equity owned by a trust or corporate service provider that specializes in providing independent ownership of special purpose vehicles, and such trust or corporate service provider is not affiliated with any other transaction parties;
(2) Is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the eligible ABCP conduit and from each originator-seller and each majority-owned affiliate in each case that, directly or indirectly, sells or transfers assets to such intermediate SPV;
(3) Acquires assets from the originator-seller that are originated by the originator-seller or acquired by the originator-seller in the acquisition of a business that qualifies for business combination accounting under GAAP or acquires ABS interests issued by another intermediate SPV of the originator-seller that are collateralized solely by such assets; and
(4) Issues ABS interests collateralized solely by such assets, as applicable.
Originator-seller
means an entity that originates assets and sells or transfers those assets, directly or through a majority-owned affiliate, to an intermediate SPV, and includes (except for the purposes of identifying the sponsorship and affiliation of an intermediate SPV pursuant to this § 244.6) any affiliate of the originator-seller that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under common majority control with, the originator-seller. For purposes of this definition, majority control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Regulated liquidity provider
means:
(1) A depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813));
(2) A bank holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1841), or a subsidiary thereof;
(3) A savings and loan holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1467a), provided all or substantially all of the holding company's activities are permissible for a financial holding company under 12 U.S.C. 1843(k), or a subsidiary thereof; or
(4) A foreign bank whose home country supervisor (as defined in § 211.21 of the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21)) has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended, and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof.
(b)
In general.
An ABCP conduit sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirement of § 244.3 with respect to the issuance of ABCP by an eligible ABCP conduit in a securitization transaction if, for each ABS interest the ABCP conduit acquires from an intermediate SPV:
(1) An originator-seller of the intermediate SPV retains an economic interest in the credit risk of the assets collateralizing the ABS interest acquired by the eligible ABCP conduit in the amount and manner required under § 244.4 or § 244.5; and
(2) The ABCP conduit sponsor:
(i) Approves each originator-seller permitted to sell or transfer assets, directly or indirectly, to an intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit acquires ABS interests;
(ii) Approves each intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit is permitted to acquire ABS interests;
(iii) Establishes criteria governing the ABS interests, and the securitized assets underlying the ABS interests, acquired by the ABCP conduit;
(iv) Administers the ABCP conduit by monitoring the ABS interests acquired by the ABCP conduit and the assets supporting those ABS interests, arranging for debt placement, compiling monthly reports, and ensuring compliance with the ABCP conduit documents and with the ABCP conduit's credit and investment policy; and
(v) Maintains and adheres to policies and procedures for ensuring that the requirements in this paragraph (b) of this section have been met.
(c)
Originator-seller compliance with risk retention.
The use of the risk retention option provided in this section by an ABCP conduit sponsor does not relieve the originator-seller that sponsors ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit from such originator-seller's obligation to comply with its own risk retention obligations under this part.
(d)
Disclosures
—(1)
Periodic disclosures to investors.
An ABCP conduit sponsor relying upon this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to each purchaser of ABCP, before or contemporaneously with the first sale of ABCP to such purchaser and at least monthly thereafter, to each holder of commercial paper issued by the ABCP conduit, in writing, each of the following items of information, which shall be as of a date not more than 60 days prior to date of first use with investors:
(i) The name and form of organization of the regulated liquidity provider that provides liquidity coverage to the eligible ABCP conduit, including a description of the material terms of such liquidity coverage, and notice of any failure to fund.
(ii) With respect to each ABS interest held by the ABCP conduit:
(A) The asset class or brief description of the underlying securitized assets;
(B) The standard industrial category code (SIC Code) for the originator-seller that will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization transaction; and
(C) A description of the percentage amount of risk retention pursuant to the rule by the originator-seller, and whether it is in the form of an eligible horizontal residual interest, vertical interest, or revolving pool securitization seller's interest, as applicable.
(2)
Disclosures to regulators regarding originator-sellers.
An ABCP conduit sponsor relying upon this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing, all of the information required to be provided to investors in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and the name and form of organization of each originator-seller that will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization transaction.
(e)
Sale or transfer of ABS interests between eligible ABCP conduits.
At any time, an eligible ABCP conduit that acquired an ABS interest in accordance with the requirements set forth in this section may transfer, and another eligible ABCP conduit may acquire, such ABS interest, if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The sponsors of both eligible ABCP conduits are in compliance with this section; and
(2) The same regulated liquidity provider has entered into one or more legally binding commitments to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage to all the ABCP issued by both eligible ABCP conduits.
(f)
Duty to comply.
(1) The ABCP conduit sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section.
(2) An ABCP conduit sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor compliance by each originator-seller which is satisfying a risk retention obligation in respect of ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(ii) In the event that the ABCP conduit sponsor determines that an originator-seller no longer complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall:
(A) Promptly notify the holders of the ABCP, and upon request, the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing of:
(
1
) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that fails to retain risk in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the amount of ABS interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit;
(
2
) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that hedges, directly or indirectly through an intermediate SPV, its risk retention in violation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the amount of ABS interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit; and
(
3
) Any remedial actions taken by the ABCP conduit sponsor or other party with respect to such ABS interests; and
(B) Take other appropriate steps pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section which may include, as appropriate, curing any breach of the requirements in this section, or removing from the eligible ABCP conduit any ABS interest that does not comply with the requirements in this section.
§ 244.7
Commercial mortgage-backed securities.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
Special servicer
means, with respect to any securitization of commercial real estate loans, any servicer that, upon the occurrence of one or more specified conditions in the servicing agreement, has the right to service one or more assets in the transaction.
(b)
Third-party purchaser.
A sponsor may satisfy some or all of its risk retention requirements under § 244.3 with respect to a securitization transaction if a third party (or any majority-owned affiliate thereof) purchases and holds for its own account an eligible horizontal residual interest in the issuing entity in the same form, amount, and manner as would be held by the sponsor under § 244.4 and all of the following conditions are met:
(1)
Number of third-party purchasers.
At any time, there are no more than two third-party purchasers of an eligible horizontal residual interest. If there are two third-party purchasers, each third-party purchaser's interest must be
pari passu
with the other third-party purchaser's interest.
(2)
Composition of collateral.
The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by commercial real estate loans and servicing assets.
(3)
Source of funds.
(i) Each third-party purchaser pays for the eligible horizontal residual interest in cash at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) No third-party purchaser obtains financing, directly or indirectly, for the purchase of such interest from any other person that is a party to, or an affiliate of a party to, the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or servicer other than a special servicer affiliated with the third-party purchaser), other than a person that is a party to the transaction solely by reason of being an investor.
(4)
Third-party review.
Each third-party purchaser conducts an independent review of the credit risk of each securitized asset prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the
securitization transaction that includes, at a minimum, a review of the underwriting standards, collateral, and expected cash flows of each commercial real estate loan that is collateral for the asset-backed securities.
(5)
Affiliation and control rights.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, no third-party purchaser is affiliated with any party to the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or servicer) other than investors in the securitization transaction.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, a third-party purchaser may be affiliated with:
(A) The special servicer for the securitization transaction; or
(B) One or more originators of the securitized assets, as long as the assets originated by the affiliated originator or originators collectively comprise less than 10 percent of the unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets included in the securitization transaction at the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(6)
Operating Advisor.
The underlying securitization transaction documents shall provide for the following:
(i) The appointment of an operating advisor (the Operating Advisor) that:
(A) Is not affiliated with other parties to the securitization transaction;
(B) Does not directly or indirectly have any financial interest in the securitization transaction other than in fees from its role as Operating Advisor; and
(C) Is required to act in the best interest of, and for the benefit of, investors as a collective whole;
(ii) Standards with respect to the Operating Advisor's experience, expertise and financial strength to fulfill its duties and responsibilities under the applicable transaction documents over the life of the securitization transaction;
(iii) The terms of the Operating Advisor's compensation with respect to the securitization transaction;
(iv) When the eligible horizontal residual interest has been reduced by principal payments, realized losses, and appraisal reduction amounts (which reduction amounts are determined in accordance with the applicable transaction documents) to a principal balance of 25 percent or less of its initial principal balance, the special servicer for the securitized assets must consult with the Operating Advisor in connection with, and prior to, any material decision in connection with its servicing of the securitized assets, including, without limitation:
(A) Any material modification of, or waiver with respect to, any provision of a loan agreement (including a mortgage, deed of trust, or other security agreement);
(B) Foreclosure upon or comparable conversion of the ownership of a property; or
(C) Any acquisition of a property.
(v) The Operating Advisor shall have adequate and timely access to information and reports necessary to fulfill its duties under the transaction documents, including all reports made available to holders of ABS interests and third-party purchasers, and shall be responsible for:
(A) Reviewing the actions of the special servicer;
(B) Reviewing all reports provided by the special servicer to the issuing entity or any holder of ABS interests;
(C) Reviewing for accuracy and consistency with the transaction documents calculations made by the special servicer; and
(D) Issuing a report to investors (including any third-party purchasers) and the issuing entity on a periodic basis concerning:
(
1
) Whether the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that the special servicer is operating in compliance with any standard required of the special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and
(
2
) Which, if any, standards the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, the special servicer has failed to comply.
(vi)(A) The Operating Advisor shall have the authority to recommend that the special servicer be replaced by a successor special servicer if the Operating Advisor determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that:
(
1
) The special servicer has failed to comply with a standard required of the special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and
(
2
) Such replacement would be in the best interest of the investors as a collective whole; and
(B) If a recommendation described in paragraph (b)(6)(vi)(A) of this section is made, the special servicer shall be replaced upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests voting on the matter, with a minimum of a quorum of ABS interests voting on the matter. For purposes of such vote, the applicable transaction documents shall specify the quorum and may not specify a quorum of more than the holders of 20 percent of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests in the issuing entity, with such quorum including at least three ABS interest holders that are not affiliated with each other.
(7)
Disclosures.
The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(i) The name and form of organization of each initial third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction;
(ii) A description of each initial third-party purchaser's experience in investing in commercial mortgage-backed securities;
(iii) Any other information regarding each initial third-party purchaser or each initial third-party purchaser's retention of the eligible horizontal residual interest that is material to investors in light of the circumstances of the particular securitization transaction;
(iv) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that will be retained (or was retained) by each initial third-party purchaser, as well as the amount of the purchase price paid by each initial third-party purchaser for such interest;
(v) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization transaction that the sponsor would have retained pursuant to § 244.4 if the sponsor had relied on retaining an eligible horizontal residual interest in that section to meet the requirements of § 244.3 with respect to the transaction;
(vi) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by each initial third-party purchaser, including the same information as is required to be disclosed by sponsors retaining horizontal interests pursuant to § 244.4;
(vii) The material terms of the applicable transaction documents with respect to the Operating Advisor, including without limitation:
(A) The name and form of organization of the Operating Advisor;
(B) A description of any material conflict of interest or material potential conflict of interest between the Operating Advisor and any other party to the transaction;
(C) The standards required by paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section and a description of how the Operating Advisor satisfies each of the standards; and
(D) The terms of the Operating Advisor's compensation under paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section; and
(viii) The representations and warranties concerning the securitized assets, a schedule of any securitized assets that are determined not to comply with such representations and warranties, and what factors were used to make the determination that such securitized assets should be included in the pool notwithstanding that the securitized assets did not comply with such representations and warranties,
such as compensating factors or a determination that the exceptions were not material.
(8)
Hedging, transfer and pledging
—(i)
General rule.
Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section, each third-party purchaser and its affiliates must comply with the hedging and other restrictions in § 244.12 as if it were the retaining sponsor with respect to the securitization transaction and had acquired the eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to § 244.4; provided that, the hedging and other restrictions in § 244.12 shall not apply on or after the date that each CRE loan (as defined in § 244.14) that serves as collateral for outstanding ABS interests has been defeased. For purposes of this section, a loan is deemed to be defeased if:
(A) cash or cash equivalents of the types permitted for an eligible horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 244.4 whose maturity corresponds to the remaining debt service obligations, have been pledged to the issuing entity as collateral for the loan and are in such amounts and payable at such times as necessary to timely generate cash sufficient to make all remaining debt service payments due on such loan; and
(B) the issuing entity has an obligation to release its lien on the loan.
(ii)
Exceptions
—(A)
Transfer by initial third-party purchaser or sponsor.
An initial third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction in accordance with this section, or a sponsor that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction in accordance with this section, may, on or after the date that is five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction, transfer that interest to a subsequent third-party purchaser that complies with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The initial third-party purchaser shall provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for the subsequent third-party purchaser.
(B)
Transfer by subsequent third-party purchaser.
At any time, a subsequent third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this section may transfer its interest to a different third-party purchaser that complies with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The transferring third-party purchaser shall provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for the acquiring third-party purchaser.
(C)
Requirements applicable to subsequent third-party purchasers.
A subsequent third-party purchaser is subject to all of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section applicable to third-party purchasers, provided that obligations under paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section that apply to initial third-party purchasers at or before the time of closing of the securitization transaction shall apply to successor third-party purchasers at or before the time of the transfer of the eligible horizontal residual interest to the successor third-party purchaser.
(c)
Duty to comply.
(1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section by itself and for compliance by each initial or subsequent third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization transaction.
(2) A sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures to monitor each third-party purchaser's compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section; and
(ii) In the event that the sponsor determines that a third-party purchaser no longer complies with one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), or (b)(8) of this section, shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by such third-party purchaser.
§ 244.8
Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ABS.
(a)
In general.
A sponsor satisfies its risk retention requirement under this part if the sponsor fully guarantees the
timely payment of principal and interest on all ABS interests issued by the issuing entity in the securitization transaction and is:
(1) The Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation operating under the conservatorship or receivership of the Federal Housing Finance Agency pursuant to section 1367 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617) with capital support from the United States; or
(2) Any limited-life regulated entity succeeding to the charter of either the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pursuant to section 1367(i) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617(i)), provided that the entity is operating with capital support from the United States.
(b)
Certain provisions not applicable.
The provisions of § 244.12(b), (c), and (d) shall not apply to a sponsor described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, its affiliates, or the issuing entity with respect to a securitization transaction for which the sponsor has retained credit risk in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(c)
Disclosure.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide to investors, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention” and, upon request, to the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Commission, a description of the manner in which it has met the credit risk retention requirements of this part.
§ 244.9
Open market CLOs.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
CLO
means a special purpose entity that:
(i) Issues debt and equity interests, and
(ii) Whose assets consist primarily of loans that are securitized assets and servicing assets.
CLO-eligible loan tranche
means a term loan of a syndicated facility that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
CLO manager
means an entity that manages a CLO, which entity is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
), or is an affiliate of such a registered investment adviser and itself is managed by such registered investment adviser.
Commercial borrower
means an obligor under a corporate credit obligation (including a loan).
Initial loan syndication transaction
means a transaction in which a loan is syndicated to a group of lenders.
Lead arranger
means, with respect to a CLO-eligible loan tranche, an institution that:
(i) Is active in the origination, structuring and syndication of commercial loan transactions (as defined in § 244.14) and has played a primary role in the structuring, underwriting and distribution on the primary market of the CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(ii) Has taken an allocation of the funded portion of the syndicated credit facility under the terms of the transaction that includes the CLO-eligible loan tranche of at least 20 percent of the aggregate principal balance at origination, and no other member (or members affiliated with each other) of the syndication group that funded at origination has taken a greater allocation; and
(iii) Is identified in the applicable agreement governing the CLO-eligible loan tranche; represents therein to the holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche and to any holders of participation interests in such CLO-eligible loan tranche that such lead arranger satisfies the requirements of paragraph (i) of this definition and, at the time of initial funding of the CLO-eligible tranche, will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (ii) of this definition; further represents therein (solely for the purpose of assisting such holders to determine the eligibility of such CLO-eligible loan tranche to be held by an open market CLO) that in the reasonable judgment of such lead arranger, the terms of such CLO-eligible loan tranche are consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section; and covenants therein to such holders that such lead arranger
will fulfill the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
Open market CLO
means a CLO:
(i) Whose assets consist of senior, secured syndicated loans acquired by such CLO directly from the sellers thereof in open market transactions and of servicing assets,
(ii) That is managed by a CLO manager, and
(iii) That holds less than 50 percent of its assets, by aggregate outstanding principal amount, in loans syndicated by lead arrangers that are affiliates of the CLO or the CLO manager or originated by originators that are affiliates of the CLO or the CLO manager.
Open market transaction
means:
(i) Either an initial loan syndication transaction or a secondary market transaction in which a seller offers senior, secured syndicated loans to prospective purchasers in the loan market on market terms on an arm's length basis, which prospective purchasers include, but are not limited to, entities that are not affiliated with the seller, or
(ii) A reverse inquiry from a prospective purchaser of a senior, secured syndicated loan through a dealer in the loan market to purchase a senior, secured syndicated loan to be sourced by the dealer in the loan market.
Secondary market transaction
means a purchase of a senior, secured syndicated loan not in connection with an initial loan syndication transaction but in the secondary market.
Senior, secured syndicated loan
means a loan made to a commercial borrower that:
(i) Is not subordinate in right of payment to any other obligation for borrowed money of the commercial borrower,
(ii) Is secured by a valid first priority security interest or lien in or on specified collateral securing the commercial borrower's obligations under the loan, and
(iii) The value of the collateral subject to such first priority security interest or lien, together with other attributes of the obligor (including, without limitation, its general financial condition, ability to generate cash flow available for debt service and other demands for that cash flow), is adequate (in the commercially reasonable judgment of the CLO manager exercised at the time of investment) to repay the loan and to repay all other indebtedness of equal seniority secured by such first priority security interest or lien in or on the same collateral, and the CLO manager certifies, on or prior to each date that it acquires a loan constituting part of a new CLO-eligible tranche, that it has policies and procedures to evaluate the likelihood of repayment of loans acquired by the CLO and it has followed such policies and procedures in evaluating each CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(b)
In general.
A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of § 244.3 with respect to an open market CLO transaction if:
(1) The open market CLO does not acquire or hold any assets other than CLO-eligible loan tranches that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and servicing assets;
(2) The governing documents of such open market CLO require that, at all times, the assets of the open market CLO consist of senior, secured syndicated loans that are CLO-eligible loan tranches and servicing assets;
(3) The open market CLO does not invest in ABS interests or in credit derivatives other than hedging transactions that are servicing assets to hedge risks of the open market CLO;
(4) All purchases of CLO-eligible loan tranches and other assets by the open market CLO issuing entity or through a warehouse facility used to accumulate the loans prior to the issuance of the CLO's ABS interests are made in open market transactions on an arms-length basis;
(5) The CLO manager of the open market CLO is not entitled to receive any management fee or gain on sale at the time the open market CLO issues its ABS interests.
(c)
CLO-eligible loan tranche.
To qualify as a CLO-eligible loan tranche, a term loan of a syndicated credit facility to a commercial borrower must have the following features:
(1) A minimum of 5 percent of the face amount of the CLO-eligible loan tranche is retained by the lead arranger thereof until the earliest of the repayment, maturity, involuntary and
unscheduled acceleration, payment default, or bankruptcy default of such CLO-eligible loan tranche, provided that such lead arranger complies with limitations on hedging, transferring and pledging in § 244.12 with respect to the interest retained by the lead arranger.
(2) Lender voting rights within the credit agreement and any intercreditor or other applicable agreements governing such CLO-eligible loan tranche are defined so as to give holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche consent rights with respect to, at minimum, any material waivers and amendments of such applicable documents, including but not limited to, adverse changes to the calculation or payments of amounts due to the holders of the CLO-eligible tranche, alterations to
pro rata
provisions, changes to voting provisions, and waivers of conditions precedent; and
(3) The pro rata provisions, voting provisions, and similar provisions applicable to the security associated with such CLO-eligible loan tranches under the CLO credit agreement and any intercreditor or other applicable agreements governing such CLO-eligible loan tranches are not materially less advantageous to the holder(s) of such CLO-eligible tranche than the terms of other tranches of comparable seniority in the broader syndicated credit facility.
(d)
Disclosures.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction and at least annually with respect to the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1)
Open market CLOs.
A complete list of every asset held by an open market CLO (or before the CLO's closing, in a warehouse facility in anticipation of transfer into the CLO at closing), including the following information:
(i) The full legal name, Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) category code, and legal entity identifier (LEI) issued by a utility endorsed or otherwise governed by the Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee or the Global LEI Foundation (if an LEI has been obtained by the obligor) of the obligor of the loan or asset;
(ii) The full name of the specific loan tranche held by the CLO;
(iii) The face amount of the entire loan tranche held by the CLO, and the face amount of the portion thereof held by the CLO;
(iv) The price at which the loan tranche was acquired by the CLO; and
(v) For each loan tranche, the full legal name of the lead arranger subject to the sales and hedging restrictions of § 244.12; and
(2)
CLO manager.
The full legal name and form of organization of the CLO manager.
§ 244.10
Qualified tender option bonds.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Municipal security
or
municipal securities
shall have the same meaning as the term “municipal securities” in Section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29)) and any rules promulgated pursuant to such section.
Qualified tender option bond entity
means an issuing entity with respect to tender option bonds for which each of the following applies:
(i) Such entity is collateralized solely by servicing assets and by municipal securities that have the same municipal issuer and the same underlying obligor or source of payment (determined without regard to any third-party credit enhancement), and such municipal securities are not subject to substitution.
(ii) Such entity issues no securities other than:
(A) A single class of tender option bonds with a preferred variable return payable out of capital that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, and
(B) One or more residual equity interests that, in the aggregate, are entitled to all remaining income of the issuing entity.
(C) The types of securities referred to in paragraphs (ii)(A) and (B) of this definition must constitute asset-backed securities.
(iii) The municipal securities held as assets by such entity are issued in compliance with Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRS Code”, 26 U.S.C. 103), such that the interest payments made on those securities are excludable from the gross income of the owners under Section 103 of the IRS Code.
(iv) The terms of all of the securities issued by the entity are structured so that all holders of such securities who are eligible to exclude interest received on such securities will be able to exclude that interest from gross income pursuant to Section 103 of the IRS Code or as “exempt-interest dividends” pursuant to Section 852(b)(5) of the IRS Code (26 U.S.C. 852(b)(5)) in the case of regulated investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(v) Such entity has a legally binding commitment from a regulated liquidity provider as defined in § 244.6(a), to provide a 100 percent guarantee or liquidity coverage with respect to all of the issuing entity's outstanding tender option bonds.
(vi) Such entity qualifies for monthly closing elections pursuant to IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Tender option bond
means a security which has features which entitle the holders to tender such bonds to the issuing entity for purchase at any time upon no more than 397 days' notice, for a purchase price equal to the approximate amortized cost of the security, plus accrued interest, if any, at the time of tender.
(b)
Risk retention options.
Notwithstanding anything in this section, the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds may retain an eligible vertical interest or eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of § 244.4. In order to satisfy its risk retention requirements under this section, the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may retain:
(1) An eligible vertical interest or an eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of § 244.4; or
(2) An interest that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(3) A municipal security that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(4) Any combination of interests and securities described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section such that the sum of the percentages held in each form equals at least five.
(c)
Tender option termination event.
The sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may retain an interest that upon issuance meets the requirements of an eligible horizontal residual interest but that upon the occurrence of a “tender option termination event” as defined in Section 4.01(5) of IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time will meet the requirements of an eligible vertical interest.
(d)
Retention of a municipal security outside of the qualified tender option bond entity.
The sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may satisfy its risk retention requirements under this Section by holding municipal securities from the same issuance of municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity, the face value of which retained municipal securities is equal to 5 percent of the face value of the municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity.
(e)
Disclosures.
The sponsor shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1) The name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity;
(2) A description of the form and subordination features of such retained interest in accordance with the disclosure obligations in § 244.4(c);
(3) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as an eligible horizontal residual interest (including any interest held in compliance with § 244.10(c)), the fair value of that interest (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and as a dollar amount);
(4) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as an eligible vertical interest (including any interest held in compliance with § 244.10(c)), the percentage of ABS interests issued represented by the eligible vertical interest; and
(5) To the extent any portion of the retained interest claimed by the sponsor is a municipal security held outside of the qualified tender option bond entity, the name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity, the identity of the issuer of the municipal securities, the face value of the municipal securities deposited into the qualified tender option bond entity, and the face value of the municipal securities retained by the sponsor or its majority-owned affiliates and subject to the transfer and hedging prohibition.
(f)
Prohibitions on Hedging and Transfer.
The prohibitions on transfer and hedging set forth in § 244.12, apply to any interests or municipal securities retained by the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity pursuant to of this section.

# Subpart C—Transfer of Risk Retention
§ 244.11
Allocation of risk retention to an originator.
(a)
In general.
A sponsor choosing to retain an eligible vertical interest or an eligible horizontal residual interest (including an eligible horizontal cash reserve account), or combination thereof under § 244.4, with respect to a securitization transaction may offset the amount of its risk retention requirements under § 244.4 by the amount of the eligible interests, respectively, acquired by an originator of one or more of the securitized assets if:
(1) At the closing of the securitization transaction:
(i) The originator acquires the eligible interest from the sponsor and retains such interest in the same manner and proportion (as between horizontal and vertical interests) as the sponsor under § 244.4, as such interest was held prior to the acquisition by the originator;
(ii) The ratio of the percentage of eligible interests acquired and retained by the originator to the percentage of eligible interests otherwise required to be retained by the sponsor pursuant to § 244.4, does not exceed the ratio of:
(A) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets originated by the originator; to
(B) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets in the securitization transaction;
(iii) The originator acquires and retains at least 20 percent of the aggregate risk retention amount otherwise required to be retained by the sponsor pursuant to § 244.4; and
(iv) The originator purchases the eligible interests from the sponsor at a price that is equal, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, to the amount by which the sponsor's required risk retention is reduced in accordance with this section, by payment to the sponsor in the form of:
(A) Cash; or
(B) A reduction in the price received by the originator from the sponsor or depositor for the assets sold by the originator to the sponsor or depositor for inclusion in the pool of securitized assets.
(2)
Disclosures.
In addition to the disclosures required pursuant to § 244.4(c), the sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, the name and form of organization of any originator that will acquire and retain
(or has acquired and retained) an interest in the transaction pursuant to this section, including a description of the form and amount (expressed as a percentage and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) and nature (
e.g.,
senior or subordinated) of the interest, as well as the method of payment for such interest under paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.
(3)
Hedging, transferring and pledging.
The originator and each of its affiliates complies with the hedging and other restrictions in § 244.12 with respect to the interests retained by the originator pursuant to this section as if it were the retaining sponsor and was required to retain the interest under subpart B of this part.
(b)
Duty to comply.
(1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section.
(2) A retaining sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor the compliance by each originator that is allocated a portion of the sponsor's risk retention obligations with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section; and
(ii) In the event the sponsor determines that any such originator no longer complies with any of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section, shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by such originator.
§ 244.12
Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.
(a)
Transfer.
Except as permitted by § 244.7(b)(8), and subject to § 244.5, a retaining sponsor may not sell or otherwise transfer any interest or assets that the sponsor is required to retain pursuant to subpart B of this part to any person other than an entity that is and remains a majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor and each such majority-owned affiliate shall be subject to the same restrictions.
(b)
Prohibited hedging by sponsor and affiliates.
A retaining sponsor and its affiliates may not purchase or sell a security, or other financial instrument, or enter into an agreement, derivative or other position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way reduces or limits the financial exposure of the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction.
(c)
Prohibited hedging by issuing entity.
The issuing entity in a securitization transaction may not purchase or sell a security or other financial instrument, or enter into an agreement, derivative or position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor for the transaction (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to the securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way reduces or limits the financial exposure of the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the sponsor
(or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain pursuant to subpart B of this part.
(d)
Permitted hedging activities.
The following activities shall not be considered prohibited hedging activities under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section:
(1) Hedging the interest rate risk (which does not include the specific interest rate risk, known as spread risk, associated with the ABS interest that is otherwise considered part of the credit risk) or foreign exchange risk arising from one or more of the particular ABS interests required to be retained by the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) under subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that underlie the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction; or
(2) Purchasing or selling a security or other financial instrument or entering into an agreement, derivative, or other position with any third party where payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are based, directly or indirectly, on an index of instruments that includes asset-backed securities if:
(i) Any class of ABS interests in the issuing entity that were issued in connection with the securitization transaction and that are included in the index represents no more than 10 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included in the index; and
(ii) All classes of ABS interests in all issuing entities that were issued in connection with any securitization transaction in which the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain an interest pursuant to subpart B of this part and that are included in the index represent, in the aggregate, no more than 20 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included in the index.
(e)
Prohibited non-recourse financing.
Neither a retaining sponsor nor any of its affiliates may pledge as collateral for any obligation (including a loan, repurchase agreement, or other financing transaction) any ABS interest that the sponsor is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part unless such obligation is with full recourse to the sponsor or affiliate, respectively.
(f)
Duration of the hedging and transfer restrictions
—(1)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire on or after the date that is the latest of:
(i) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance (if applicable) of the securitized assets that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(ii) The date on which the total unpaid principal obligations under the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal obligations of the ABS interests at closing of the securitization transaction; or
(iii) Two years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
(2)
Securitizations of residential mortgages.
(i) If all of the assets that collateralize a securitization transaction subject to risk retention under this part are residential mortgages, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire on or after the date that is the later of:
(A) Five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction; or
(B) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance of the residential mortgages that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 25 percent of the total unpaid principal balance of such residential
mortgages at the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire with respect to the sponsor of a securitization transaction described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section on or after the date that is seven years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
(3)
Conservatorship or receivership of sponsor.
A conservator or receiver of the sponsor (or any other person holding risk retention pursuant to this part) of a securitization transaction is permitted to sell or hedge any economic interest in the securitization transaction if the conservator or receiver has been appointed pursuant to any provision of federal or State law (or regulation promulgated thereunder) that provides for the appointment of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or an agency or instrumentality of the United States or of a State as conservator or receiver, including without limitation any of the following authorities:
(i) 12 U.S.C. 1811;
(ii) 12 U.S.C. 1787;
(iii) 12 U.S.C. 4617; or
(iv) 12 U.S.C. 5382.
(4)
Revolving pool securitizations.
The provisions of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) are not available to sponsors of revolving pool securitizations with respect to the forms of risk retention specified in § 244.5.

# Subpart D—Exceptions and Exemptions
§ 244.13
Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Currently performing
means the borrower in the mortgage transaction is not currently thirty (30) days or more past due, in whole or in part, on the mortgage transaction.
Qualified residential mortgage
means a “qualified mortgage” as defined in section 129C of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.1639c) and regulations issued thereunder, as amended from time to time.
(b)
Exemption.
A sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in subpart B of this part with respect to any securitization transaction, if:
(1) All of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are qualified residential mortgages or servicing assets;
(2) None of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are asset-backed securities;
(3) As of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, each qualified residential mortgage collateralizing the asset-backed securities is currently performing; and
(4)(i) The depositor with respect to the securitization transaction certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the asset-backed security are qualified residential mortgages or servicing assets and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective; and
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls must be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security in reliance on this section, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(c)
Repurchase of loans subsequently determined to be non-qualified after closing.
A sponsor that has relied on the exemption provided in paragraph (b) of
this section with respect to a securitization transaction shall not lose such exemption with respect to such transaction if, after closing of the securitization transaction, it is determined that one or more of the residential mortgage loans collateralizing the asset-backed securities does not meet all of the criteria to be a qualified residential mortgage
provided that:
(1) The depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section;
(2) The sponsor repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) no later than 90 days after the determination that the loans do not satisfy the requirements to be a qualified residential mortgage; and
(3) The sponsor promptly notifies, or causes to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is (or are) required to be repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, including the amount of such repurchased loan(s) and the cause for such repurchase.
§ 244.14
Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans, qualifying commercial real estate loans, and qualifying automobile loans.
The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 244.15 through 244.18:
Appraisal Standards Board
means the board of the Appraisal Foundation that develops, interprets, and amends the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP), establishing generally accepted standards for the appraisal profession.
Automobile loan:
(1) Means any loan to an individual to finance the purchase of, and that is secured by a first lien on, a passenger car or other passenger vehicle, such as a minivan, van, sport-utility vehicle, pickup truck, or similar light truck for personal, family, or household use; and
(2) Does not include any:
(i) Loan to finance fleet sales;
(ii) Personal cash loan secured by a previously purchased automobile;
(iii) Loan to finance the purchase of a commercial vehicle or farm equipment that is not used for personal, family, or household purposes;
(iv) Lease financing;
(v) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle with a salvage title; or
(vi) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle intended to be used for scrap or parts.
Combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio
means, at the time of origination, the sum of the principal balance of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property, plus the principal balance of any junior-lien mortgage loan that, to the creditor's knowledge, would exist at the closing of the transaction and that is secured by the same property, divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 244.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 244.17(a)(2)(ii).
Commercial loan
means a secured or unsecured loan to a company or an individual for business purposes, other than any:
(1) Loan to purchase or refinance a one-to-four family residential property;
(2) Commercial real estate loan.
Commercial real estate (CRE) loan
means:
(1) A loan secured by a property with five or more single family units, or by nonfarm nonresidential real property, the primary source (50 percent or more) of repayment for which is expected to be:
(i) The proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property; or
(ii) Rental income associated with the property;
(2) Loans secured by improved land if the obligor owns the fee interest in the land and the land is leased to a third party who owns all improvements on the land, and the improvements are nonresidential or residential with five or more single family units; and
(3) Does not include:
(i) A land development and construction loan (including 1- to 4-family residential or commercial construction loans);
(ii) Any other land loan; or
(iii) An unsecured loan to a developer.
Debt service coverage (DSC) ratio
means:
(1) For qualifying leased CRE loans, qualifying multi-family loans, and other CRE loans:
(i) The annual NOI less the annual replacement reserve of the CRE property at the time of origination of the CRE loan(s) divided by
(ii) The sum of the borrower's annual payments for principal and interest (calculated at the fully-indexed rate) on any debt obligation.
(2) For commercial loans:
(i) The borrower's EBITDA as of the most recently completed fiscal year divided by
(ii) The sum of the borrower's annual payments for principal and interest on all debt obligations.
Debt to income (DTI) ratio
means the borrower's total debt, including the monthly amount due on the automobile loan, divided by the borrower's monthly income.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA)
means the annual income of a business before expenses for interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are deducted, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Environmental risk assessment
means a process for determining whether a property is contaminated or exposed to any condition or substance that could result in contamination that has an adverse effect on the market value of the property or the realization of the collateral value.
First lien
means a lien or encumbrance on property that has priority over all other liens or encumbrances on the property.
Junior lien
means a lien or encumbrance on property that is lower in priority relative to other liens or encumbrances on the property.
Leverage ratio
means the borrower's total debt divided by the borrower's EBITDA.
Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio
means, at the time of origination, the principal balance of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 244.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 244.17(a)(2)(ii).
Model year
means the year determined by the manufacturer and reflected on the vehicle's Motor Vehicle Title as part of the vehicle description.
Net operating income (NOI)
refers to the income a CRE property generates for the owner after all expenses have been deducted for federal income tax purposes, except for depreciation, debt service expenses, and federal and state income taxes, and excluding any unusual and nonrecurring items of income.
Operating affiliate
means an affiliate of a borrower that is a lessor or similar party with respect to the commercial real estate securing the loan.
Payments-in-kind
means payments of accrued interest that are not paid in cash when due, and instead are paid by increasing the principal balance of the loan or by providing equity in the borrowing company.
Purchase money security interest
means a security interest in property that secures the obligation of the obligor incurred as all or part of the price of the property.
Purchase price
means the amount paid by the borrower for the vehicle net of any incentive payments or manufacturer cash rebates.
Qualified tenant
means:
(1) A tenant with a lease who has satisfied all obligations with respect to the property in a timely manner; or
(2) A tenant who originally had a lease that subsequently expired and currently is leasing the property on a month-to-month basis, has occupied the property for at least three years prior to the date of origination, and
has satisfied all obligations with respect to the property in a timely manner.
Qualifying leased CRE loan
means a CRE loan secured by commercial nonfarm real property, other than a multi-family property or a hotel, inn, or similar property:
(1) That is occupied by one or more qualified tenants pursuant to a lease agreement with a term of no less than one (1) month; and
(2) Where no more than 20 percent of the aggregate gross revenue of the property is payable from one or more tenants who:
(i) Are subject to a lease that will terminate within six months following the date of origination; or
(ii) Are not qualified tenants.
Qualifying multi-family loan
means a CRE loan secured by any residential property (excluding a hotel, motel, inn, hospital, nursing home, or other similar facility where dwellings are not leased to residents):
(1) That consists of five or more dwelling units (including apartment buildings, condominiums, cooperatives and other similar structures) primarily for residential use; and
(2) Where at least 75 percent of the NOI is derived from residential rents and tenant amenities (including income from parking garages, health or swim clubs, and dry cleaning), and not from other commercial uses.
Rental income
means:
(1) Income derived from a lease or other occupancy agreement between the borrower or an operating affiliate of the borrower and a party which is not an affiliate of the borrower for the use of real property or improvements serving as collateral for the applicable loan; and
(2) Other income derived from hotel, motel, dormitory, nursing home, assisted living, mini-storage warehouse or similar properties that are used primarily by parties that are not affiliates or employees of the borrower or its affiliates.
Replacement reserve
means the monthly capital replacement or maintenance amount based on the property type, age, construction and condition of the property that is adequate to maintain the physical condition and NOI of the property.
Salvage title
means a form of vehicle title branding, which notes that the vehicle has been severely damaged and/or deemed a total loss and uneconomical to repair by an insurance company that paid a claim on the vehicle.
Total debt,
with respect to a borrower, means:
(1) In the case of an automobile loan, the sum of:
(i) All monthly housing payments (rent- or mortgage-related, including property taxes, insurance and home owners association fees); and
(ii) Any of the following that is dependent upon the borrower's income for payment:
(A) Monthly payments on other debt and lease obligations, such as credit card loans or installment loans, including the monthly amount due on the automobile loan;
(B) Estimated monthly amortizing payments for any term debt, debts with other than monthly payments and debts not in repayment (such as deferred student loans, interest-only loans); and
(C) Any required monthly alimony, child support or court-ordered payments; and
(2) In the case of a commercial loan, the outstanding balance of all long-term debt (obligations that have a remaining maturity of more than one year) and the current portion of all debt that matures in one year or less.
Total liabilities ratio
means the borrower's total liabilities divided by the sum of the borrower's total liabilities and equity, less the borrower's intangible assets, with each component determined in accordance with GAAP.
Trade-in allowance
means the amount a vehicle purchaser is given as a credit at the purchase of a vehicle for the fair exchange of the borrower's existing vehicle to compensate the dealer for some portion of the vehicle purchase price, not to exceed the highest trade-in value of the existing vehicle, as determined by a nationally recognized automobile pricing agency and based on the manufacturer, year, model, features, mileage, and condition of the vehicle, less the payoff balance of any
outstanding debt collateralized by the existing vehicle.
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP)
means generally accepted standards for professional appraisal practice issued by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation.
§ 244.15
Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
(a)
General exception for qualifying assets.
Commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans that are securitized through a securitization transaction shall be subject to a 0 percent risk retention requirement under subpart B, provided that the following conditions are met:
(1) The assets meet the underwriting standards set forth in § 244.16 (qualifying commercial loans), § 244.17 (qualifying CRE loans), or § 244.18 (qualifying automobile loans) of this part, as applicable;
(2) The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by loans of the same asset class and by servicing assets;
(3) The securitization transaction does not permit reinvestment periods; and
(4) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities of the issuing entity, and, upon request, to the Commission, and to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a description of the manner in which the sponsor determined the aggregate risk retention requirement for the securitization transaction after including qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans with 0 percent risk retention.
(b)
Risk retention requirement.
For any securitization transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section, the percentage of risk retention required under § 244.3(a) is reduced by the percentage evidenced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans (as applicable) to the total unpaid principal balance of commercial loans, CRE loans, or automobile loans (as applicable) that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction (the qualifying asset ratio); provided that:
(1) The qualifying asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(2) If the qualifying asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the qualifying asset ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent; and
(3) The disclosure required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section also includes descriptions of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, and qualifying automobile loans (qualifying assets) and descriptions of the assets that are not qualifying assets, and the material differences between the group of qualifying assets and the group of assets that are not qualifying assets with respect to the composition of each group's loan balances, loan terms, interest rates, borrower credit information, and characteristics of any loan collateral.
(c)
Exception for securitizations of qualifying assets only.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, the risk retention requirements of subpart B of this part shall not apply to securitization transactions where the transaction is collateralized solely by servicing assets and either qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans.
(d)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the certifications required in §§ 244.16(a)(8), 244.17(a)(10), and 244.18(a)(8), as applicable, in its records until three years after all ABS interests issued in the securitization are no longer outstanding. The sponsor must provide the disclosures and certifications upon request to the Commission and the sponsor's appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
§ 244.16
Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) Prior to origination of the commercial loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented the financial condition of the borrower:
(A) As of the end of the borrower's two most recently completed fiscal years; and
(B) During the period, if any, since the end of its most recently completed fiscal year;
(ii) Conducted an analysis of the borrower's ability to service its overall debt obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections;
(iii) Determined that, based on the previous two years' actual performance, the borrower had:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater;
(iv) Determined that, based on the two years of projections, which include the new debt obligation, following the closing date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater.
(2) Prior to, upon or promptly following the inception of the loan, the originator:
(i) If the loan is originated on a secured basis, obtains a perfected security interest (by filing, title notation or otherwise) or, in the case of real property, a recorded lien, on all of the property pledged to collateralize the loan; and
(ii) If the loan documents indicate the purpose of the loan is to finance the purchase of tangible or intangible property, or to refinance such a loan, obtains a first lien on the property.
(3) The loan documentation for the commercial loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide to the servicer of the commercial loan the borrower's financial statements and supporting schedules on an ongoing basis, but not less frequently than quarterly;
(ii) Prohibit the borrower from retaining or entering into a debt arrangement that permits payments-in-kind;
(iii) Impose limits on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest or lien with respect to any of the borrower's property that serves as collateral for the loan;
(B) The transfer of any of the borrower's assets that serve as collateral for the loan; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of the borrower, or any other party that pledges collateral for the loan;
(iv) Require the borrower and any other party that pledges collateral for the loan to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on the collateral for the commercial loan at least up to the amount of the loan, and that names the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan as an additional insured or loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a lien on any collateral;
(C) Take any action required to perfect or protect the security interest and first lien (as applicable) of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan in any collateral for the commercial loan or the priority thereof, and to defend any collateral against claims adverse to the lender's interest;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer of the loan, to inspect any collateral for the commercial loan and the books and records of the borrower; and
(E) Maintain the physical condition of any collateral for the commercial loan.
(4) Loan payments required under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed rate) that fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed five years from the date of origination; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than quarterly over a term that does not exceed five years.
(5) The primary source of repayment for the loan is revenue from the business operations of the borrower.
(6) The loan was funded within the six (6) months prior to the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(7) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current.
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying commercial loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 244.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 244.15 with respect to a qualifying commercial loan and it is subsequently determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the commercial loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 244.17
Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) The CRE loan must be secured by the following:
(i) An enforceable first lien, documented and recorded appropriately pursuant to applicable law, on the commercial real estate and improvements;
(ii)(A) An assignment of:
(
1
) Leases and rents and other occupancy agreements related to the commercial real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an operating affiliate is a lessor or similar party and all payments under such leases and occupancy agreements; and
(
2
) All franchise, license and concession agreements related to the commercial real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an operating affiliate is a lessor, licensor, concession granter or similar party and all payments under
such other agreements, whether the assignments described in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A)(
2
) are absolute or are stated to be made to the extent permitted by the agreements governing the applicable franchise, license or concession agreements;
(B) An assignment of all other payments due to the borrower or due to any operating affiliate in connection with the operation of the property described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; and
(C) The right to enforce the agreements described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and the agreements under which payments under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section are due against, and collect amounts due from, each lessee, occupant or other obligor whose payments were assigned pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section upon a breach by the borrower of any of the terms of, or the occurrence of any other event of default (however denominated) under, the loan documents relating to such CRE loan; and
(iii) A security interest:
(A) In all interests of the borrower and any applicable operating affiliate in all tangible and intangible personal property of any kind, in or used in the operation of or in connection with, pertaining to, arising from, or constituting, any of the collateral described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section; and
(B) In the form of a perfected security interest if the security interest in such property can be perfected by the filing of a financing statement, fixture filing, or similar document pursuant to the law governing the perfection of such security interest;
(2) Prior to origination of the CRE loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented the current financial condition of the borrower and each operating affiliate;
(ii) Obtained a written appraisal of the real property securing the loan that:
(A) Had an effective date not more than six months prior to the origination date of the loan by a competent and appropriately State-certified or State-licensed appraiser;
(B) Conforms to generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the USPAP and the appraisal requirements
1
of the Federal banking agencies; and
1
12 CFR part 34, subpart C (OCC); 12 CFR part 208, subpart E, and 12 CFR part 225, subpart G (Board); and 12 CFR part 323 (FDIC).
(C) Provides an “as is” opinion of the market value of the real property, which includes an income approach;
2
2
See USPAP, Standard 1.
(iii) Qualified the borrower for the CRE loan based on a monthly payment amount derived from level monthly payments consisting of both principal and interest (at the fully-indexed rate) over the term of the loan, not exceeding 25 years, or 30 years for a qualifying multi-family property;
(iv) Conducted an environmental risk assessment to gain environmental information about the property securing the loan and took appropriate steps to mitigate any environmental liability determined to exist based on this assessment;
(v) Conducted an analysis of the borrower's ability to service its overall debt obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections (including operating income projections for the property);
(vi)(A) Determined that based on the two years' actual performance immediately preceding the origination of the loan, the borrower would have had:
(
1
) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(
2
) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family property loan; or
(
3
) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan;
(B) If the borrower did not own the property for any part of the last two years prior to origination, the calculation of the DSC ratio, for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, shall include the property's operating income for any portion of the two-year period during which the borrower did not own the property;
(vii) Determined that, based on two years of projections, which include the new debt obligation, following the
origination date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(B) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family property loan; or
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan.
(3) The loan documentation for the CRE loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide the borrower's financial statements and supporting schedules to the servicer on an ongoing basis, but not less frequently than quarterly, including information on existing, maturing and new leasing or rent-roll activity for the property securing the loan, as appropriate; and
(ii) Impose prohibitions on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest with respect to the collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(B) The transfer of any collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section or of any other collateral consisting of fixtures, furniture, furnishings, machinery or equipment other than any such fixture, furniture, furnishings, machinery or equipment that is obsolete or surplus; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of any borrower, operating affiliate or other pledgor unless such borrower, operating affiliate or other pledgor shall have given the holder of the loan at least 30 days advance notice and, pursuant to applicable law governing perfection and priority, the holder of the loan is able to take all steps necessary to continue its perfection and priority during such 30-day period.
(iii) Require each borrower and each operating affiliate to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for an amount no less than the replacement cost of the property improvements, and names the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan as an additional insured or lender loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a lien on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section;
(C) Take any action required to:
(
1
) Protect the security interest and the enforceability and priority thereof in the collateral described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and defend such collateral against claims adverse to the originator's or any subsequent holder's interest; and
(
2
) Perfect the security interest of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan in any other collateral for the CRE loan to the extent that such security interest is required by this section to be perfected;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer, to inspect any collateral for the CRE loan and the books and records of the borrower or other party relating to any collateral for the CRE loan;
(E) Maintain the physical condition of collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(F) Comply with all environmental, zoning, building code, licensing and other laws, regulations, agreements, covenants, use restrictions, and proffers applicable to collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(G) Comply with leases, franchise agreements, condominium declarations, and other documents and agreements relating to the operation of collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and to not modify any material terms and conditions of such agreements over the term of the loan without the consent of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, or the servicer; and
(H) Not materially alter collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section without the consent of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, or the servicer.
(4) The loan documentation for the CRE loan prohibits the borrower and each operating affiliate from obtaining a loan secured by a junior lien on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, unless:
(i) The sum of the principal amount of such junior lien loan, plus the principal amount of all other loans secured by collateral described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, does not exceed the applicable CLTV ratio in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, based on the appraisal at origination of such junior lien loan; or
(ii) Such loan is a purchase money obligation that financed the acquisition of machinery or equipment and the borrower or operating affiliate (as applicable) pledges such machinery and equipment as additional collateral for the CRE loan.
(5) At origination, the applicable loan-to-value ratios for the loan are:
(i) LTV less than or equal to 65 percent and CLTV less than or equal to 70 percent; or
(ii) LTV less than or equal to 60 percent and CLTV less than or equal to 65 percent, if an appraisal used to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section used a direct capitalization rate, and that rate is less than or equal to the sum of:
(A) The 10-year swap rate, as reported in the Federal Reserve's H.15 Report (or any successor report) as of the date concurrent with the effective date of such appraisal; and
(B) 300 basis points.
(iii) If the appraisal required under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section included a direct capitalization method using an overall capitalization rate, that rate must be disclosed to potential investors in the securitization.
(6) All loan payments required to be made under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed rate) to fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed 25 years, or 30 years for a qualifying multifamily loan; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than monthly over a term of at least ten years.
(7) Under the terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Any maturity of the note occurs no earlier than ten years following the date of origination;
(ii) The borrower is not permitted to defer repayment of principal or payment of interest; and
(iii) The interest rate on the loan is:
(A) A fixed interest rate;
(B) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that effectively results in a fixed interest rate; or
(C) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that established a cap on the interest rate for the term of the loan, and the loan meets the underwriting criteria in paragraphs (a)(2)(vi) and (vii) of this section using the maximum interest rate allowable under the interest rate cap.
(8) The originator does not establish an interest reserve at origination to fund all or part of a payment on the loan.
(9) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current.
(10)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying CRE loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 244.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security;
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any; and
(11) Within two weeks of the closing of the CRE loan by its originator or, if sooner, prior to the transfer of such CRE loan to the issuing entity, the originator shall have obtained a UCC lien search from the jurisdiction of organization of the borrower and each operating affiliate, that does not report, as of the time that the security interest of the originator in the property described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section was perfected, other higher priority liens of record on any property described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, other than purchase money security interests.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 244.15 with respect to a qualifying CRE loan and it is subsequently determined that the CRE loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) and (a)(11) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the CRE loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(10) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) and (a)(11) of this section is not material; or;
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) or (a)(11) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, restoring conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such repurchased loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 244.18
Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) Prior to origination of the automobile loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented that within 30 days of the date of origination:
(A) The borrower was not currently 30 days or more past due, in whole or in part, on any debt obligation;
(B) Within the previous 24 months, the borrower has not been 60 days or more past due, in whole or in part, on any debt obligation;
(C) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not:
(
1
) Been a debtor in a proceeding commenced under Chapter 7 (Liquidation), Chapter 11 (Reorganization), Chapter 12 (Family Farmer or Family Fisherman plan), or Chapter 13 (Individual Debt Adjustment) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; or
(
2
) Been the subject of any federal or State judicial judgment for the collection of any unpaid debt;
(D) Within the previous 36 months, no one-to-four family property owned by the borrower has been the subject of any foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or short sale; or
(E) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not had any personal property repossessed;
(ii) Determined and documented that the borrower has at least 24 months of credit history; and
(iii) Determined and documented that, upon the origination of the loan, the borrower's DTI ratio is less than or equal to 36 percent.
(A) For the purpose of making the determination under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the originator must:
(
1
) Verify and document all income of the borrower that the originator includes in the borrower's effective
monthly income (using payroll stubs, tax returns, profit and loss statements, or other similar documentation); and
(
2
) On or after the date of the borrower's written application and prior to origination, obtain a credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintain files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p)) and verify that all outstanding debts reported in the borrower's credit report are incorporated into the calculation of the borrower's DTI ratio under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section;
(2) An originator will be deemed to have met the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section if:
(i) The originator, no more than 30 days before the closing of the loan, obtains a credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p));
(ii) Based on the information in such credit report, the borrower meets all of the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and no information in a credit report subsequently obtained by the originator before the closing of the loan contains contrary information; and
(iii) The originator obtains electronic or hard copies of the credit report.
(3) At closing of the automobile loan, the borrower makes a down payment from the borrower's personal funds and trade-in allowance, if any, that is at least equal to the sum of:
(i) The full cost of the vehicle title, tax, and registration fees;
(ii) Any dealer-imposed fees;
(iii) The full cost of any additional warranties, insurance or other products purchased in connection with the purchase of the vehicle; and
(iv) 10 percent of the vehicle purchase price.
(4) The originator records a first lien securing the loan on the purchased vehicle in accordance with State law.
(5) The terms of the loan agreement provide a maturity date for the loan that does not exceed the lesser of:
(i) Six years from the date of origination; or
(ii) 10 years minus the difference between the current model year and the vehicle's model year.
(6) The terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Specify a fixed rate of interest for the life of the loan;
(ii) Provide for a level monthly payment amount that fully amortizes the amount financed over the loan term;
(iii) Do not permit the borrower to defer repayment of principal or payment of interest; and
(iv) Require the borrower to make the first payment on the automobile loan within 45 days of the loan's contract date.
(7) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current; and
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying automobile loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 244.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 244.15 with respect to a
qualifying automobile loan and it is subsequently determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the automobile loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than ninety (90) days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 244.19
General exemptions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Community-focused residential mortgage
means a residential mortgage exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a)(3)(iv) and (v) of the CFPB's Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)).
First pay class
means a class of ABS interests for which all interests in the class are entitled to the same priority of payment and that, at the time of closing of the transaction, is entitled to repayments of principal and payments of interest prior to or pro-rata with all other classes of securities collateralized by the same pool of first-lien residential mortgages, until such class has no principal or notional balance remaining.
Inverse floater
means an ABS interest issued as part of a securitization transaction for which interest or other income is payable to the holder based on a rate or formula that varies inversely to a reference rate of interest.
Qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan
means a mortgage loan that is:
(i) Secured by a dwelling (as defined in 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(19)) that is owner occupied and contains three-to-four housing units;
(ii) Is deemed to be for business purposes for purposes of Regulation Z under 12 CFR part 1026, supplement I, paragraph 3(a)(5)(i); and
(iii) Otherwise meets all of the requirements to qualify as a qualified mortgage under § 1026.43(e) and (f) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(e) and (f)) as if the loan were a covered transaction under that section.
(b) This part shall not apply to:
(1)
U.S. Government-backed securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan assets that are insured or guaranteed (in whole or in part) as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States, and servicing assets; or
(ii) Involves the issuance of asset-backed securities that:
(A) Are insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States; and
(B) Are collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan assets or interests in such assets, and servicing assets.
(2)
Certain agricultural loan securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by loans or other assets made, insured, guaranteed, or purchased by any institution that is subject to the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, and servicing assets;
(3)
State and municipal securitizations.
Any asset-backed security that is a security issued or guaranteed by any State, or by any political subdivision of a State, or by any public instrumentality of a State that is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 by reason of section 3(a)(2) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(2)); and
(4)
Qualified scholarship funding bonds.
Any asset-backed security that meets the definition of a qualified scholarship funding bond, as set forth in section 150(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 150(d)(2)).
(5)
Pass-through resecuritizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by asset-backed securities:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Is structured so that it involves the issuance of only a single class of ABS interests; and
(iii) Provides for the pass-through of all principal and interest payments received on the underlying asset-backed securities (net of expenses of the issuing entity) to the holders of such class.
(6)
First-pay-class securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by first-pay classes of asset-backed securities collateralized by first-lien residential mortgages on properties located in any state:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Does not provide for any ABS interest issued in the securitization transaction to share in realized principal losses other than pro rata with all other ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction based on the current unpaid principal balance of such ABS interests at the time the loss is realized;
(iii) Is structured to reallocate prepayment risk;
(iv) Does not reallocate credit risk (other than as a consequence of reallocation of prepayment risk); and
(v) Does not include any inverse floater or similarly structured ABS interest.
(7)
Seasoned loans.
(i) Any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by seasoned loans that meet the following requirements:
(A) The loans have not been modified since origination; and
(B) None of the loans have been delinquent for 30 days or more.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, a
seasoned loan
means:
(A) With respect to asset-backed securities collateralized by residential mortgages, a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(
1
) A period of five years; or
(
2
) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 25 percent of the original principal balance.
(
3
) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, any residential mortgage loan that has been outstanding and performing for a period of at least seven years shall be deemed a seasoned loan.
(B) With respect to all other classes of asset-backed securities, a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(
1
) A period of at least two years; or
(
2
) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 33 percent of the original principal balance.
(8)
Certain public utility securitizations.
(i) Any securitization transaction where the asset-back securities issued in the transaction are secured by the intangible property right to collect charges for the recovery of specified costs and such other assets, if any, of an issuing entity that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by an investor owned utility company that is subject to the regulatory authority of a State public utility commission or other appropriate State agency.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph:
(A)
Specified cost
means any cost identified by a State legislature as appropriate for recovery through securitization pursuant to specified cost recovery legislation; and
(B)
Specified cost recovery legislation
means legislation enacted by a State that:
(
1
) Authorizes the investor owned utility company to apply for, and authorizes the public utility commission or other appropriate State agency to issue, a financing order determining the amount of specified costs the utility will be allowed to recover;
(
2
) Provides that pursuant to a financing order, the utility acquires an intangible property right to charge, collect, and receive amounts necessary to provide for the full recovery of the specified costs determined to be recoverable, and assures that the charges are non-bypassable and will be paid by customers within the utility's historic service territory who receive utility goods or services through the utility's transmission and distribution system, even if those customers elect to purchase these goods or services from a third party; and
(
3
) Guarantees that neither the State nor any of its agencies has the authority to rescind or amend the financing order, to revise the amount of specified costs, or in any way to reduce or impair the value of the intangible property right, except as may be contemplated by periodic adjustments authorized by the specified cost recovery legislation.
(c)
Exemption for securitizations of assets issued, insured or guaranteed by the United States.
This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are:
(1) Collateralized solely by obligations issued by the United States or an agency of the United States and servicing assets;
(2) Collateralized solely by assets that are fully insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States (other than those referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) and servicing assets; or
(3) Fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the United States or any agency of the United States;
(d)
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation securitizations.
This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction that is sponsored by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation acting as conservator or receiver under any provision of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(e)
Reduced requirement for certain student loan securitizations.
The 5 percent risk retention requirement set forth in § 244.4 shall be modified as follows:
(1) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by student loans made under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP loans”) that are guaranteed as to 100 percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 0 percent;
(2) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by FFELP loans that are guaranteed as to at least 98 percent but less than 100 percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 2 percent; and
(3) With respect to any other securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by FFELP loans, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 3 percent.
(f)
Community-focused lending securitizations.
(1) This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by community-focused residential mortgages and servicing assets.
(2) For any securitization transaction that includes both community-focused residential mortgages and residential mortgages that are not exempt from risk retention under this part, the percent of risk retention required under § 244.4(a) is reduced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the community-focused residential mortgages to the total unpaid principal balance of residential mortgages that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the
asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction (the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio); provided that:
(i) The community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the pool assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction; and
(ii) If the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent.
(g)
Exemptions for securitizations of certain three-to-four unit mortgage loans.
A sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in subpart B of this part with respect to any securitization transaction if:
(1)(i) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans and servicing assets; or
(ii) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential mortgages as defined in § 244.13, and servicing assets.
(2) The depositor with respect to the securitization provides the certifications set forth in § 244.13(b)(4) with respect to the process for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential mortgages, or servicing assets; and
(3) The sponsor of the securitization complies with the repurchase requirements in § 244.13(c) with respect to a loan if, after closing, it is determined that the loan does not meet all of the criteria to be either a qualified residential mortgage or a qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan, as appropriate.
(h)
Rule of construction.
Securitization transactions involving the issuance of asset-backed securities that are either issued, insured, or guaranteed by, or are collateralized by obligations issued by, or loans that are issued, insured, or guaranteed by, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or a Federal home loan bank shall not on that basis qualify for exemption under this part.
§ 244.20
Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
U.S. person
means:
(i) Any of the following:
(A) Any natural person resident in the United States;
(B) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other organization or entity organized or incorporated under the laws of any State or of the United States;
(C) Any estate of which any executor or administrator is a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(D) Any trust of which any trustee is a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(E) Any agency or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States;
(F) Any non-discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary for the benefit or account of a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(G) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States; and
(H) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other organization or entity if:
(
1
) Organized or incorporated under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction; and
(
2
) Formed by a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition) principally for the purpose of investing in securities not registered under the Act; and
(ii) “U.S. person(s)” does not include:
(A) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held for the benefit or account of a person not constituting a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this
section) by a dealer or other professional fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States;
(B) Any estate of which any professional fiduciary acting as executor or administrator is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) if:
(
1
) An executor or administrator of the estate who is not a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the assets of the estate; and
(
2
) The estate is governed by foreign law;
(C) Any trust of which any professional fiduciary acting as trustee is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section), if a trustee who is not a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the trust assets, and no beneficiary of the trust (and no settlor if the trust is revocable) is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section);
(D) An employee benefit plan established and administered in accordance with the law of a country other than the United States and customary practices and documentation of such country;
(E) Any agency or branch of a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) located outside the United States if:
(
1
) The agency or branch operates for valid business reasons; and
(
2
) The agency or branch is engaged in the business of insurance or banking and is subject to substantive insurance or banking regulation, respectively, in the jurisdiction where located;
(F) The International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the United Nations, and their agencies, affiliates and pension plans, and any other similar international organizations, their agencies, affiliates and pension plans.
(b)
In general.
This part shall not apply to a securitization transaction if all the following conditions are met:
(1) The securitization transaction is not required to be and is not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
);
(2) No more than 10 percent of the dollar value (or equivalent amount in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all classes of ABS interests in the securitization transaction are sold or transferred to U.S. persons or for the account or benefit of U.S. persons;
(3) Neither the sponsor of the securitization transaction nor the issuing entity is:
(i) Chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State;
(ii) An unincorporated branch or office (wherever located) of an entity chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(iii) An unincorporated branch or office located in the United States or any State of an entity that is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any State; and
(4) If the sponsor or issuing entity is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any State, no more than 25 percent (as determined based on unpaid principal balance) of the assets that collateralize the ABS interests sold in the securitization transaction were acquired by the sponsor or issuing entity, directly or indirectly, from:
(i) A majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor or issuing entity that is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(ii) An unincorporated branch or office of the sponsor or issuing entity that is located in the United States or any State.
(c)
Evasions prohibited.
In view of the objective of these rules and the policies underlying Section 15G of the Exchange Act, the safe harbor described in paragraph (b) of this section is not available with respect to any transaction or series of transactions that, although in technical compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, is part of a plan or scheme to evade the requirements of section 15G and this
part. In such cases, compliance with section 15G and this part is required.
§ 244.21
Additional exemptions.
(a)
Securitization transactions.
The federal agencies with rulewriting authority under section 15G(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b)) with respect to the type of assets involved may jointly provide a total or partial exemption of any securitization transaction as such agencies determine may be appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors.
(b)
Exceptions, exemptions, and adjustments.
The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, in consultation with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, may jointly adopt or issue exemptions, exceptions or adjustments to the requirements of this part, including exemptions, exceptions or adjustments for classes of institutions or assets in accordance with section 15G(e) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)).
§ 244.22
Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, and community-focused residential mortgage exemption.
(a) The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, in consultation with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, shall commence a review of the definition of qualified residential mortgage in § 244.13, a review of the community-focused residential mortgage exemption in § 244.19(f), and a review of the exemption for qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans in § 244.19(g):
(1) No later than four years after the effective date of the rule (as it relates to securitizers and originators of asset-backed securities collateralized by residential mortgages), five years following the completion of such initial review, and every five years thereafter; and
(2) At any time, upon the request of any Federal banking agency, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency or the Department of Housing and Urban Development, specifying the reason for such request, including as a result of any amendment to the definition of qualified mortgage or changes in the residential housing market.
(b) The Federal banking agencies, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall publish in the
Federal Register
notice of the commencement of a review and, in the case of a review commenced under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the reason an agency is requesting such review. After completion of any review, but no later than six months after the publication of the notice announcing the review, unless extended by the agencies, the agencies shall jointly publish a notice disclosing the determination of their review. If the agencies determine to amend the definition of qualified residential mortgage, the agencies shall complete any required rulemaking within 12 months of publication in the
Federal Register
of such notice disclosing the determination of their review, unless extended by the agencies.
Pt. 246

# PART 246—SUPERVISION AND REGULATION ASSESSMENTS OF FEES (REGULATION TT)
Sec.
246.1
Authority, purpose and scope.
246.2
Definitions.
246.3
Assessed companies.
246.4
Assessments.
246.5
Notice of assessment and appeal.
246.6
Collection of assessments; payment of interest.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 1526 (2010), Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1296 (2018), and section 11(s) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(s)).

# Source:
78 FR 52402, Aug. 23, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 246.1
Authority, purpose and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part (Regulation TT) is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) under section 318 of Title III of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 1423-32, 12 U.S.C. 5365 and 5366), section 401 of the Economic Growth,
Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (EGRRCPA) (Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1296), and section 11(s) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(s)).
(b)
Scope.
This part applies to:
(1) Any bank holding company having total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, as defined in this section;
(2) Any savings and loan holding company having total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more, as defined below; and
(3) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board, as defined § 246.2.
(c)
Purpose.
This part implements provisions of section 318 of the Dodd-Frank Act and section 401 of EGRRCPA that direct the Board to collect assessments, fees, or other charges from companies identified in subsection (b) that are equal to the total expenses the Board estimates are necessary or appropriate to carry out the supervisory and regulatory responsibilities of the Board with respect to these assessed companies and to adjust the amount charged to assessed companies with total consolidated assets between $100 billion and $250 billion to reflect any changes in supervisory and regulatory responsibilities resulting from EGRRCPA.
(d)(1)
Reservation of authority.
In exceptional circumstances, for the purpose of avoiding inequitable or inconsistent application of the rule, the Board may require an assessed company to pay a lesser amount of assessments than would otherwise be provided for under this part.
(2)
Use of comparable financial information.
The Board may use, at its discretion, any comparable financial information that the Board may require from a company in considering whether the company must pay to the Board an assessment and the amount of such assessment, pursuant to section 318 of the Dodd-Frank Act.
[78 FR 52492, Aug. 23, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 78953, Dec. 8, 2020]
§ 246.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Assessment period
means January 1 through December 31 of each calendar year.
(b)
Bank
means an insured depository institution as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
(c)
Bank holding company
is defined as in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841), and the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR part 225).
(d)
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, depository institution, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization.
(e)
Council
means the Financial Stability Oversight Council established by section 111 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5321).
(f)
Foreign bank holding company
means a foreign bank that is a bank holding company and any foreign company that owns such foreign bank.
(g)
Foreign savings and loan holding company
means a foreign bank or foreign company that is a savings and loan holding company.
(h)
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles, as used in the United States.
(i)
Grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding company
means a savings and loan holding company described in section 10(c)(9)(C) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (“HOLA”) (12 U.S.C. 1467a(c)(9)(C)).
(j)
Nonbank financial company supervised by the Board
means a company that the Council has determined pursuant to section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act shall be supervised by the Board and for which such determination is in effect.
(k)
Notice of assessment
means the notice in which the Board informs a company that it is an assessed company and states the assessed company's total assessable assets and the amount of its assessment.
(l)
Savings and loan holding company
is defined as in section 10 of HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1467a).
(m)
Savings association
is defined as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
(n)
Category I, II, and III firms
are assessed companies subject to Category I, II, or III standards as defined and determined under 12 CFR parts 238 and
252 as of December 31 of the assessment period.
(o)
Category IV firms
are assessed companies subject to Category IV standards as defined and determined under 12 CFR parts 238 and 252 as of December 31 of the assessment period.
(p)
“Other” firms
are assessed companies not subject to the Category I, II, III, or IV standards as defined and determined under 12 CFR parts 238 and 252 as of December 31 of the assessment period.
[78 FR 52492, Aug. 23, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 78953, Dec. 8, 2020]
§ 246.3
Assessed companies.
An assessed company is any company that:
(a) Is a top-tier company that, on December 31 of the assessment period:
(1) Is a bank holding company, other than a foreign bank holding company, with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as determined based on the average of the bank holding company's total consolidated assets reported for the assessment period on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-9C (“FR Y-9C”),
(2)(i) Is a savings and loan holding company, other than a foreign savings and loan holding company, with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as determined, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, based on the average of the savings and loan holding company's total consolidated assets as reported for the assessment period on the FR Y-9C or on the Quarterly Savings and Loan Holding Company Report (FR 2320), as applicable.
(ii) If a company does not calculate its total consolidated assets under GAAP for any regulatory purpose (including compliance with applicable securities laws), the company may request that the Board permit the company to file a quarterly estimate of its total consolidated assets. The Board may, in its discretion and subject to Board review and adjustment, permit the company to provide estimated total consolidated assets on a quarterly basis. For purposes of this part, the company's total consolidated assets will be the average of the estimated total consolidated assets provided for the assessment period.
(b) Is a top-tier foreign bank holding company on December 31 of the assessment period, with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as determined based on the average of the foreign bank holding company's total consolidated assets reported for the assessment period on the Federal Reserve's Form FR Y-7Q (“FR Y-7Q”), provided, however, that if any such company has filed only one FR Y-7Q during the assessment period, the Board shall use an average of the foreign bank holding company's total consolidated assets reported on that FR Y-7Q and on the FR Y-7Q for the corresponding period in the year prior to the assessment period.
(c) Is a top-tier foreign savings and loan holding company on December 31 of the assessment period, with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets, as determined based on the average of the foreign savings and loan holding company's total consolidated assets reported for the assessment period on the reporting forms applicable during the assessment period, provided, however, that if any such company has filed only one reporting form during the assessment period, the Board shall use an average of the foreign savings and loan holding company's total consolidated assets reported on that reporting form and on the reporting form for the corresponding period in the year prior to the assessment period, or
(d) Is a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board.
[85 FR 78953, Dec. 8, 2020]
§ 246.4
Assessments.
(a)
Assessment.
Each assessed company shall pay to the Board an assessment for any assessment period for which the Board determines the company to be an assessed company.
(b)(1)
Assessment formula.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the assessment will be calculated according to the Assessment Formula, as follows:
Column A
Column B
Column C
Column D
Base Amount ($50,000)
+
(Total Assessable Assets
×
Assessment Rate)
=
Assessment
(2) In any assessment period, if, at the time a company becomes a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, it also becomes an assessed company, as defined in § 246.3, the Board shall pro-rate that company's assessment for that assessment period based on the number of quarters in which such company is an assessed company. For a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board, for the assessment period that the company is designated for Board supervision, Board shall pro-rate that company's assessment for that assessment period based on the number of quarters the company has been a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board.
(c)
Assessment rate.
Assessment rate means, with regard to a given assessment period, the rate published by the Board on its Web site for the calculation of assessments for that period.
(1)(i) The assessment rate for Category IV and “other” firms will be calculated according to this formula:
Assessment rate = [(Net Assessment Basis
×
Category IV and “other” firms' share of total assessable assets of all assessed companies)
×
(1−S)]
Category IV and “other” firms' total assessable assets
(ii) The assessment rate for Category I, II, and III firms will be calculated according to this formula:
Assessment rate = [(Net Assessment Basis
×
Category I, II, and III firms' share of total assessable assets of all assessed companies)
+
(Net Assessment Basis
×
Category IV and “other” firms' share of total assessable assets
×
S)]
Category I, II, and III firms' total assessable assets
(2) For the calculation set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the number of assessed companies and the total assessable assets of all assessed companies will each be that of the relevant assessment period, provided, however, that for the assessment periods corresponding to 2012, 2013 and 2014, the Board shall use the number of assessed companies and the total assessable assets of the 2012 assessment period to calculate the assessment rate.
(d)
Assessment basis.
(1) For the 2012, 2013, and 2014 assessment periods, the assessment basis is the amount of total expenses the Board estimates is necessary or appropriate to carry out the supervisory and regulatory responsibilities of the Board with respect to assessed companies for 2012.
1
1
The categories of operating expenses that the Board believes are necessary or appropriate include but are not limited to (1) direct operating expenses for supervising and regulating assessed companies such as conducting examinations, conducting stress tests, communicating with the company regarding supervisory matters and laws and regulations,
etc.;
and (2) operating expenses for activities integral to carrying out supervisory and regulatory responsibilities such as training staff in the supervisory function, research and analysis functions including library subscription services, collecting and processing regulatory reports filed by supervised institutions,
etc.
All operating expenses include applicable support, overhead, and pension expenses.
(2) For the 2015 assessment period and for each assessment period thereafter, the assessment basis is the average of the amount of total expenses the Board estimates is necessary or appropriate to carry out the supervisory and regulatory responsibilities of the Board with respect to assessed companies for
that assessment period and the two prior assessment periods.
2
2
The categories of operating expenses that the Board believes are necessary or appropriate include but are not limited to (1) direct operating expenses for supervising and regulating assessed companies such as conducting examinations, conducting stress tests, communicating with the company regarding supervisory matters and laws and regulations,
etc.;
and (2) operating expenses for activities integral to carrying out supervisory and regulatory responsibilities such as training staff in the supervisory function, research and analysis functions including library subscription services, collecting and processing regulatory reports filed by supervised institutions,
etc.
All operating expenses include applicable support, overhead, and pension expenses.
(3) Net Assessment Basis is the assessment basis, as defined by paragraph (d)(2), net of the total $50,000 base amount charged to all assessed companies.
Net Assessment Basis
= assessment basis−(number of assessed companies × $50,000).
(4) The variable
S
represents the estimated share of total costs attributable to changes in supervisory and regulatory responsibilities resulting from EGRRCPA for Category IV and “other” firms.
S
= 0.1 (10 percent).
(e)
Total assessable assets.
Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, total assessable assets are calculated as follows:
(1)
Bank holding companies.
For any bank holding company, other than a foreign bank holding company, total assessable assets will be the average of the bank holding company's total consolidated assets as reported for the assessment period on the bank holding company's FR Y-9C or such other reports as determined by the Board as applicable to the bank holding company,
(2)
Foreign bank holding companies and foreign savings and loan holding companies
—(i)
In general.
For any foreign bank holding company or any foreign savings and loan holding company, with the exception of the 2012 and 2013 assessment periods, total assessable assets will be the average of the foreign bank holding company's or foreign savings and loan holding company's total combined assets of its U.S. operations, net of intercompany balances and transactions between U.S. domiciled affiliates, branches and agencies, as reported for the assessment period on the Part 1 of the FR Y-7Q or such other reports as determined by the Board as applicable to the foreign bank holding company or foreign savings and loan holding company,
(ii)
2012 and 2013 assessment periods.
For the 2012 and 2013 assessment periods, for any foreign bank holding company, total assessable assets will be the average of the sum of the line items set forth in this section reported quarterly, plus any line items set forth in this section reported annually for the assessment period on an applicable regulatory reporting form for the assessment period for all of the foreign bank holding company's majority-owned:
(A) Top-tier, U.S.-domiciled bank holding companies and savings and loan holding companies, calculated as:
(
1
) Total assets (line item 12) as reported on Schedule HC of the FR Y-9C and, as applicable;
(
2
) Total assets (line item 1, column B) as reported on FR 2320;
(B) Related branches and agencies of Foreign Banks in the United States, calculated as: total claims on nonrelated parties (line item 1.i from column A on Schedule RAL) plus net due from related institutions in foreign countries (line items 2.a, 2.b(1), 2.b(2), and 2.c from column A, minus line items 2.a, 2.b(1), 2.b(2) and 2.c from column B, part 1 on Schedule M), minus transactions with related nondepository majority-owned subsidiaries in the U.S. (line item 1 from column A, part 3 on Schedule M), as reported on the Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks (FFIEC 002);
(C) U.S.-domiciled nonbank subsidiaries, calculated as:
(
1
) For FR Y-7N filers: total assets (line item 10) as reported for each nonbank subsidiary reported on Schedule BS—Balance Sheet of the Financial Statements of U.S. Nonbank Subsidiaries Held by Foreign Banking Organizations (FR Y-7N); minus balances due from related institutions located in the United States, gross (line item 4.a), as reported on Schedule BS-M—Memoranda, and, as applicable;
(
2
) For FR Y-7NS (annual) filers: total assets (line item 2) as reported for each nonbank subsidiary reported on abbreviated financial statements (page 3) of the Abbreviated Financial Statements of U.S. Nonbank Subsidiaries Held by Foreign Banking Organizations (FR Y-7NS);
(D) Edge Act and agreement corporations that are not reflected in the assets of a U.S.-domiciled parent's regulatory reporting form submission, calculated as claims on nonrelated organizations (line item 9, “consolidated total” column on Schedule RC of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income for Edge and Agreement Corporations (FR 2886b)), plus claims on related organizations domiciled outside the United States (line items 2.a and 2.b, column A on Schedule RC-M), as reported on FR 2886b;
(E) Banks and savings associations that are not reflected in the assets of a U.S.-domiciled parent's regulatory reporting form submission, calculated as: total assets (line item 12) as reported on Schedule RC—Balance Sheet of the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income for a Bank with Domestic and Foreign Offices (FFIEC 031), or total assets (line item 12) as reported on Schedule RC—Balance Sheet of the Consolidated reports of Condition and Income for a Bank with Domestic Offices Only (FFIEC 041), as applicable; and
(F) Broker-dealers that are not reflected in the assets of a U.S.-domiciled parent's regulatory reporting form submission, calculated as: total assets as reported on statement of financial condition of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Form X-17A-5 (FOCUS REPORT), Part II line item 16, Part IIa, line item 12, or Part II CSE, line item 18, as applicable.
(3)(i)
Savings and loan holding companies.
For any savings and loan holding company, other than a foreign savings and loan holding company, total assessable assets will be, except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, the average of the savings and loan holding company's total consolidated assets as reported for the assessment period on the regulatory reports on the savings and loan holding company's Form FR Y-9C, column B of the Quarterly Savings and Loan Holding Company Report (FR 2320), or other reports as determined by the Board as applicable to the savings and loan holding company. If the savings and loan holding company is a grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding company, total assessable assets will only include the assets associated with its savings association subsidiary and its other financial activities.
(ii) If a company does not calculate its total consolidated assets under GAAP for any regulatory purpose (including compliance with applicable securities laws), the company may request that the Board permit the company to file a quarterly estimate of its total consolidated assets. The Board may, in its discretion and subject to Board review and adjustment, permit the company to provide estimated total consolidated assets on a quarterly basis. The company's total assessable assets will be the average of the estimated total consolidated assets provided for the assessment period.
(4)
Nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board.
For a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board, if the company is a U.S. company, this amount will be the average of the nonbank financial company's total consolidated assets as reported for the assessment period on such regulatory or other reports as are applicable to the nonbank financial company determined by the Board; if the company is a foreign company, this amount will be the average of the nonbank financial company's total combined assets of U.S. operations, net of intercompany balances and transactions between U.S. domiciled affiliates, branches and agencies, as reported for the assessment period on such regulatory or other reports as determined by the Board as applicable to the nonbank financial company.
[78 FR 52492, Aug. 23, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 78954, Dec. 8, 2020]
§ 246.5
Notice of assessment and appeal.
(a)
Notice of Assessment.
The Board shall issue a notice of assessment to each assessed company no later than June 30 of each calendar year following
the assessment period, provided, however, that for the 2012 assessment period, the Board shall issue a notice of assessment as soon as reasonably practical after publication of the final rule in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Appeal period.
(1) Each assessed company will have thirty calendar days from June 30, or, for the 2012 assessment period, thirty calendar days from the Board's issuance of a notice of assessment for that assessment period, to submit a written statement to appeal the Board's determination:
(i) That the company is an assessed company; or
(ii) Of the company's total assessable assets.
(2) The Board will respond with the results of its consideration to an assessed company that has submitted a written appeal within 15 calendar days from the end of the appeal period in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
§ 246.6
Collection of assessments; payment of interest.
(a)
Collection date.
Each assessed company shall remit to the Federal Reserve the amount of its assessment using the Fedwire Funds Service by September 15 of the calendar year following the assessment period, or, for the 2012 assessment period, by a date specified in the notice of assessment for that assessment period.
(b)
Payment of interest.
(1) If the Board does not receive the total amount of an assessed company's assessment by the collection date for any reason not attributable to the Board, the assessment will be delinquent and the assessed company shall pay to the Board interest on any sum owed to the Board according to this rule (delinquent payments).
(2) Interest on delinquent payments will be assessed beginning on the first calendar day after the collection date, and on each calendar day thereafter up to and including the day payment is received. Interest will be simple interest, calculated for each day payment is delinquent by multiplying the daily equivalent of the applicable interest rate by the amount delinquent. The rate of interest will be the United States Treasury Department's current value of funds rate (the “CVFR percentage”); issued under the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual and published quarterly in the
Federal Register.
Each delinquent payment will be charged interest based on the CVFR percentage applicable to the quarter in which all or part of the assessment goes unpaid.
Pt. 248

# PART 248—PROPRIETARY TRADING AND CERTAIN INTERESTS IN AND RELATIONSHIPS WITH COVERED FUNDS (REGULATION VV)

# Subpart A—Authority and Definitions
Sec.
248.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
248.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Proprietary Trading
248.3
Prohibition on proprietary trading.
248.4
Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
248.5
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
248.6
Other permitted proprietary trading activities.
248.7
Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
248.8-248.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Covered Fund Activities and Investments
248.10
Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and having certain relationships with a covered fund.
248.11
Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making with respect to a covered fund.
248.12
Permitted investment in a covered fund.
248.13
Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.
248.14
Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
248.15
Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities.
248.16
Ownership of interests in and sponsorship of issuers of certain collateralized debt obligations backed by trust-preferred securities.
248.17-248.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Compliance Program Requirement; Violations
248.20
Program for compliance; reporting.
248.21
Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
Appendix A to Part 248—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading Activities

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1851, 12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.,
12 U.S.C. 1818, 12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.,
and 12 U.S.C. 3103
et seq.

# Source:
79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 248 appear at 79 FR 5804, Jan. 31, 2014.

# Subpart A—Authority and Definitions
§ 248.1
Authority, purpose, scope, and relationship to other authorities.
(a)
Authority.
This part (Regulation VV) is issued by the Board under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1851), as well as under the Federal Reserve Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 221
et seq.
); section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1818); the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
); and the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
).
(b)
Purpose.
Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act establishes prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and on investments in or relationships with covered funds by certain banking entities, including state member banks, bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies, other companies that control an insured depository institution, foreign banking organizations, and certain subsidiaries thereof. This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act by defining terms used in the statute and related terms, establishing prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and on investments in or relationships with covered funds, and explaining the statute's requirements.
(c)
Scope.
This part implements section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act with respect to banking entities for which the Board is authorized to issue regulations under section 13(b)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1851(b)(2)) and take actions under section 13(e) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1851(e)). These include any state bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, any company that controls an insured depository institution (including a bank holding company and savings and loan holding company), any company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act (12 U.S.C. 3106), and any subsidiary of the foregoing other than a subsidiary for which the OCC, FDIC, CFTC, or SEC is the primary financial regulatory agency (as defined in section 2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5301(12)), but do not include such entities to the extent they are not within the definition of banking entity in § 248.2(c).
(d)
Relationship to other authorities.
Except as otherwise provided under section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the prohibitions and restrictions under section 13 of BHC Act and this part shall apply to the activities of a banking entity, even if such activities are authorized for the banking entity under other applicable provisions of law.
(e)
Preservation of authority.
Nothing in this part limits in any way the authority of the Board to impose on a banking entity identified in paragraph (c) of this section additional requirements or restrictions with respect to any activity, investment, or relationship covered under section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part, or additional penalties for violation of this part provided under any other applicable provision of law.
[79 FR 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35020, July 22, 2019]
§ 248.2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified, for purposes of this part:
(a)
Affiliate
has the same meaning as in section 2(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(k)).
(b)
Bank holding company
has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841).
(c)
Banking entity.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section,
banking entity
means:
(i) Any insured depository institution;
(ii) Any company that controls an insured depository institution;
(iii) Any company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(iv) Any affiliate or subsidiary of any entity described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(2) Banking entity does not include:
(i) A covered fund that is not itself a banking entity under paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section;
(ii) A portfolio company held under the authority contained in section 4(k)(4)(H) or (I) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)(4)(H), (I)), or any portfolio concern, as defined under 13 CFR 107.50, that is controlled by a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), so long as the portfolio company or portfolio concern is not itself a banking entity under paragraph (c)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section; or
(iii) The FDIC acting in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(d)
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(e)
CFTC
means the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
(f)
Dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(5) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
(g)
Depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
(h)
Derivative.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section,
derivative
means:
(i) Any swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68));
(ii) Any purchase or sale of a commodity, that is not an excluded commodity, for deferred shipment or delivery that is intended to be physically settled;
(iii) Any foreign exchange forward (as that term is defined in section 1a(24) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)) or foreign exchange swap (as that term is defined in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25));
(iv) Any agreement, contract, or transaction in foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(C)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(C)(i));
(v) Any agreement, contract, or transaction in a commodity other than foreign currency described in section 2(c)(2)(D)(i) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(D)(i)); and
(vi) Any transaction authorized under section 19 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 23(a) or (b));
(2) A derivative does not include:
(i) Any consumer, commercial, or other agreement, contract, or transaction that the CFTC and SEC have further defined by joint regulation, interpretation, or other action as not within the definition of swap, as that term is defined in section 1a(47) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)), or security-based swap, as that term is defined in section 3(a)(68) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(68)); or
(ii) Any identified banking product, as defined in section 402(b) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(b)), that is subject to section 403(a) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 27a(a)).
(i)
Employee
includes a member of the immediate family of the employee.
(j)
Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
(k)
Excluded commodity
has the same meaning as in section 1a(19) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(19)).
(l)
FDIC
means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(m)
Federal banking agencies
means the Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the FDIC.
(n)
Foreign banking organization
has the same meaning as in § 211.21(o) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(o)), but does not include a foreign bank, as defined in section 1(b)(7) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101(7)), that is organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American
Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(o)
Foreign insurance regulator
means the insurance commissioner, or a similar official or agency, of any country other than the United States that is engaged in the supervision of insurance companies under foreign insurance law.
(p)
General account
means all of the assets of an insurance company except those allocated to one or more separate accounts.
(q)
Insurance company
means a company that is organized as an insurance company, primarily and predominantly engaged in writing insurance or reinsuring risks underwritten by insurance companies, subject to supervision as such by a state insurance regulator or a foreign insurance regulator, and not operated for the purpose of evading the provisions of section 13 of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1851).
(r)
Insured depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)), but does not include:
(1) An insured depository institution that is described in section 2(c)(2)(D) of the BHC Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(c)(2)(D)); or
(2) An insured depository institution if it has, and if every company that controls it has, total consolidated assets of $10 billion or less and total trading assets and trading liabilities, on a consolidated basis, that are 5 percent or less of total consolidated assets.
(s)
Limited trading assets and liabilities
means with respect to a banking entity that:
(1)(i) The banking entity has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 248.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) the average gross sum of which over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four previous calendar quarters, is less than $1 billion; and
(ii) The Board has not determined pursuant to § 248.20(g) or (h) of this part that the banking entity should not be treated as having limited trading assets and liabilities.
(2) With respect to a banking entity other than a banking entity described in paragraph (s)(3) of this section, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (s) means trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 248.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) on a worldwide consolidated basis.
(3)(i) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization or a subsidiary of a foreign banking organization, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (s) means the trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 248.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) of the combined U.S. operations of the top-tier foreign banking organization (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, and agencies of the foreign banking organization operating, located, or organized in the United States).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (s)(3)(i) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. For purposes of paragraph (s)(3)(i) of this section, all foreign operations of a U.S. agency, branch, or subsidiary of a foreign banking organization are considered to be located in the United States, including branches outside the United States that are managed or controlled by a U.S. branch or agency of the foreign banking organization, for purposes of calculating the banking entity's U.S. trading assets and liabilities.
(t)
Loan
means any loan, lease, extension of credit, or secured or unsecured receivable that is not a security or derivative.
(u)
Moderate trading assets and liabilities
means, with respect to a banking entity, that the banking entity does not have significant trading assets and liabilities or limited trading assets and liabilities.
(v)
Primary financial regulatory agency
has the same meaning as in section
2(12) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301(12)).
(w)
Purchase
includes any contract to buy, purchase, or otherwise acquire. For security futures products, purchase includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, purchase includes any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, purchase includes the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(x)
Qualifying foreign banking organization
means a foreign banking organization that qualifies as such under § 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c), or (e)).
(y)
SEC
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(z)
Sale
and
sell
each include any contract to sell or otherwise dispose of. For security futures products, such terms include any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a commodity future, such terms include any contract, agreement, or transaction for future delivery. With respect to a derivative, such terms include the execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a derivative, as the context may require.
(aa)
Security
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(10) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(10)).
(bb)
Security-based swap dealer
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(71) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(71)).
(cc)
Security future
has the meaning specified in section 3(a)(55) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(55)).
(dd)
Separate account
means an account established and maintained by an insurance company in connection with one or more insurance contracts to hold assets that are legally segregated from the insurance company's other assets, under which income, gains, and losses, whether or not realized, from assets allocated to such account, are, in accordance with the applicable contract, credited to or charged against such account without regard to other income, gains, or losses of the insurance company.
(ee)
Significant trading assets and liabilities
means with respect to a banking entity that:
(1)(i) The banking entity has, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, trading assets and liabilities the average gross sum of which over the previous consecutive four quarters, as measured as of the last day of each of the four previous calendar quarters, equals or exceeds $20 billion; or
(ii) The Board has determined pursuant to § 248.20(h) of this part that the banking entity should be treated as having significant trading assets and liabilities.
(2) With respect to a banking entity, other than a banking entity described in paragraph (ee)(3) of this section, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (ee) means trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 248.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) on a worldwide consolidated basis.
(3)(i) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization or a subsidiary of a foreign banking organization, trading assets and liabilities for purposes of this paragraph (ee) means the trading assets and liabilities (excluding trading assets and liabilities attributable to trading activities permitted pursuant to § 248.6(a)(1) and (2) of subpart B) of the combined U.S. operations of the top-tier foreign banking organization (including all subsidiaries, affiliates, branches, and agencies of the foreign banking organization operating, located, or organized in the United States as well as branches outside the United States that are managed or controlled by a branch or agency of the foreign banking entity operating, located or organized in the United States).
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (ee)(3)(i) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a banking entity is located in the United States;
however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary. For purposes of paragraph (ee)(3)(i) of this section, all foreign operations of a U.S. agency, branch, or subsidiary of a foreign banking organization are considered to be located in the United States for purposes of calculating the banking entity's U.S. trading assets and liabilities.
(ff)
State
means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
(gg)
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in section 2(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(d)).
(hh)
State insurance regulator
means the insurance commissioner, or a similar official or agency, of a State that is engaged in the supervision of insurance companies under State insurance law.
(ii)
Swap dealer
has the same meaning as in section 1(a)(49) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(49)).
[84 FR 62129, Nov. 14, 2019]

# Subpart B—Proprietary Trading
§ 248.3
Prohibition on proprietary trading.
(a)
Prohibition.
Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking entity may not engage in proprietary trading.
Proprietary trading
means engaging as principal for the trading account of the banking entity in any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments.
(b)
Definition of trading account
—(1)
Trading account.
Trading account means:
(i) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments principally for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits, or hedging one or more of the positions resulting from the purchases or sales of financial instruments described in this paragraph;
(ii) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments that are both market risk capital rule covered positions and trading positions (or hedges of other market risk capital rule covered positions), if the banking entity, or any affiliate with which the banking entity is consolidated for regulatory reporting purposes, calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule; or
(iii) Any account that is used by a banking entity to purchase or sell one or more financial instruments, if the banking entity:
(A) Is licensed or registered, or is required to be licensed or registered, to engage in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities that require the banking entity to be licensed or registered as such; or
(B) Is engaged in the business of a dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer outside of the United States, to the extent the instrument is purchased or sold in connection with the activities of such business.
(2)
Trading account application for certain banking entities.
(i) A banking entity that is subject to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account is not subject to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii) A banking entity that does not calculate risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule and is not a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes of a banking entity that calculates risk based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule may elect to apply paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account as if it were subject to that paragraph. A banking entity that elects under this subsection to apply paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section in determining the scope of its trading account as if it were subject to that paragraph is not required to apply paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(3)
Consistency of account election for certain banking entities.
(i) Any election or change to an election under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must
apply to the electing banking entity and all of its wholly owned subsidiaries. The primary financial regulatory agency of a banking entity that is affiliated with but is not a wholly owned subsidiary of such electing banking entity may require that the banking entity be subject to this uniform application requirement if the primary financial regulatory agency determines that it is necessary to prevent evasion of the requirements of this part after notice and opportunity for response as provided in subpart D of this part.
(ii) A banking entity that does not elect under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section to be subject to the trading account definition in (b)(1)(ii) may continue to apply the trading account definition in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for one year from the date on which it becomes, or becomes a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes with, a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule.
(4)
Rebuttable presumption for certain purchases and sales.
The purchase (or sale) of a financial instrument by a banking entity shall be presumed not to be for the trading account of the banking entity under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section if the banking entity holds the financial instrument for sixty days or longer and does not transfer substantially all of the risk of the financial instrument within sixty days of the purchase (or sale).
(c)
Financial instrument.
(1)
Financial instrument
means:
(i) A security, including an option on a security;
(ii) A derivative, including an option on a derivative; or
(iii) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery.
(2) A financial instrument does not include:
(i) A loan;
(ii) A commodity that is not:
(A) An excluded commodity (other than foreign exchange or currency);
(B) A derivative;
(C) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or
(D) An option on a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery; or
(iii) Foreign exchange or currency.
(d)
Proprietary trading.
Proprietary trading does not include:
(1) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that arises under a repurchase or reverse repurchase agreement pursuant to which the banking entity has simultaneously agreed, in writing, to both purchase and sell a stated asset, at stated prices, and on stated dates or on demand with the same counterparty;
(2) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that arises under a transaction in which the banking entity lends or borrows a security temporarily to or from another party pursuant to a written securities lending agreement under which the lender retains the economic interests of an owner of such security, and has the right to terminate the transaction and to recall the loaned security on terms agreed by the parties;
(3) Any purchase or sale of a security, foreign exchange forward (as that term is defined in section 1a(24) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(24)), foreign exchange swap (as that term is defined in section 1a(25) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(25)), or cross-currency swap by a banking entity for the purpose of liquidity management in accordance with a documented liquidity management plan of the banking entity that:
(i) Specifically contemplates and authorizes the particular financial instruments to be used for liquidity management purposes, the amount, types, and risks of these financial instruments that are consistent with liquidity management, and the liquidity circumstances in which the particular financial instruments may or must be used;
(ii) Requires that any purchase or sale of financial instruments contemplated and authorized by the plan be principally for the purpose of managing the liquidity of the banking entity, and not for the purpose of short-term resale, benefitting from actual or expected short-term price movements, realizing short-term arbitrage profits,
or hedging a position taken for such short-term purposes;
(iii) Requires that any financial instruments purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes be highly liquid and limited to financial instruments the market, credit, and other risks of which the banking entity does not reasonably expect to give rise to appreciable profits or losses as a result of short-term price movements;
(iv) Limits any financial instruments purchased or sold for liquidity management purposes, together with any other financial instruments purchased or sold for such purposes, to an amount that is consistent with the banking entity's near-term funding needs, including deviations from normal operations of the banking entity or any affiliate thereof, as estimated and documented pursuant to methods specified in the plan;
(v) Includes written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis, and independent testing to ensure that the purchase and sale of financial instruments that are not permitted under § 248.6(a) or (b) of this subpart are for the purpose of liquidity management and in accordance with the liquidity management plan described in this paragraph (d)(3); and
(vi) Is consistent with the Board's supervisory requirements regarding liquidity management;
(4) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that is a derivatives clearing organization or a clearing agency in connection with clearing financial instruments;
(5) Any excluded clearing activities by a banking entity that is a member of a clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a designated financial market utility;
(6) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity, so long as:
(i) The purchase (or sale) satisfies an existing delivery obligation of the banking entity or its customers, including to prevent or close out a failure to deliver, in connection with delivery, clearing, or settlement activity; or
(ii) The purchase (or sale) satisfies an obligation of the banking entity in connection with a judicial, administrative, self-regulatory organization, or arbitration proceeding;
(7) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity that is acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian;
(8) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity that is established and administered in accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the purchase or sale is made directly or indirectly by the banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were employees of the banking entity;
(9) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments by a banking entity in the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, provided that the banking entity divests the financial instrument as soon as practicable, and in no event may the banking entity retain such instrument for longer than such period permitted by the Board;
(10) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments that was made in error by a banking entity in the course of conducting a permitted or excluded activity or is a subsequent transaction to correct such an error;
(11) Contemporaneously entering into a customer-driven swap or customer-driven security-based swap and a matched swap or security-based swap if:
(i) The banking entity retains no more than minimal price risk; and
(ii) The banking entity is not a registered dealer, swap dealer, or security-based swap dealer;
(12) Any purchase or sale of one or more financial instruments that the banking entity uses to hedge mortgage servicing rights or mortgage servicing assets in accordance with a documented hedging strategy; or
(13) Any purchase or sale of a financial instrument that does not meet the definition of trading asset or trading liability under the applicable reporting form for a banking entity as of January 1, 2020.
(e)
Definition of other terms related to proprietary trading.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Anonymous
means that each party to a purchase or sale is unaware of the identity of the other party(ies) to the purchase or sale.
(2)
Clearing agency
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(23) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)).
(3)
Commodity
has the same meaning as in section 1a(9) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(9)), except that a commodity does not include any security;
(4)
Contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery
means a contract of sale (as that term is defined in section 1a(13) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(13)) for future delivery (as that term is defined in section 1a(27) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(27))).
(5)
Cross-currency swap
means a swap in which one party exchanges with another party principal and interest rate payments in one currency for principal and interest rate payments in another currency, and the exchange of principal occurs on the date the swap is entered into, with a reversal of the exchange of principal at a later date that is agreed upon when the swap is entered into.
(6)
Derivatives clearing organization
means:
(i) A derivatives clearing organization registered under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1);
(ii) A derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is exempt from the registration requirements under section 5b of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7a-1); or
(iii) A foreign derivatives clearing organization that, pursuant to CFTC regulation, is permitted to clear for a foreign board of trade that is registered with the CFTC.
(7)
Exchange,
unless the context otherwise requires, means any designated contract market, swap execution facility, or foreign board of trade registered with the CFTC, or, for purposes of securities or security-based swaps, an exchange, as defined under section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1)), or security-based swap execution facility, as defined under section 3(a)(77) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(77)).
(8)
Excluded clearing activities
means:
(i) With respect to customer transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, a clearing agency, or a designated financial market utility, any purchase or sale necessary to correct trading errors made by or on behalf of a customer provided that such purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC regulations, and the rules or procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions cleared on a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency, or, for transactions cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives clearing organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated financial market utility;
(ii) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of a default or threatened imminent default of a customer provided that such purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with, for transactions cleared on a derivatives clearing organization, the Commodity Exchange Act, CFTC regulations, and the rules or procedures of the derivatives clearing organization, or, for transactions cleared on a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the clearing agency, or, for transactions cleared on a designated financial market utility that is neither a derivatives clearing organization nor a clearing agency, the rules or procedures of the designated financial market utility;
(iii) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of a default or threatened imminent default of a member of a clearing agency, a member of a derivatives clearing organization, or a member of a designated financial market utility;
(iv) Any purchase or sale in connection with and related to the management of the default or threatened default of a clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization, or a designated financial market utility; and
(v) Any purchase or sale that is required by the rules or procedures of a clearing agency, a derivatives clearing organization, or a designated financial market utility to mitigate the risk to the clearing agency, derivatives clearing organization, or designated financial market utility that would result from the clearing by a member of security-based swaps that reference the member or an affiliate of the member.
(9)
Designated financial market utility
has the same meaning as in section 803(4) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5462(4)).
(10)
Issuer
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(4) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77b(a)(4)).
(11)
Market risk capital rule covered position and trading position
means a financial instrument that meets the criteria to be a covered position and a trading position, as those terms are respectively defined, without regard to whether the financial instrument is reported as a covered position or trading position on any applicable regulatory reporting forms:
(i) In the case of a banking entity that is a bank holding company, savings and loan holding company, or insured depository institution, under the market risk capital rule that is applicable to the banking entity; and
(ii) In the case of a banking entity that is affiliated with a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, other than a banking entity to which a market risk capital rule is applicable, under the market risk capital rule that is applicable to the affiliated bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
(12)
Market risk capital rule
means the market risk capital rule that is contained in 12 CFR part 3 with respect to a banking entity for which the OCC is the primary financial regulatory agency, 12 CFR part 217 with respect to a banking entity for which the Board is the primary financial regulatory agency, or 12 CFR part 324 with respect to a banking entity for which the FDIC is the primary financial regulatory agency.
(13)
Municipal security
means a security that is a direct obligation of or issued by, or an obligation guaranteed as to principal or interest by, a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of a State or any political subdivision thereof, or any municipal corporate instrumentality of one or more States or political subdivisions thereof.
(14)
Trading desk
means a unit of organization of a banking entity that purchases or sells financial instruments for the trading account of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof that is:
(i)(A) Structured by the banking entity to implement a well-defined business strategy;
(B) Organized to ensure appropriate setting, monitoring, and management review of the desk's trading and hedging limits, current and potential future loss exposures, and strategies; and
(C) Characterized by a clearly defined unit that:
(
1
) Engages in coordinated trading activity with a unified approach to its key elements;
(
2
) Operates subject to a common and calibrated set of risk metrics, risk levels, and joint trading limits;
(
3
) Submits compliance reports and other information as a unit for monitoring by management; and
(
4
) Books its trades together; or
(ii) For a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule, or a consolidated affiliate for regulatory reporting purposes of a banking entity that calculates risk-based capital ratios under the market risk capital rule, established by the banking entity or its affiliate for purposes of market risk capital calculations under the market risk capital rule.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62131, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 248.4
Permitted underwriting and market making-related activities.
(a)
Underwriting activities
—(1)
Permitted underwriting activities.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity's underwriting activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (a).
(2)
Requirements.
The underwriting activities of a banking entity are permitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity is acting as an underwriter for a distribution of securities and the trading desk's underwriting position is related to such distribution;
(ii)(A) The amount and type of the securities in the trading desk's underwriting position are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities; and
(B) Reasonable efforts are made to sell or otherwise reduce the underwriting position within a reasonable period, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities;
(iii) In the case of a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, including reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and addressing:
(A) The products, instruments or exposures each trading desk may purchase, sell, or manage as part of its underwriting activities;
(B) Limits for each trading desk, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section;
(C) Written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval; and
(D) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading desk's compliance with its limits.
(iv) A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(B) and (C) of this section by complying with the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section;
(v) The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities described in this paragraph (a) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading; and
(vi) The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in the activity described in this paragraph (a) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)
Definition of distribution.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), a distribution of securities means:
(i) An offering of securities, whether or not subject to registration under the Securities Act of 1933, that is distinguished from ordinary trading transactions by the presence of special selling efforts and selling methods; or
(ii) An offering of securities made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933.
(4)
Definition of underwriter.
For purposes of this paragraph (a),
underwriter
means:
(i) A person who has agreed with an issuer or selling security holder to:
(A) Purchase securities from the issuer or selling security holder for distribution;
(B) Engage in a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder; or
(C) Manage a distribution of securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder; or
(ii) A person who has agreed to participate or is participating in a distribution of such securities for or on behalf of the issuer or selling security holder.
(5)
Definition of selling security holder.
For purposes of this paragraph (a),
selling security holder
means any person, other than an issuer, on whose behalf a distribution is made.
(6)
Definition of underwriting position.
For purposes of this section,
underwriting position
means the long or short positions in one or more securities held by a banking entity or its affiliate, and managed by a particular trading desk, in connection with a particular distribution of securities for which such banking entity or affiliate is acting as an underwriter.
(7)
Definition of client, customer, and counterparty.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), the terms
client, customer, and counterparty,
on a collective or individual basis, refer to market participants that may transact with the banking entity in connection with a particular distribution for which the banking entity is acting as underwriter.
(b)
Market making-related activities
—(1)
Permitted market making-related activities.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to a banking entity's market making-related activities conducted in accordance with this paragraph (b).
(2)
Requirements.
The market making-related activities of a banking entity are permitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section only if:
(i) The trading desk that establishes and manages the financial exposure, routinely stands ready to purchase and sell one or more types of financial instruments related to its financial exposure, and is willing and available to quote, purchase and sell, or otherwise enter into long and short positions in those types of financial instruments for its own account, in commercially reasonable amounts and throughout market cycles on a basis appropriate for the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments;
(ii) The trading desk's market-making related activities are designed not to exceed, on an ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments;
(iii) In the case of a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (b), including reasonably designed written policies and procedures, internal controls, analysis and independent testing identifying and addressing:
(A) The financial instruments each trading desk stands ready to purchase and sell in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) The actions the trading desk will take to demonstrably reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate promptly the risks of its financial exposure consistent with the limits required under paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(C) of this section; the products, instruments, and exposures each trading desk may use for risk management purposes; the techniques and strategies each trading desk may use to manage the risks of its market making-related activities and positions; and the process, strategies, and personnel responsible for ensuring that the actions taken by the trading desk to mitigate these risks are and continue to be effective;
(C) Limits for each trading desk, in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section;
(D) Written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that would exceed a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval; and
(E) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring and analysis of each trading desk's compliance with its limits.
(iv) A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(C) and (D) of this section by complying with the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(v) The compensation arrangements of persons performing the activities described in this paragraph (b) are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading; and
(vi) The banking entity is licensed or registered to engage in activity described in this paragraph (b) in accordance with applicable law.
(3)
Definition of client, customer, and counterparty.
For purposes of this paragraph (b), the terms
client, customer, and counterparty,
on a collective or individual basis refer to market participants that make use of the banking entity's market making-related services
by obtaining such services, responding to quotations, or entering into a continuing relationship with respect to such services, provided that:
(i) A trading desk or other organizational unit of another banking entity is not a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk if that other entity has trading assets and liabilities of $50 billion or more as measured in accordance with the methodology described in § 248.2(ee) of this part, unless:
(A) The trading desk documents how and why a particular trading desk or other organizational unit of the entity should be treated as a client, customer, or counterparty of the trading desk for purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(B) The purchase or sale by the trading desk is conducted anonymously on an exchange or similar trading facility that permits trading on behalf of a broad range of market participants.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4)
Definition of financial exposure.
For purposes of this section,
financial exposure
means the aggregate risks of one or more financial instruments and any associated loans, commodities, or foreign exchange or currency, held by a banking entity or its affiliate and managed by a particular trading desk as part of the trading desk's market making-related activities.
(5)
Definition of market-maker positions.
For the purposes of this section,
market-maker positions
means all of the positions in the financial instruments for which the trading desk stands ready to make a market in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, that are managed by the trading desk, including the trading desk's open positions or exposures arising from open transactions.
(c)
Rebuttable presumption of compliance
—(1)
Internal limits.
(i) A banking entity shall be presumed to meet the requirement in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section with respect to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument if the banking entity has established and implements, maintains, and enforces the internal limits for the relevant trading desk as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii)(A) With respect to underwriting activities conducted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be available to each trading desk that establishes, implements, maintains, and enforces internal limits that should take into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of securities and are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk's underwriting activities, on the:
(
1
) Amount, types, and risk of its underwriting position;
(
2
) Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its underwriting position; and
(
3
) Period of time a security may be held.
(B) With respect to market making-related activities conducted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall be available to each trading desk that establishes, implements, maintains, and enforces internal limits that should take into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments and are designed not to exceed the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties, based on the nature and amount of the trading desk's market-making related activities, that address the:
(
1
) Amount, types, and risks of its market-maker positions;
(
2
) Amount, types, and risks of the products, instruments, and exposures the trading desk may use for risk management purposes;
(
3
) Level of exposures to relevant risk factors arising from its financial exposure; and
(
4
) Period of time a financial instrument may be held.
(2)
Supervisory review and oversight.
The limits described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be subject to supervisory review and oversight by the Board on an ongoing basis.
(3)
Limit breaches and increases.
(i) With respect to any limit set pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this
section, a banking entity shall maintain and make available to the Board upon request records regarding:
(A) Any limit that is exceeded; and
(B) Any temporary or permanent increase to any limit(s), in each case in the form and manner as directed by the Board.
(ii) In the event of a breach or increase of any limit set pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, the presumption described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall continue to be available only if the banking entity:
(A) Takes action as promptly as possible after a breach to bring the trading desk into compliance; and
(B) Follows established written authorization procedures, including escalation procedures that require review and approval of any trade that exceeds a trading desk's limit(s), demonstrable analysis of the basis for any temporary or permanent increase to a trading desk's limit(s), and independent review of such demonstrable analysis and approval.
(4)
Rebutting the presumption.
The presumption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section may be rebutted by the Board if the Board determines, taking into account the liquidity, maturity, and depth of the market for the relevant types of financial instruments and based on all relevant facts and circumstances, that a trading desk is engaging in activity that is not based on the reasonably expected near term demands of clients, customers, or counterparties. The Board's rebuttal of the presumption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in subpart D of this part.
[84 FR 62132, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 248.5
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
(a)
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to the risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity in connection with and related to individual or aggregated positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity and designed to reduce the specific risks to the banking entity in connection with and related to such positions, contracts, or other holdings.
(b)
Requirements.
(1) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities are permitted under paragraph (a) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and enforces an internal compliance program required by subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of this section, including:
(A) Reasonably designed written policies and procedures regarding the positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging, including documentation indicating what positions, contracts or other holdings a particular trading desk may use in its risk-mitigating hedging activities, as well as position and aging limits with respect to such positions, contracts or other holdings;
(B) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(C) The conduct of analysis and independent testing designed to ensure that the positions, techniques and strategies that may be used for hedging may reasonably be expected to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risk(s) being hedged;
(ii) The risk-mitigating hedging activity:
(A) Is conducted in accordance with the written policies, procedures, and internal controls required under this section;
(B) At the inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any adjustments to the hedging activity, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and related to identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the identified underlying and hedging
positions, contracts or other holdings and the risks and liquidity thereof;
(C) Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this section;
(D) Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the banking entity that:
(
1
) Is consistent with the written hedging policies and procedures required under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section;
(
2
) Is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks that develop over time from the risk-mitigating hedging activities undertaken under this section and the underlying positions, contracts, and other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the underlying and hedging positions, contracts and other holdings of the banking entity and the risks and liquidity thereof; and
(
3
) Requires ongoing recalibration of the hedging activity by the banking entity to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section and is not prohibited proprietary trading; and
(iii) The compensation arrangements of persons performing risk-mitigating hedging activities are designed not to reward or incentivize prohibited proprietary trading.
(2) The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity that does not have significant trading assets and liabilities are permitted under paragraph (a) of this section only if the risk-mitigating hedging activity:
(i) At the inception of the hedging activity, including, without limitation, any adjustments to the hedging activity, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks, including market risk, counterparty or other credit risk, currency or foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, basis risk, or similar risks, arising in connection with and related to identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity, based upon the facts and circumstances of the identified underlying and hedging positions, contracts or other holdings and the risks and liquidity thereof; and
(ii) Is subject, as appropriate, to ongoing recalibration by the banking entity to ensure that the hedging activity satisfies the requirements set out in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and is not prohibited proprietary trading.
(c)
Documentation requirement.
(1) A banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section, unless the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section are met, with respect to any purchase or sale of financial instruments made in reliance on this section for risk-mitigating hedging purposes that is:
(i) Not established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the hedging activity is designed to reduce;
(ii) Established by the specific trading desk establishing or responsible for the underlying positions, contracts, or other holdings the risks of which the purchases or sales are designed to reduce, but that is effected through a financial instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy that is not specifically identified in the trading desk's written policies and procedures established under paragraph (b)(1) of this section or under § 248.4(b)(2)(iii)(B) of this subpart as a product, instrument, exposure, technique, or strategy such trading desk may use for hedging; or
(iii) Established to hedge aggregated positions across two or more trading desks.
(2) In connection with any purchase or sale identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a banking entity must, at a minimum, and contemporaneously with the purchase or sale, document:
(i) The specific, identifiable risk(s) of the identified positions, contracts, or other holdings of the banking entity that the purchase or sale is designed to reduce;
(ii) The specific risk-mitigating strategy that the purchase or sale is designed to fulfill; and
(iii) The trading desk or other business unit that is establishing and responsible for the hedge.
(3) A banking entity must create and retain records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (c) for a period that is no less than five years in a form that allows the banking entity to promptly produce such records to the Board on request, or such longer period as required under other law or this part.
(4) The requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section do not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if:
(i) The financial instrument purchased or sold is identified on a written list of pre-approved financial instruments that are commonly used by the trading desk for the specific type of hedging activity for which the financial instrument is being purchased or sold; and
(ii) At the time the financial instrument is purchased or sold, the hedging activity (including the purchase or sale of the financial instrument) complies with written, pre-approved limits for the trading desk purchasing or selling the financial instrument for hedging activities undertaken for one or more other trading desks. The limits shall be appropriate for the:
(A) Size, types, and risks of the hedging activities commonly undertaken by the trading desk;
(B) Financial instruments purchased and sold for hedging activities by the trading desk; and
(C) Levels and duration of the risk exposures being hedged.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62134, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 248.6
Other permitted proprietary trading activities.
(a)
Permitted trading in domestic government obligations.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale by a banking entity of a financial instrument that is:
(1) An obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the United States;
(2) An obligation, participation, or other instrument of, or issued or guaranteed by, an agency of the United States, the Government National Mortgage Association, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, a Federal Home Loan Bank, the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation or a Farm Credit System institution chartered under and subject to the provisions of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001
et seq.
);
(3) An obligation of any State or any political subdivision thereof, including any municipal security; or
(4) An obligation of the FDIC, or any entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for purpose of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired or held by the FDIC in its corporate capacity or as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(b)
Permitted trading in foreign government obligations
—(1)
Affiliates of foreign banking entities in the United States.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of such foreign sovereign, by a banking entity, so long as:
(i) The banking entity is organized under or is directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of a foreign sovereign and is not directly or indirectly controlled by a top-tier banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States;
(ii) The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign banking entity referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section is organized (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign; and
(iii) The purchase or sale as principal is not made by an insured depository institution.
(2)
Foreign affiliates of a U.S. banking entity.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument that is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, a foreign sovereign (including
any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign, by a foreign entity that is owned or controlled by a banking entity organized or established under the laws of the United States or any State, so long as:
(i) The foreign entity is a foreign bank, as defined in section 211.2(j) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.2(j)), or is regulated by the foreign sovereign as a securities dealer;
(ii) The financial instrument is an obligation of, or issued or guaranteed by, the foreign sovereign under the laws of which the foreign entity is organized (including any multinational central bank of which the foreign sovereign is a member), or any agency or political subdivision of that foreign sovereign; and
(iii) The financial instrument is owned by the foreign entity and is not financed by an affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(c)
Permitted trading on behalf of customers
—(1)
Fiduciary transactions.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity acting as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity, so long as:
(i) The transaction is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer; and
(ii) The banking entity does not have or retain beneficial ownership of the financial instruments.
(2)
Riskless principal transactions.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity acting as riskless principal in a transaction in which the banking entity, after receiving an order to purchase (or sell) a financial instrument from a customer, purchases (or sells) the financial instrument for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
(d)
Permitted trading by a regulated insurance company.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity that is an insurance company or an affiliate of an insurance company if:
(1) The insurance company or its affiliate purchases or sells the financial instruments solely for:
(i) The general account of the insurance company; or
(ii) A separate account established by the insurance company;
(2) The purchase or sale is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the insurance company investment laws, regulations, and written guidance of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law, regulation, or written guidance described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the covered banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
(e)
Permitted trading activities of foreign banking entities.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity if:
(i) The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The purchase or sale by the banking entity is made pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act; and
(iii) The purchase or sale meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) A purchase or sale of financial instruments by a banking entity is made pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section only if:
(i) The purchase or sale is conducted in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section; and
(ii)(A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization, the banking entity meets the
qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of section 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)), as applicable; or
(B) With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization, the banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and the banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the following requirements:
(
1
) Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(
2
) Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States; or
(
3
) Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States.
(3) A purchase or sale by a banking entity is permitted for purposes of this paragraph (e) if:
(i) The banking entity engaging as principal in the purchase or sale (including relevant personnel) is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision to purchase or sell as principal is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(iii) The purchase or sale, including any transaction arising from risk-mitigating hedging related to the instruments purchased or sold, is not accounted for as principal directly or on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is considered to be located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(f)
Permitted trading activities of qualifying foreign excluded funds.
The prohibition contained in § 248.3(a) does not apply to the purchase or sale of a financial instrument by a qualifying foreign excluded fund. For purposes of this paragraph (f), a qualifying foreign excluded fund means a banking entity that:
(1) Is organized or established outside the United States, and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(2)(i) Would be a covered fund if the entity were organized or established in the United States, or
(ii) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in financial instruments for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in financial instruments;
(3) Would not otherwise be a banking entity except by virtue of the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, sponsorship of, or relationship with the entity, by another banking entity that meets the following:
(i) The banking entity is not organized, or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized, under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(ii) The banking entity's acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in or sponsorship of the fund meets the requirements for permitted covered fund activities and investments solely outside the United States, as provided in § 248.13(b);
(4) Is established and operated as part of a bona fide asset management business; and
(5) Is not operated in a manner that enables the banking entity that sponsors or controls the qualifying foreign excluded fund, or any of its affiliates, to evade the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62135, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46503, July 31, 2020]
§ 248.7
Limitations on permitted proprietary trading activities.
(a) No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed permissible under §§ 248.4 through 248.6 if the transaction, class of transactions, or activity would:
(1) Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2) Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3) Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States.
(b)
Definition of material conflict of interest.
(1) For purposes of this section, a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity's interests being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging in the specific activity, the banking entity:
(i)
Timely and effective disclosure.
(A) Has made clear, timely, and effective disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable client, customer, or counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)
Information barriers.
Has established, maintained, and enforced information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity's business, to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions or activity, the banking entity knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the banking entity's establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)
Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
High-risk asset
means an asset or group of related assets that would, if held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(2)
High-risk trading strategy
means a trading strategy that would, if engaged in by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
§§ 248.8-248.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Covered Funds Activities and Investments
§ 248.10
Prohibition on acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in and having certain relationships with a covered fund.
(a)
Prohibition.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in this subpart, a banking entity may not, as principal, directly or indirectly, acquire or retain any ownership interest in or sponsor a covered fund.
(2) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not include acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in a covered fund by a banking entity:
(i) Acting solely as agent, broker, or custodian, so long as;
(A) The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, a customer; and
(B) The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest;
(ii) Through a deferred compensation, stock-bonus, profit-sharing, or pension plan of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) that is established and administered in accordance with the law of the United States or a foreign sovereign, if the ownership interest is held or controlled directly or indirectly by the banking entity as trustee for the benefit of persons who are or were employees of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof);
(iii) In the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, provided that the banking entity divests the ownership interest as soon as practicable, and in no event may the banking entity retain such ownership interest for longer than such period permitted by the Board; or
(iv) On behalf of customers as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity for a customer that is not a covered fund, so long as:
(A) The activity is conducted for the account of, or on behalf of, the customer; and
(B) The banking entity and its affiliates do not have or retain beneficial ownership of such ownership interest.
(b)
Definition of covered fund.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, covered fund means:
(i) An issuer that would be an investment company, as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
),
but for
section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) or (7));
(ii) Any commodity pool under section 1a(10) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(10)) for which:
(A) The commodity pool operator has claimed an exemption under 17 CFR 4.7; or
(B)(
1
) A commodity pool operator is registered with the CFTC as a commodity pool operator in connection with the operation of the commodity pool;
(
2
) Substantially all participation units of the commodity pool are owned by qualified eligible persons under 17 CFR 4.7(a)(2) and (3); and
(
3
) Participation units of the commodity pool have not been publicly offered to persons who are not qualified eligible persons under 17 CFR 4.7(a)(2) and (3); or
(iii) For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, an entity that:
(A) Is organized or established outside the United States and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(B) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities; and
(C)(
1
) Has as its sponsor that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof); or
(
2
) Has issued an ownership interest that is owned directly or indirectly by that banking entity (or an affiliate thereof).
(2) An issuer shall not be deemed to be a covered fund under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section if, were the issuer subject to U.S. securities laws, the issuer could rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act.
(3) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, unless the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine otherwise, a covered fund does not include:
(1)
Foreign public funds.
(i) Subject to paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, an issuer that:
(A) Is organized or established outside of the United States; and
(B) Is authorized to offer and sell ownership interests, and such interests are offered and sold, through one or more public offerings.
(ii) With respect to a banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and any issuer for which such banking entity acts as sponsor, the sponsoring banking entity may not rely on the exemption in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for such issuer unless more than 75 percent of the ownership interests in the issuer are sold to persons other than:
(A) Such sponsoring banking entity;
(B) Such issuer;
(C) Affiliates of such sponsoring banking entity or such issuer; and
(D) Directors and senior executive officers as defined in § 225.71(c) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.71(c)) of such entities.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the term “public offering” means a distribution (as defined in § 248.4(a)(3)) of securities in any jurisdiction outside the United States to investors, including retail investors, provided that:
(A) The distribution is subject to substantive disclosure and retail investor protection laws or regulations;
(B) With respect to an issuer for which the banking entity serves as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator, or sponsor, the distribution complies with all applicable requirements in the jurisdiction in which such distribution is being made;
(C) The distribution does not restrict availability to investors having a minimum level of net worth or net investment assets; and
(D) The issuer has filed or submitted, with the appropriate regulatory authority in such jurisdiction, offering disclosure documents that are publicly available.
(2)
Wholly-owned subsidiaries.
An entity, all of the outstanding ownership interests of which are owned directly or indirectly by the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof), except that:
(i) Up to five percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests, less any amounts outstanding under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, may be held by employees or directors of the banking entity or such affiliate (including former employees or directors if their ownership interest was acquired while employed by or in the service of the banking entity); and
(ii) Up to 0.5 percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests may be held by a third party if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by the third party for the purpose of establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.
(3)
Joint ventures.
A joint venture between a banking entity or any of its affiliates and one or more unaffiliated persons, provided that the joint venture:
(i) Is composed of no more than 10 unaffiliated co-venturers;
(ii) Is in the business of engaging in activities that are permissible for the banking entity or affiliate, other than investing in securities for resale or other disposition; and
(iii) Is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities.
(4)
Acquisition vehicles.
An issuer:
(i) Formed solely for the purpose of engaging in a
bona fide
merger or acquisition transaction; and
(ii) That exists only for such period as necessary to effectuate the transaction.
(5)
Foreign pension or retirement funds.
A plan, fund, or program providing pension, retirement, or similar benefits that is:
(i) Organized and administered outside the United States;
(ii) A broad-based plan for employees or citizens that is subject to regulation as a pension, retirement, or similar plan under the laws of the jurisdiction in which the plan, fund, or program is organized and administered; and
(iii) Established for the benefit of citizens or residents of one or more foreign sovereigns or any political subdivision thereof.
(6)
Insurance company separate accounts.
A separate account, provided that no banking entity other than the insurance company participates in the account's profits and losses.
(7)
Bank owned life insurance.
A separate account that is used solely for the purpose of allowing one or more banking entities to purchase a life insurance policy for which the banking entity or entities is beneficiary, provided that no banking entity that purchases the policy:
(i) Controls the investment decisions regarding the underlying assets or holdings of the separate account; or
(ii) Participates in the profits and losses of the separate account other than in compliance with applicable requirements regarding bank owned life insurance.
(8)
Loan securitizations
—(i)
Scope.
An issuing entity for asset-backed securities that satisfies all the conditions of this paragraph (c)(8) and the assets or holdings of which are composed solely of:
(A) Loans as defined in § 248.2(t);
(B) Rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to holders of such securities and rights or other assets that are related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the loans, provided that each asset that is a security (other than special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section) meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iii) of this section;
(C) Interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section;
(D) Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(v) of this section; and
(E) Debt securities, other than asset-backed securities and convertible securities, provided that:
(
1
) The aggregate value of such debt securities does not exceed five percent of the aggregate value of loans held under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(A) of this section, cash and cash equivalents held under paragraph (c)(8)(iii)(A) of this section, and debt securities held under this paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E); and
(
2
) The aggregate value of the loans, cash and cash equivalents, and debt securities for purposes of this paragraph is calculated at par value at the most recent time any such debt security is acquired, except that the issuing entity may instead determine the value of any such loan, cash equivalent, or debt security based on its fair market value if:
(
i
) The issuing entity is required to use the fair market value of such assets for purposes of calculating compliance with concentration limitations or other similar calculations under its transaction agreements, and
(
ii
) The issuing entity's valuation methodology values similarly situated assets consistently.
(ii)
Impermissible assets.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(8), except as permitted under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section, the assets or holdings of the issuing entity shall not include any of the following:
(A) A security, including an asset-backed security, or an interest in an equity or debt security other than as permitted in paragraphs (c)(8)(iii), (iv), or (v) of this section;
(B) A derivative, other than a derivative that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(8)(iv) of this section; or
(C) A commodity forward contract.
(iii)
Permitted securities.
Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(8)(ii)(A) of this section, the issuing entity may hold securities, other than debt securities permitted under paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section, if those securities are:
(A) Cash equivalents—which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the securitization's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to either the underlying loans or the asset-backed securities—for purposes of the rights and assets in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section; or
(B) Securities received in lieu of debts previously contracted with respect to the loans supporting the asset-backed securities.
(iv)
Derivatives.
The holdings of derivatives by the issuing entity shall be limited to interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives that satisfy all of the following conditions:
(A) The written terms of the derivatives directly relate to the loans, the asset-backed securities, the contractual rights or other assets described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section, or the debt securities described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section; and
(B) The derivatives reduce the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks related to the loans, the asset-backed securities, the contractual rights or other assets described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(B) of this section, or the debt securities described in paragraph (c)(8)(i)(E) of this section.
(v)
Special units of beneficial interest and collateral certificates.
The assets or holdings of the issuing entity may include collateral certificates and special units of beneficial interest issued by a special purpose vehicle, provided that:
(A) The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate meets the requirements in this paragraph (c)(8);
(B) The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is used for the sole purpose of transferring to the issuing entity for the loan securitization the economic risks and benefits of the assets that are permissible for loan securitizations under this paragraph (c)(8) and does not directly or indirectly transfer any interest in any other economic or financial exposure;
(C) The special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate is created solely to satisfy legal requirements or otherwise facilitate the structuring of the loan securitization; and
(D) The special purpose vehicle that issues the special unit of beneficial interest or collateral certificate and the issuing entity are established under the direction of the same entity that initiated the loan securitization.
(9)
Qualifying asset-backed commercial paper conduits.
(i) An issuing entity for asset-backed commercial paper that satisfies all of the following requirements:
(A) The asset-backed commercial paper conduit holds only:
(
1
) Loans and other assets permissible for a loan securitization under paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section; and
(
2
) Asset-backed securities supported solely by assets that are permissible for loan securitizations under paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section and acquired by the asset-backed commercial paper conduit as part of an initial issuance either directly from the issuing entity of the asset-backed securities or directly from an underwriter in the distribution of the asset-backed securities;
(B) The asset-backed commercial paper conduit issues only asset-backed securities, comprised of a residual interest and securities with a legal maturity of 397 days or less; and
(C) A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding commitment to provide full and unconditional liquidity coverage with respect to all of the outstanding asset-backed securities issued by the asset-backed commercial paper conduit (other than any residual interest) in the event that funds are required to redeem maturing asset-backed securities.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(9), a regulated liquidity provider means:
(A) A depository institution, as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c));
(B) A bank holding company, as defined in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)), or a subsidiary thereof;
(C) A savings and loan holding company, as defined in section 10a of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a), provided all or substantially all of the holding company's activities are permissible for a financial holding company under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)), or a subsidiary thereof;
(D) A foreign bank whose home country supervisor, as defined in § 211.21(q) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(q)), has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord for the Basel Committee on banking Supervision, as amended, and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof; or
(E) The United States or a foreign sovereign.
(10)
Qualifying covered bonds
—(i)
Scope.
An entity owning or holding a dynamic or fixed pool of loans or other assets as provided in paragraph (c)(8) of this section for the benefit of the holders of covered bonds, provided that the assets in the pool are composed solely of assets that meet the conditions in paragraph (c)(8)(i) of this section.
(ii)
Covered bond.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(10), a covered bond means:
(A) A debt obligation issued by an entity that meets the definition of foreign banking organization, the payment obligations of which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section; or
(B) A debt obligation of an entity that meets the conditions set forth in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section, provided that the payment obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by an entity that meets the definition of foreign banking organization and the entity is a wholly-owned subsidiary, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, of such foreign banking organization.
(11)
SBICs and public welfare investment funds.
An issuer:
(i) That is a small business investment company, as defined in section 103(3) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662), or that has received from the Small Business Administration notice to proceed to qualify for a license as a small business investment company, which notice or license has not been revoked, or that has voluntarily surrendered its license to operate as a small business investment company in accordance with 13 CFR 107.1900 and does not make any new investments (other than investments in cash equivalents, which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to the issuer's assets) after such voluntary surrender;
(ii) The business of which is to make investments that are:
(A) Designed primarily to promote the public welfare, of the type permitted under paragraph (11) of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes of the United States (12 U.S.C. 24), including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or families (such as providing housing, services, or jobs) and including investments that qualify for consideration under the regulations implementing the Community Reinvestment Act (12 U.S.C. 2901
et seq.
); or
(B) Qualified rehabilitation expenditures with respect to a qualified rehabilitated building or certified historic structure, as such terms are defined in section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or a similar State historic tax credit program;
(iii) That has elected to be regulated or is regulated as a rural business investment company, as described in 15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b)(8)(A) or (B), or that has terminated its participation as a rural business investment company in accordance with 7 CFR 4290.1900 and does not make any new investments (other than investments in cash equivalents, which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to the issuer's assets) after such termination; or
(iv) That is a qualified opportunity fund, as defined in 26 U.S.C. 1400Z-2(d)
(12)
Registered investment companies and excluded entities.
An issuer:
(i) That is registered as an investment company under section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8), or that is formed and operated pursuant to a written plan to become a registered investment company as described in § 248.20(e)(3) of subpart D and that complies with the requirements of section 18 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-18);
(ii) That may rely on an exclusion or exemption from the definition of “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) other than the exclusions contained in section 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of that Act; or
(iii) That has elected to be regulated as a business development company
pursuant to section 54(a) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-53) and has not withdrawn its election, or that is formed and operated pursuant to a written plan to become a business development company as described in § 248.20(e)(3) of subpart D and that complies with the requirements of section 61 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-60).
(13)
Issuers in conjunction with the FDIC's receivership or conservatorship operations.
An issuer that is an entity formed by or on behalf of the FDIC for the purpose of facilitating the disposal of assets acquired in the FDIC's capacity as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(14)
Other excluded issuers.
(i) Any issuer that the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, and the CFTC jointly determine the exclusion of which is consistent with the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act.
(ii) A determination made under paragraph (c)(14)(i) of this section will be promptly made public.
(15)
Credit funds.
Subject to paragraphs (c)(15)(iii), (iv), and (v) of this section, an issuer that satisfies the asset and activity requirements of paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i)
Asset requirements.
The issuer's assets must be composed solely of:
(A) Loans as defined in § 248.2(t);
(B) Debt instruments, subject to paragraph (c)(15)(iv) of this section;
(C) Rights and other assets that are related or incidental to acquiring, holding, servicing, or selling such loans or debt instruments, provided that:
(
1
) Each right or asset held under this paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) that is a security is either:
(
i
) A cash equivalent (which, for the purposes of this paragraph, means high quality, highly liquid investments whose maturity corresponds to the issuer's expected or potential need for funds and whose currency corresponds to either the underlying loans or the debt instruments);
(
ii
) A security received in lieu of debts previously contracted with respect to such loans or debt instruments; or
(
iii
) An equity security (or right to acquire an equity security) received on customary terms in connection with such loans or debt instruments; and
(
2
) Rights or other assets held under this paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section may not include commodity forward contracts or any derivative; and
(D) Interest rate or foreign exchange derivatives, if:
(
1
) The written terms of the derivative directly relate to the loans, debt instruments, or other rights or assets described in paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section; and
(
2
) The derivative reduces the interest rate and/or foreign exchange risks related to the loans, debt instruments, or other rights or assets described in paragraph (c)(15)(i)(C) of this section.
(ii)
Activity requirements.
To be eligible for the exclusion of paragraph (c)(15) of this section, an issuer must:
(A) Not engage in any activity that would constitute proprietary trading under § 248.3(b)(l)(i), as if the issuer were a banking entity; and
(B) Not issue asset-backed securities.
(iii)
Requirements for a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor.
A banking entity that acts as a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section may not rely on this exclusion unless the banking entity:
(A) Provides in writing to any prospective and actual investor in the issuer the disclosures required under § 248.11(a)(8) of this subpart, as if the issuer were a covered fund;
(B) Ensures that the activities of the issuer are consistent with safety and soundness standards that are substantially similar to those that would apply if the banking entity engaged in the activities directly; and
(C) Complies with the limitations imposed in § 248.14, as if the issuer were a covered fund, except the banking entity may acquire and retain any ownership interest in the issuer.
(iv)
Additional Banking Entity Requirements.
A banking entity may not rely on this exclusion with respect to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraphs (c)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section unless:
(A) The banking entity does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the issuer or of any entity to which such issuer extends credit or in which such issuer invests; and
(B) Any assets the issuer holds pursuant to paragraphs (c)(15)(i)(B) or (i)(C)(
1
)(
iii
) of this section would be permissible for the banking entity to acquire and hold directly under applicable federal banking laws and regulations.
(v)
Investment and Relationship Limits.
A banking entity's investment in, and relationship with, the issuer must:
(A) Comply with the limitations imposed in § 248.15, as if the issuer were a covered fund; and
(B) Be conducted in compliance with, and subject to, applicable banking laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(16)
Qualifying venture capital funds.
(i) Subject to paragraphs (c)(16)(ii) through (iv) of this section, an issuer that:
(A) Is a venture capital fund as defined in 17 CFR 275.203(l)-1; and
(B) Does not engage in any activity that would constitute proprietary trading under § 248.3(b)(1)(i), as if the issuer were a banking entity.
(ii) A banking entity that acts as a sponsor, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor to an issuer that meets the conditions in paragraph (c)(16)(i) of this section may not rely on this exclusion unless the banking entity:
(A) Provides in writing to any prospective and actual investor in the issuer the disclosures required under § 248.11(a)(8), as if the issuer were a covered fund;
(B) Ensures that the activities of the issuer are consistent with safety and soundness standards that are substantially similar to those that would apply if the banking entity engaged in the activities directly; and
(C) Complies with the restrictions in § 248.14 as if the issuer were a covered fund (except the banking entity may acquire and retain any ownership interest in the issuer).
(iii) The banking entity must not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the issuer.
(iv) A banking entity's ownership interest in or relationship with the issuer must:
(A) Comply with the limitations imposed in § 248.15, as if the issuer were a covered fund; and
(B) Be conducted in compliance with, and subject to, applicable banking laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(17)
Family wealth management vehicles.
(i) Subject to paragraph (c)(17)(ii) of this section, any entity that is not, and does not hold itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in securities for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in securities, and:
(A) If the entity is a trust, the grantor(s) of the entity are all family customers; and
(B) If the entity is not a trust:
(
1
) A majority of the voting interests in the entity are owned (directly or indirectly) by family customers;
(
2
) A majority of the interests in the entity are owned (directly or indirectly) by family customers;
(
3
) The entity is owned only by family customers and up to 5 closely related persons of the family customers; and
(C) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(17)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, up to an aggregate 0.5 percent of the entity's outstanding ownership interests may be acquired or retained by one or more entities that are not family customers or closely related persons if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by such parties for the purpose of and to the extent necessary for establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns.
(ii) A banking entity may rely on the exclusion in paragraph (c)(17)(i) of this section with respect to an entity provided that the banking entity (or an affiliate):
(A) Provides bona fide trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services to the entity;
(B) Does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure
the obligations or performance of such entity;
(C) Complies with the disclosure obligations under § 248.11(a)(8), as if such entity were a covered fund, provided that the content may be modified to prevent the disclosure from being misleading and the manner of disclosure may be modified to accommodate the specific circumstances of the entity;
(D) Does not acquire or retain, as principal, an ownership interest in the entity, other than as described in paragraph (c)(17)(i)(C) of this section;
(E) Complies with the requirements of §§ 248.14(b) and 248.15, as if such entity were a covered fund; and
(F) Except for riskless principal transactions as defined in paragraph (d)(11) of this section, complies with the requirements of 12 CFR 223.15(a), as if such banking entity and its affiliates were a member bank and the entity were an affiliate thereof.
(iii) For purposes of paragraph (c)(17) of this section, the following definitions apply:
(A)
Closely related person
means a natural person (including the estate and estate planning vehicles of such person) who has longstanding business or personal relationships with any family customer.
(B)
Family customer
means:
(
1
) A family client, as defined in Rule 202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(4) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (17 CFR 275.202(a)(11)(G)-1(d)(4)); or
(
2
) Any natural person who is a father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law or daughter-in-law of a family client, or a spouse or a spousal equivalent of any of the foregoing.
(18)
Customer facilitation vehicles.
(i) Subject to paragraph (c)(18)(ii) of this section, an issuer that is formed by or at the request of a customer of the banking entity for the purpose of providing such customer (which may include one or more affiliates of such customer) with exposure to a transaction, investment strategy, or other service provided by the banking entity.
(ii) A banking entity may rely on the exclusion in paragraph (c)(18)(i) of this section with respect to an issuer provided that:
(A) All of the ownership interests of the issuer are owned by the customer (which may include one or more of its affiliates) for whom the issuer was created;
(B) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(18)(ii)(A) of this section, up to an aggregate 0.5 percent of the issuer's outstanding ownership interests may be acquired or retained by one or more entities that are not customers if the ownership interest is acquired or retained by such parties for the purpose of and to the extent necessary for establishing corporate separateness or addressing bankruptcy, insolvency, or similar concerns; and
(C) The banking entity and its affiliates:
(
1
) Maintain documentation outlining how the banking entity intends to facilitate the customer's exposure to such transaction, investment strategy, or service;
(
2
) Do not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of such issuer;
(
3
) Comply with the disclosure obligations under § 248.11(a)(8), as if such issuer were a covered fund, provided that the content may be modified to prevent the disclosure from being misleading and the manner of disclosure may be modified to accommodate the specific circumstances of the issuer;
(
4
) Do not acquire or retain, as principal, an ownership interest in the issuer, other than as described in paragraph (c)(18)(ii)(B) of this section;
(
5
) Comply with the requirements of §§ 248.14(b) and 248.15, as if such issuer were a covered fund; and
(
6
) Except for riskless principal transactions as defined in paragraph (d)(11) of this section, comply with the requirements of 12 CFR 223.15(a), as if such banking entity and its affiliates were a member bank and the issuer were an affiliate thereof.
(d)
Definition of other terms related to covered funds.
For purposes of this subpart:
(1)
Applicable accounting standards
means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or such other accounting standards applicable to a banking entity that the Board determines are appropriate and that the
banking entity uses in the ordinary course of its business in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
(2)
Asset-backed security
has the meaning specified in Section 3(a)(79) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79).
(3)
Director
has the same meaning as provided in section 215.2(d)(1) of the Board's Regulation O (12 CFR 215.2(d)(1)).
(4)
Issuer
has the same meaning as in section 2(a)(22) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(22)).
(5)
Issuing entity
means with respect to asset-backed securities the special purpose vehicle that owns or holds the pool assets underlying asset-backed securities and in whose name the asset-backed securities supported or serviced by the pool assets are issued.
(6)
Ownership interest
—(i)
Ownership interest
means any equity, partnership, or other similar interest. An “other similar interest” means an interest that:
(A) Has the right to participate in the selection or removal of a general partner, managing member, member of the board of directors or trustees, investment manager, investment adviser, or commodity trading advisor of the covered fund, excluding:
(
1
) The rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event; and
(
2
) The right to participate in the removal of an investment manager for “cause” or participate in the selection of a replacement manager upon an investment manager's resignation or removal. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(6)(i)(A)(
2
), “cause” for removal of an investment manager means one or more of the following events:
(i)
The bankruptcy, insolvency, conservatorship or receivership of the investment manager;
(ii)
The breach by the investment manager of any material provision of the covered fund's transaction agreements applicable to the investment manager;
(iii)
The breach by the investment manager of material representations or warranties;
(iv)
The occurrence of an act that constitutes fraud or criminal activity in the performance of the investment manager's obligations under the covered fund's transaction agreements;
(v)
The indictment of the investment manager for a criminal offense, or the indictment of any officer, member, partner or other principal of the investment manager for a criminal offense materially related to his or her investment management activities;
(vi)
A change in control with respect to the investment manager;
(vii)
The loss, separation or incapacitation of an individual critical to the operation of the investment manager or primarily responsible for the management of the covered fund's assets; or
(viii)
Other similar events that constitute “cause” for removal of an investment manager, provided that such events are not solely related to the performance of the covered fund or the investment manager's exercise of investment discretion under the covered fund's transaction agreements;
(B) Has the right under the terms of the interest to receive a share of the income, gains or profits of the covered fund;
(C) Has the right to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund after all other interests have been redeemed and/or paid in full (excluding the rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event);
(D) Has the right to receive all or a portion of excess spread (the positive difference, if any, between the aggregate interest payments received from the underlying assets of the covered fund and the aggregate interest paid to the holders of other outstanding interests);
(E) Provides under the terms of the interest that the amounts payable by the covered fund with respect to the interest could be reduced based on losses arising from the underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of interest due and payable on the interest;
(F) Receives income on a pass-through basis from the covered fund, or has a rate of return that is determined by reference to the performance of the
underlying assets of the covered fund; or
(G) Any synthetic right to have, receive, or be allocated any of the rights in paragraphs (d)(6)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.
(ii) Ownership interest does not include:
(A) Restricted profit interest, which is an interest held by an entity (or an employee or former employee thereof) in a covered fund for which the entity (or employee thereof) serves as investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or other service provider, so long as:
(
1
) The sole purpose and effect of the interest is to allow the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) to share in the profits of the covered fund as performance compensation for the investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services provided to the covered fund by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof), provided that the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) may be obligated under the terms of such interest to return profits previously received;
(
2
) All such profit, once allocated, is distributed to the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) promptly after being earned or, if not so distributed, is retained by the covered fund for the sole purpose of establishing a reserve amount to satisfy contractual obligations with respect to subsequent losses of the covered fund and such undistributed profit of the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) does not share in the subsequent investment gains of the covered fund;
(
3
) Any amounts invested in the covered fund, including any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining the restricted profit interest, are within the limits of § 248.12 of this subpart; and
(
4
) The interest is not transferable by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) except to an affiliate thereof (or an employee of the banking entity or affiliate), to immediate family members, or through the intestacy, of the employee or former employee, or in connection with a sale of the business that gave rise to the restricted profit interest by the entity (or employee or former employee thereof) to an unaffiliated party that provides investment management, investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the fund.
(B) Any senior loan or senior debt interest that has the following characteristics:
(
1
) Under the terms of the interest the holders of such interest do not have the right to receive a share of the income, gains, or profits of the covered fund, but are entitled to receive only:
(
i
) Interest at a stated interest rate, as well as commitment fees or other fees, which are not determined by reference to the performance of the underlying assets of the covered fund; and
(
ii
) Repayment of a fixed principal amount, on or before a maturity date, in a contractually-determined manner (which may include prepayment premiums intended solely to reflect, and compensate holders of the interest for, forgone income resulting from an early prepayment);
(
2
) The entitlement to payments under the terms of the interest are absolute and could not be reduced based on losses arising from the underlying assets of the covered fund, such as allocation of losses, write-downs or charge-offs of the outstanding principal balance, or reductions in the amount of interest due and payable on the interest; and
(
3
) The holders of the interest are not entitled to receive the underlying assets of the covered fund after all other interests have been redeemed or paid in full (excluding the rights of a creditor to exercise remedies upon the occurrence of an event of default or an acceleration event).
(7)
Prime brokerage transaction
means any transaction that would be a covered transaction, as defined in section 23A(b)(7) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), that is provided in connection with custody, clearance and settlement, securities borrowing or lending services, trade execution, financing, or data, operational, and administrative support.
(8)
Resident of the United States
means a person that is a “U.S. person” as defined in rule 902(k) of the SEC's Regulation S (17 CFR 230.902(k)).
(9)
Sponsor
means, with respect to a covered fund:
(i) To serve as a general partner, managing member, or trustee of a covered fund, or to serve as a commodity pool operator with respect to a covered fund as defined in (b)(1)(ii) of this section;
(ii) In any manner to select or to control (or to have employees, officers, or directors, or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of a covered fund; or
(iii) To share with a covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes, the same name or a variation of the same name, except as permitted under § 248.11(a)(6).
(10)
Trustee.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (d)(9) of this section and § 248.11 of subpart C, a trustee does not include:
(A) A trustee that does not exercise investment discretion with respect to a covered fund, including a trustee that is subject to the direction of an unaffiliated named fiduciary who is not a trustee pursuant to section 403(a)(1) of the Employee's Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1103(a)(1)); or
(B) A trustee that is subject to fiduciary standards imposed under foreign law that are substantially equivalent to those described in paragraph (d)(10)(i)(A) of this section;
(ii) Any entity that directs a person described in paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section, or that possesses authority and discretion to manage and control the investment decisions of a covered fund for which such person serves as trustee, shall be considered to be a trustee of such covered fund.
(11)
Riskless principal transaction.
Riskless principal transaction means a transaction in which a banking entity, after receiving an order from a customer to buy (or sell) a security, purchases (or sells) the security in the secondary market for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to (or purchase from) the customer.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35020, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 62136, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46503, July 31, 2020]
§ 248.11
Permitted organizing and offering, underwriting, and market making with respect to a covered fund.
(a)
Organizing and offering a covered fund in general.
Notwithstanding § 248.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity is not prohibited from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund in connection with, directly or indirectly, organizing and offering a covered fund, including serving as a general partner, managing member, trustee, or commodity pool operator of the covered fund and in any manner selecting or controlling (or having employees, officers, directors, or agents who constitute) a majority of the directors, trustees, or management of the covered fund, including any necessary expenses for the foregoing, only if:
(1) The banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) provides
bona fide
trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services;
(2) The covered fund is organized and offered only in connection with the provision of
bona fide
trust, fiduciary, investment advisory, or commodity trading advisory services and only to persons that are customers of such services of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof), pursuant to a written plan or similar documentation outlining how the banking entity or such affiliate intends to provide advisory or similar services to its customers through organizing and offering such fund;
(3) The banking entity and its affiliates do not acquire or retain an ownership interest in the covered fund except as permitted under § 248.12 of this subpart;
(4) The banking entity and its affiliates comply with the requirements of § 248.14 of this subpart;
(5) The banking entity and its affiliates do not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests;
(6) The covered fund, for corporate, marketing, promotional, or other purposes:
(i) Does not share the same name or a variation of the same name with the
banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) except that a covered fund may share the same name or a variation of the same name with a banking entity that is an investment adviser to the covered fund if:
(A) The investment adviser is not an insured depository institution, a company that controls an insured depository institution, or a company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(B) The investment adviser does not share the same name or a variation of the same name as an insured depository institution, a company that controls an insured depository institution, or a company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of section 8 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106); and
(ii) Does not use the word “bank” in its name;
(7) No director or employee of the banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) takes or retains an ownership interest in the covered fund, except for any director or employee of the banking entity or such affiliate who is directly engaged in providing investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund at the time the director or employee takes the ownership interest; and
(8) The banking entity:
(i) Clearly and conspicuously discloses, in writing, to any prospective and actual investor in the covered fund (such as through disclosure in the covered fund's offering documents):
(A) That “any losses in [such covered fund] will be borne solely by investors in [the covered fund] and not by [the banking entity] or its affiliates; therefore, [the banking entity's] losses in [such covered fund] will be limited to losses attributable to the ownership interests in the covered fund held by [the banking entity] and any affiliate in its capacity as investor in the [covered fund] or as beneficiary of a restricted profit interest held by [the banking entity] or any affiliate”;
(B) That such investor should read the fund offering documents before investing in the covered fund;
(C) That the “ownership interests in the covered fund are not insured by the FDIC, and are not deposits, obligations of, or endorsed or guaranteed in any way, by any banking entity” (unless that happens to be the case); and
(D) The role of the banking entity and its affiliates and employees in sponsoring or providing any services to the covered fund; and
(ii) Complies with any additional rules of the appropriate Federal banking agencies, the SEC, or the CFTC, as provided in section 13(b)(2) of the BHC Act, designed to ensure that losses in such covered fund are borne solely by investors in the covered fund and not by the covered banking entity and its affiliates.
(b)
Organizing and offering an issuing entity of asset-backed securities.
(1) Notwithstanding § 248.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity is not prohibited from acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in, or acting as sponsor to, a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities in connection with, directly or indirectly, organizing and offering that issuing entity, so long as the banking entity and its affiliates comply with all of the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) through (8) of this section.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (b), organizing and offering a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities means acting as the securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11(a)(3)) of the issuing entity, or acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in the issuing entity as required by section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C.78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder.
(c)
Underwriting and market making in ownership interests of a covered fund.
The prohibition contained in § 248.10(a) does not apply to a banking entity's underwriting activities or market making-related activities involving a covered fund so long as:
(1) Those activities are conducted in accordance with the requirements of § 248.4(a) or (b), respectively; and
(2) With respect to any banking entity (or any affiliate thereof) that: Acts as a sponsor, investment adviser or
commodity trading advisor to a particular covered fund or otherwise acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund in reliance on paragraph (a) of this section; or acquires and retains an ownership interest in such covered fund and is either a securitizer, as that term is used in section 15G(a)(3) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11(a)(3)), or is acquiring and retaining an ownership interest in such covered fund in compliance with section 15G of that Act (15 U.S.C.78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder each as permitted by paragraph (b) of this section, then in each such case any ownership interests acquired or retained by the banking entity and its affiliates in connection with underwriting and market making related activities for that particular covered fund are included in the calculation of ownership interests permitted to be held by the banking entity and its affiliates under the limitations of § 248.12(a)(2)(ii) and (iii) and (d).
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 35020, July 22, 2019; 84 FR 62136, Nov. 14, 2019]
§ 248.12
Permitted investment in a covered fund.
(a)
Authority and limitations on permitted investments in covered funds.
(1) Notwithstanding the prohibition contained in § 248.10(a) of this subpart, a banking entity may acquire and retain an ownership interest in a covered fund that the banking entity or an affiliate thereof organizes and offers pursuant to § 248.11, for the purposes of:
(i)
Establishment.
Establishing the fund and providing the fund with sufficient initial equity for investment to permit the fund to attract unaffiliated investors, subject to the limits contained in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section; or
(ii)
De minimis investment.
Making and retaining an investment in the covered fund subject to the limits contained in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(2)
Investment limits
—(i)
Seeding period.
With respect to an investment in any covered fund made or held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the banking entity and its affiliates:
(A) Must actively seek unaffiliated investors to reduce, through redemption, sale, dilution, or other methods, the aggregate amount of all ownership interests of the banking entity in the covered fund to the amount permitted in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section; and
(B) Must, no later than 1 year after the date of establishment of the fund (or such longer period as may be provided by the Board pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section), conform its ownership interest in the covered fund to the limits in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section;
(ii)
Per-fund limits.
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, an investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in any covered fund made or held pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may not exceed 3 percent of the total number or value of the outstanding ownership interests of the fund.
(B) An investment by a banking entity and its affiliates in a covered fund that is an issuing entity of asset-backed securities may not exceed 3 percent of the total fair market value of the ownership interests of the fund measured in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, unless a greater percentage is retained by the banking entity and its affiliates in compliance with the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
o
-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder, in which case the investment by the banking entity and its affiliates in the covered fund may not exceed the amount, number, or value of ownership interests of the fund required under section 15G of the Exchange Act and the implementing regulations issued thereunder.
(iii)
Aggregate limit.
The aggregate value of all ownership interests of the banking entity and its affiliates in all covered funds acquired or retained under this section may not exceed 3 percent of the tier 1 capital of the banking entity, as provided under paragraph (c) of this section, and shall be calculated as of the last day of each calendar quarter.
(iv)
Date of establishment.
For purposes of this section, the date of establishment of a covered fund shall be:
(A)
In general.
The date on which the investment adviser or similar entity to the covered fund begins making investments pursuant to the written investment strategy for the fund;
(B)
Issuing entities of asset-backed securities.
In the case of an issuing entity of asset-backed securities, the date on which the assets are initially transferred into the issuing entity of asset-backed securities.
(b)
Rules of construction
—(1)
Attribution of ownership interests to a covered banking entity.
(i) For purposes of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the amount and value of a banking entity's permitted investment in any single covered fund shall include any ownership interest held under § 248.12 directly by the banking entity, including any affiliate of the banking entity.
(ii)
Treatment of registered investment companies, SEC-regulated business development companies, and foreign public funds.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a registered investment company, SEC-regulated business development companies, or foreign public fund as described in § 248.10(c)(1) will not be considered to be an affiliate of the banking entity so long as:
(A) The banking entity, together with its affiliates, does not own, control, or hold with the power to vote 25 percent or more of the voting shares of the company or fund; and
(B) The banking entity, or an affiliate of the banking entity, provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, administrative, and other services to the company or fund in compliance with the limitations under applicable regulation, order, or other authority.
(iii)
Covered funds.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, a covered fund will not be considered to be an affiliate of a banking entity so long as the covered fund is held in compliance with the requirements of this subpart.
(iv)
Treatment of employee and director investments financed by the banking entity.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires an ownership interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the ownership interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(2)
Calculation of permitted ownership interests in a single covered fund.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) or (4), for purposes of determining whether an investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on ownership interests under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section:
(i) The aggregate number of the outstanding ownership interests held by the banking entity shall be the total number of ownership interests held under this section by the banking entity in a covered fund divided by the total number of ownership interests held by all entities in that covered fund, as of the last day of each calendar quarter (both measured without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment);
(ii) The aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests held by the banking entity shall be the aggregate fair market value of all investments in and capital contributions made to the covered fund by the banking entity, divided by the value of all investments in and capital contributions made to that covered fund by all entities, as of the last day of each calendar quarter (all measured without regard to committed funds not yet called for investment). If fair market value cannot be determined, then the value shall be the historical cost basis of all investments in and contributions made by the banking entity to the covered fund;
(iii) For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, once a valuation methodology is chosen, the banking entity must calculate the value of its investment and the investments of all others in the covered fund in the same manner and according to the same standards.
(3)
Issuing entities of asset-backed securities.
In the case of an ownership interest in an issuing entity of asset-backed
securities, for purposes of determining whether an investment in a single covered fund complies with the restrictions on ownership interests under paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section:
(i) For securitizations subject to the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11), the calculations shall be made as of the date and according to the valuation methodology applicable pursuant to the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11) and the implementing regulations issued thereunder; or
(ii) For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not apply), the calculations shall be made as of the date of establishment as defined in paragraph (a)(2)(iv)(B) of this section or such earlier date on which the transferred assets have been valued for purposes of transfer to the covered fund, and thereafter only upon the date on which additional securities of the issuing entity of asset-backed securities are priced for purposes of the sales of ownership interests to unaffiliated investors.
(iii) For securitization transactions completed prior to the compliance date of such implementing regulations (or as to which such implementing regulations do not apply), the aggregate value of the outstanding ownership interests in the covered fund shall be the fair market value of the assets transferred to the issuing entity of the securitization and any other assets otherwise held by the issuing entity at such time, determined in a manner that is consistent with its determination of the fair market value of those assets for financial statement purposes.
(iv) For purposes of the calculation under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair market value of the ownership interests must be the same for both the ownership interests held by a banking entity and the ownership interests held by all others in the covered fund in the same manner and according to the same standards.
(4)
Multi-tier fund investments
—(i)
Master-feeder fund investments.
If the principal investment strategy of a covered fund (the “feeder fund”) is to invest substantially all of its assets in another single covered fund (the “master fund”), then for purposes of the investment limitations in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the banking entity's permitted investment in such funds shall be measured only by reference to the value of the master fund. The banking entity's permitted investment in the master fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in the master fund, as well as the banking entity's pro-rata share of any ownership interest in the master fund that is held through the feeder fund; and
(ii)
Fund-of-funds investments.
If a banking entity organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 248.11 for the purpose of investing in other covered funds (a “fund of funds”) and that fund of funds itself invests in another covered fund that the banking entity is permitted to own, then the banking entity's permitted investment in that other fund shall include any investment by the banking entity in that other fund, as well as the banking entity's pro-rata share of any ownership interest in the fund that is held through the fund of funds. The investment of the banking entity may not represent more than 3 percent of the amount or value of any single covered fund.
(5)
Parallel Investments and Co-Investments.
(i) A banking entity shall not be required to include in the calculation of the investment limits under paragraph (a)(2) of this section any investment the banking entity makes alongside a covered fund as long as the investment is made in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(ii) A banking entity shall not be restricted under this section in the amount of any investment the banking entity makes alongside a covered fund as long as the investment is made in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including applicable safety and soundness standards.
(c)
Aggregate permitted investments in all covered funds.
(1)(i) For purposes of
paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the aggregate value of all ownership interests held by a banking entity shall be the sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest in covered funds (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 248.10(d)(6)(ii)), on a historical cost basis;
(ii) Treatment of employee and director restricted profit interests financed by the banking entity. For purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires a restricted profit interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the restricted profit interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(2)
Calculation of tier 1 capital.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section:
(i)
Entities that are required to hold and report tier 1 capital.
If a banking entity is required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital of the banking entity as of the last day of the most recent calendar quarter, as reported to its primary financial regulatory agency; and
(ii) If a banking entity is not required to calculate and report tier 1 capital, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be determined to be equal to:
(A) In the case of a banking entity that is controlled, directly or indirectly, by a depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital, be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital reported by such controlling depository institution in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section;
(B) In the case of a banking entity that is not controlled, directly or indirectly, by a depository institution that calculates and reports tier 1 capital:
(
1
)
Bank holding company subsidiaries.
If the banking entity is a subsidiary of a bank holding company or company that is treated as a bank holding company, be equal to the amount of tier 1 capital reported by the top-tier affiliate of such covered banking entity that calculates and reports tier 1 capital in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section; and
(
2
)
Other holding companies and any subsidiary or affiliate thereof.
If the banking entity is not a subsidiary of a bank holding company or a company that is treated as a bank holding company, be equal to the total amount of shareholders' equity of the top-tier affiliate within such organization as of the last day of the most recent calendar quarter that has ended, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
(iii)
Treatment of foreign banking entities
—(A)
Foreign banking entities.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, with respect to a banking entity that is not itself, and is not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, the tier 1 capital of the banking entity shall be the consolidated tier 1 capital of the entity as calculated under applicable home country standards.
(B)
U.S. affiliates of foreign banking entities.
With respect to a banking entity that is located or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State and is controlled by a foreign banking entity identified under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, the banking entity's tier 1 capital shall be as calculated under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.
(d)
Capital treatment for a permitted investment in a covered fund.
For purposes of calculating compliance with the applicable regulatory capital requirements, a banking entity shall deduct from the banking entity's tier 1 capital (as determined under paragraph (c)(2) of this section) the greater of:
(1)(i) The sum of all amounts paid or contributed by the banking entity in connection with acquiring or retaining an ownership interest (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 248.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C of this part), on a historical
cost basis, plus any earnings received; and
(ii) The fair market value of the banking entity's ownership interests in the covered fund as determined under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) or (b)(3) of this section (together with any amounts paid by the entity in connection with obtaining a restricted profit interest under § 248.10(d)(6)(ii) of subpart C of this part), if the banking entity accounts for the profits (or losses) of the fund investment in its financial statements.
(2) Treatment of employee and director restricted profit interests financed by the banking entity. For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an investment by a director or employee of a banking entity who acquires a restricted profit interest in his or her personal capacity in a covered fund sponsored by the banking entity will be attributed to the banking entity if the banking entity, directly or indirectly, extends financing for the purpose of enabling the director or employee to acquire the restricted profit interest in the fund and the financing is used to acquire such ownership interest in the covered fund.
(e)
Extension of time to divest an ownership interest
—(1)
Extension period.
Upon application by a banking entity, the Board may extend the period under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section for up to 2 additional years if the Board finds that an extension would be consistent with safety and soundness and not detrimental to the public interest.
(2)
Application requirements.
An application for extension must:
(i) Be submitted to the Board at least 90 days prior to the expiration of the applicable time period;
(ii) Provide the reasons for application, including information that addresses the factors in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and
(iii) Explain the banking entity's plan for reducing the permitted investment in a covered fund through redemption, sale, dilution or other methods as required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(3)
Factors governing the Board determinations.
In reviewing any application under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the Board may consider all the facts and circumstances related to the permitted investment in a covered fund, including:
(i) Whether the investment would result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies;
(ii) The contractual terms governing the banking entity's interest in the covered fund;
(iii) The date on which the covered fund is expected to have attracted sufficient investments from investors unaffiliated with the banking entity to enable the banking entity to comply with the limitations in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section;
(iv) The total exposure of the covered banking entity to the investment and the risks that disposing of, or maintaining, the investment in the covered fund may pose to the banking entity and the financial stability of the United States;
(v) The cost to the banking entity of divesting or disposing of the investment within the applicable period;
(vi) Whether the investment or the divestiture or conformance of the investment would involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and unaffiliated parties, including clients, customers, or counterparties to which it owes a duty;
(vii) The banking entity's prior efforts to reduce through redemption, sale, dilution, or other methods its ownership interests in the covered fund, including activities related to the marketing of interests in such covered fund;
(viii) Market conditions; and
(ix) Any other factor that the Board believes appropriate.
(4)
Authority to impose restrictions on activities or investment during any extension period.
The Board may impose such conditions on any extension approved under paragraph (e)(1) of this section as the Board determines are necessary or appropriate to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity or the financial stability of the United States, address material conflicts of interest or other unsound banking practices, or otherwise further the purposes of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part.
(5)
Consultation.
In the case of a banking entity that is primarily regulated by another Federal banking agency, the SEC, or the CFTC, the Board will consult with such agency prior to acting on an application by the banking entity for an extension under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62136, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46507, July 31, 2020]
§ 248.13
Other permitted covered fund activities and investments.
(a)
Permitted risk-mitigating hedging activities.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 248.10(a) does not apply with respect to an ownership interest in a covered fund acquired or retained by a banking entity that is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate the specific, identifiable risks to the banking entity in connection with:
(i) A compensation arrangement with an employee of the banking entity or an affiliate thereof that directly provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory or other services to the covered fund; or
(ii) A position taken by the banking entity when acting as intermediary on behalf of a customer that is not itself a banking entity to facilitate the exposure by the customer to the profits and losses of the covered fund.
(2)
Requirements.
The risk-mitigating hedging activities of a banking entity are permitted under this paragraph (a) only if:
(i) The banking entity has established and implements, maintains and enforces an internal compliance program in accordance with subpart D of this part that is reasonably designed to ensure the banking entity's compliance with the requirements of this section, including:
(A) Reasonably designed written policies and procedures; and
(B) Internal controls and ongoing monitoring, management, and authorization procedures, including relevant escalation procedures; and
(ii) The acquisition or retention of the ownership interest:
(A) Is made in accordance with the written policies, procedures, and internal controls required under this section;
(B) At the inception of the hedge, is designed to reduce or otherwise significantly mitigate one or more specific, identifiable risks arising:
(
1
) Out of a transaction conducted solely to accommodate a specific customer request with respect to the covered fund; or
(
2
) In connection with the compensation arrangement with the employee that directly provides investment advisory, commodity trading advisory, or other services to the covered fund;
(C) Does not give rise, at the inception of the hedge, to any significant new or additional risk that is not itself hedged contemporaneously in accordance with this section; and
(D) Is subject to continuing review, monitoring and management by the banking entity.
(iii) With respect to risk-mitigating hedging activity conducted pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i), the compensation arrangement relates solely to the covered fund in which the banking entity or any affiliate has acquired an ownership interest pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) and such compensation arrangement provides that any losses incurred by the banking entity on such ownership interest will be offset by corresponding decreases in amounts payable under such compensation arrangement.
(b)
Certain permitted covered fund activities and investments outside of the United States.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 248.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to the acquisition or retention of any ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a covered fund by a banking entity only if:
(i) The banking entity is not organized or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States;
(ii) The activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act;
(iii) No ownership interest in the covered fund is offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States; and
(iv) The activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States.
(2) An activity or investment by the banking entity is pursuant to paragraph (9) or (13) of section 4(c) of the BHC Act for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section only if:
(i) The activity or investment is conducted in accordance with the requirements of this section; and
(ii)(A) With respect to a banking entity that is a foreign banking organization, the banking entity meets the qualifying foreign banking organization requirements of section 211.23(a), (c) or (e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.23(a), (c) or (e)), as applicable; or
(B) With respect to a banking entity that is not a foreign banking organization, the banking entity is not organized under the laws of the United States or of one or more States and the banking entity, on a fully-consolidated basis, meets at least two of the following requirements:
(
1
) Total assets of the banking entity held outside of the United States exceed total assets of the banking entity held in the United States;
(
2
) Total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceed total revenues derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States; or
(
3
) Total net income derived from the business of the banking entity outside of the United States exceeds total net income derived from the business of the banking entity in the United States.
(3) An ownership interest in a covered fund is not offered for sale or sold to a resident of the United States for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section only if it is not sold and has not been sold pursuant to an offering that targets residents of the United States in which the banking entity or any affiliate of the banking entity participates. If the banking entity or an affiliate sponsors or serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor to a covered fund, then the banking entity or affiliate will be deemed for purposes of this paragraph (b)(3) to participate in any offer or sale by the covered fund of ownership interests in the covered fund.
(4) An activity or investment occurs solely outside of the United States for purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section only if:
(i) The banking entity acting as sponsor, or engaging as principal in the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in the covered fund, is not itself, and is not controlled directly or indirectly by, a banking entity that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State;
(ii) The banking entity (including relevant personnel) that makes the decision to acquire or retain the ownership interest or act as sponsor to the covered fund is not located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(iii) The investment or sponsorship, including any transaction arising from risk-mitigating hedging related to an ownership interest, is not accounted for as principal directly or indirectly on a consolidated basis by any branch or affiliate that is located in the United States or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State.
(5) For purposes of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign bank, or any subsidiary thereof, is located in the United States; however, a foreign bank of which that branch, agency, or subsidiary is a part is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operation of the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(c)
Permitted covered fund interests and activities by a regulated insurance company.
The prohibition contained in § 248.10(a) of this subpart does not apply to the acquisition or retention by an insurance company, or an affiliate thereof, of any ownership interest in, or the sponsorship of, a covered fund only if:
(1) The insurance company or its affiliate acquires and retains the ownership interest solely for the general account of the insurance company or for one or more separate accounts established by the insurance company;
(2) The acquisition and retention of the ownership interest is conducted in compliance with, and subject to, the
insurance company investment laws and regulations of the State or jurisdiction in which such insurance company is domiciled; and
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agencies, after consultation with the Financial Stability Oversight Council and the relevant insurance commissioners of the States and foreign jurisdictions, as appropriate, have not jointly determined, after notice and comment, that a particular law or regulation described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section is insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the banking entity, or the financial stability of the United States.
(d)
Permitted covered fund activities and investments of qualifying foreign excluded funds.
(1) The prohibition contained in § 248.10(a) does not apply to a qualifying foreign excluded fund.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (d), a qualifying foreign excluded fund means a banking entity that:
(i) Is organized or established outside the United States, and the ownership interests of which are offered and sold solely outside the United States;
(ii)(A) Would be a covered fund if the entity were organized or established in the United States, or
(B) Is, or holds itself out as being, an entity or arrangement that raises money from investors primarily for the purpose of investing in financial instruments for resale or other disposition or otherwise trading in financial instruments;
(iii) Would not otherwise be a banking entity except by virtue of the acquisition or retention of an ownership interest in, sponsorship of, or relationship with the entity, by another banking entity that meets the following:
(A) The banking entity is not organized, or directly or indirectly controlled by a banking entity that is organized, under the laws of the United States or of any State; and
(B) The banking entity's acquisition of an ownership interest in or sponsorship of the fund by the foreign banking entity meets the requirements for permitted covered fund activities and investments solely outside the United States, as provided in § 248.13(b);
(iv) Is established and operated as part of a bona fide asset management business; and
(v) Is not operated in a manner that enables the banking entity that sponsors or controls the qualifying foreign excluded fund, or any of its affiliates, to evade the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62136, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46508, July 31, 2020]
§ 248.14
Limitations on relationships with a covered fund.
(a)
Relationships with a covered fund.
(1) Except as provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, no banking entity that serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or sponsor to a covered fund, that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 248.11 of this subpart, or that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § 248.11(b) of this subpart, and no affiliate of such entity, may enter into a transaction with the covered fund, or with any other covered fund that is controlled by such covered fund, that would be a covered transaction as defined in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c(b)(7)), as if such banking entity and the affiliate thereof were a member bank and the covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a banking entity may:
(i) Acquire and retain any ownership interest in a covered fund in accordance with the requirements of § 248.11, § 248.12, or § 248.13;
(ii) Enter into any prime brokerage transaction with any covered fund in which a covered fund managed, sponsored, or advised by such banking entity (or an affiliate thereof) has taken an ownership interest, if:
(A) The banking entity is in compliance with each of the limitations set forth in § 248.11 of this subpart with respect to a covered fund organized and offered by such banking entity (or an affiliate thereof);
(B) The chief executive officer (or equivalent officer) of the banking entity certifies in writing annually no later than March 31 to the Board (with
a duty to update the certification if the information in the certification materially changes) that the banking entity does not, directly or indirectly, guarantee, assume, or otherwise insure the obligations or performance of the covered fund or of any covered fund in which such covered fund invests; and
(C) The Board has not determined that such transaction is inconsistent with the safe and sound operation and condition of the banking entity; and
(iii) Enter into a transaction with a covered fund that would be an exempt covered transaction under 12 U.S.C. 371c(d) or § 223.42 of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42) subject to the limitations specified under 12 U.S.C. 371c(d) or § 223.42 of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42), as applicable,
(iv) Enter into a riskless principal transaction with a covered fund; and
(v) Extend credit to or purchase assets from a covered fund, provided:
(A) Each extension of credit or purchase of assets is in the ordinary course of business in connection with payment transactions; settlement services; or futures, derivatives, and securities clearing;
(B) Each extension of credit is repaid, sold, or terminated by the end of five business days; and
(C) The banking entity making each extension of credit meets the requirements of § 223.42(l)(1)(i) and (ii) of the Board's Regulation W (12 CFR 223.42(l)(1)(i) and(ii)), as if the extension of credit was an intraday extension of credit, regardless of the duration of the extension of credit.
(3) Any transaction or activity permitted under paragraphs (a)(2)(iii), (iv) or (v) must comply with the limitations in § 248.15.
(b)
Restrictions on transactions with covered funds.
A banking entity that serves, directly or indirectly, as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor, or sponsor to a covered fund, or that organizes and offers a covered fund pursuant to § 248.11 of this subpart, or that continues to hold an ownership interest in accordance with § 248.11(b) of this subpart, shall be subject to section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1), as if such banking entity were a member bank and such covered fund were an affiliate thereof.
(c)
Restrictions on other permitted transactions.
Any transaction permitted under paragraphs (a)(2)(ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section shall be subject to section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c-1) as if the counterparty were an affiliate of the banking entity under section 23B.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62137, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46509, July 31, 2020]
§ 248.15
Other limitations on permitted covered fund activities.
(a) No transaction, class of transactions, or activity may be deemed permissible under §§ 248.11 through 248.13 of this subpart if the transaction, class of transactions, or activity would:
(1) Involve or result in a material conflict of interest between the banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties;
(2) Result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure by the banking entity to a high-risk asset or a high-risk trading strategy; or
(3) Pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the banking entity or to the financial stability of the United States.
(b)
Definition of material conflict of interest.
(1) For purposes of this section, a material conflict of interest between a banking entity and its clients, customers, or counterparties exists if the banking entity engages in any transaction, class of transactions, or activity that would involve or result in the banking entity's interests being materially adverse to the interests of its client, customer, or counterparty with respect to such transaction, class of transactions, or activity, and the banking entity has not taken at least one of the actions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) Prior to effecting the specific transaction or class or type of transactions, or engaging in the specific activity, the banking entity:
(i)
Timely and effective disclosure.
(A) Has made clear, timely, and effective disclosure of the conflict of interest, together with other necessary information, in reasonable detail and in a manner sufficient to permit a reasonable
client, customer, or counterparty to meaningfully understand the conflict of interest; and
(B) Such disclosure is made in a manner that provides the client, customer, or counterparty the opportunity to negate, or substantially mitigate, any materially adverse effect on the client, customer, or counterparty created by the conflict of interest; or
(ii)
Information barriers.
Has established, maintained, and enforced information barriers that are memorialized in written policies and procedures, such as physical separation of personnel, or functions, or limitations on types of activity, that are reasonably designed, taking into consideration the nature of the banking entity's business, to prevent the conflict of interest from involving or resulting in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty. A banking entity may not rely on such information barriers if, in the case of any specific transaction, class or type of transactions or activity, the banking entity knows or should reasonably know that, notwithstanding the banking entity's establishment of information barriers, the conflict of interest may involve or result in a materially adverse effect on a client, customer, or counterparty.
(c)
Definition of high-risk asset and high-risk trading strategy.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
High-risk asset
means an asset or group of related assets that would, if held by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
(2)
High-risk trading strategy
means a trading strategy that would, if engaged in by a banking entity, significantly increase the likelihood that the banking entity would incur a substantial financial loss or would pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
§ 248.16
Ownership of interests in and sponsorship of issuers of certain collateralized debt obligations backed by trust-preferred securities.
(a) The prohibition contained in § 248.10(a)(1) does not apply to the ownership by a banking entity of an interest in, or sponsorship of, any issuer if:
(1) The issuer was established, and the interest was issued, before May 19, 2010;
(2) The banking entity reasonably believes that the offering proceeds received by the issuer were invested primarily in Qualifying TruPS Collateral; and
(3) The banking entity acquired such interest on or before December 10, 2013 (or acquired such interest in connection with a merger with or acquisition of a banking entity that acquired the interest on or before December 10, 2013).
(b) For purposes of this § 248.16,
Qualifying TruPS Collateral
shall mean any trust preferred security or subordinated debt instrument issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a depository institution holding company that, as of the end of any reporting period within 12 months immediately preceding the issuance of such trust preferred security or subordinated debt instrument, had total consolidated assets of less than $15,000,000,000 or issued prior to May 19, 2010 by a mutual holding company.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(3) of this section, a banking entity may act as a market maker with respect to the interests of an issuer described in paragraph (a) of this section in accordance with the applicable provisions of §§ 248.4 and 248.11.
(d) Without limiting the applicability of paragraph (a) of this section, the Board, the FDIC and the OCC will make public a non-exclusive list of issuers that meet the requirements of paragraph (a). A banking entity may rely on the list published by the Board, the FDIC and the OCC.
[79 FR 5227, 5228, Jan. 31, 2014]
§§ 248.17-248.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Compliance Program Requirement; Violations
§ 248.20
Program for compliance; reporting.
(a)
Program requirement.
Each banking entity (other than a banking entity with limited trading assets and liabilities or a qualifying foreign excluded fund under § 248.6(f) or § 248.13(d)) shall
develop and provide for the continued administration of a compliance program reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the prohibitions and restrictions on proprietary trading and covered fund activities and investments set forth in section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. The terms, scope, and detail of the compliance program shall be appropriate for the types, size, scope, and complexity of activities and business structure of the banking entity.
(b)
Banking entities with significant trading assets and liabilities.
With respect to a banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities, the compliance program required by paragraph (a) of this section, at a minimum, shall include:
(1) Written policies and procedures reasonably designed to document, describe, monitor and limit trading activities subject to subpart B (including those permitted under §§ 248.3 to 248.6 of subpart B), including setting, monitoring and managing required limits set out in §§ 2484 and 248.5, and activities and investments with respect to a covered fund subject to subpart C (including those permitted under §§ 248.11 through 248.14 of subpart C) conducted by the banking entity to ensure that all activities and investments conducted by the banking entity that are subject to section 13 of the BHC Act and this part comply with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(2) A system of internal controls reasonably designed to monitor compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to prevent the occurrence of activities or investments that are prohibited by section 13 of the BHC Act and this part;
(3) A management framework that clearly delineates responsibility and accountability for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and includes appropriate management review of trading limits, strategies, hedging activities, investments, incentive compensation and other matters identified in this part or by management as requiring attention;
(4) Independent testing and audit of the effectiveness of the compliance program conducted periodically by qualified personnel of the banking entity or by a qualified outside party;
(5) Training for trading personnel and managers, as well as other appropriate personnel, to effectively implement and enforce the compliance program; and
(6) Records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, which a banking entity must promptly provide to the Board upon request and retain for a period of no less than 5 years or such longer period as required by the Board.
(c)
CEO attestation.
The CEO of a banking entity that has significant trading assets and liabilities must, based on a review by the CEO of the banking entity, attest in writing to the Board, each year no later than March 31, that the banking entity has in place processes to establish, maintain, enforce, review, test and modify the compliance program required by paragraph (b) of this section in a manner reasonably designed to achieve compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. In the case of a U.S. branch or agency of a foreign banking entity, the attestation may be provided for the entire U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity by the senior management officer of the U.S. operations of the foreign banking entity who is located in the United States.
(d)
Reporting requirements under appendix A to this part.
(1) A banking entity (other than a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 248.6(f) or 248.13(d)) engaged in proprietary trading activity permitted under subpart B shall comply with the reporting requirements described in appendix A to this part, if:
(i) The banking entity has significant trading assets and liabilities; or
(ii) The Board notifies the banking entity in writing that it must satisfy the reporting requirements contained in appendix A to this part.
(2) Frequency of reporting: Unless the Board notifies the banking entity in writing that it must report on a different basis, a banking entity subject to appendix A to this part shall report the information required by appendix A for each quarter within 30 days of the end of the quarter.
(e)
Additional documentation for covered funds.
A banking entity with significant trading assets and liabilities (other than a qualifying foreign excluded fund under section 248.6(f) or 248.13(d)) shall maintain records that include:
(1) Documentation of the exclusions or exemptions other than sections 3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 relied on by each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) in determining that such fund is not a covered fund;
(2) For each fund sponsored by the banking entity (including all subsidiaries and affiliates) for which the banking entity relies on one or more of the exclusions from the definition of covered fund provided by § 248.10(c)(1), 248.10(c)(5), 248.10(c)(8), 248.10(c)(9), or 248.10(c)(10) of subpart C, documentation supporting the banking entity's determination that the fund is not a covered fund pursuant to one or more of those exclusions;
(3) For each seeding vehicle described in § 248.10(c)(12)(i) or (iii) of subpart C that will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company, a written plan documenting the banking entity's determination that the seeding vehicle will become a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company; the period of time during which the vehicle will operate as a seeding vehicle; and the banking entity's plan to market the vehicle to third-party investors and convert it into a registered investment company or SEC-regulated business development company within the time period specified in § 248.12(a)(2)(i)(B) of subpart C;
(4) For any banking entity that is, or is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is, located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State, if the aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds that are described in § 248.10(c)(1) of subpart C owned by such banking entity (including ownership interests owned by any affiliate that is controlled directly or indirectly by a banking entity that is located in or organized under the laws of the United States or of any State) exceeds $50 million at the end of two or more consecutive calendar quarters, beginning with the next succeeding calendar quarter, documentation of the value of the ownership interests owned by the banking entity (and such affiliates) in each foreign public fund and each jurisdiction in which any such foreign public fund is organized, calculated as of the end of each calendar quarter, which documentation must continue until the banking entity's aggregate amount of ownership interests in foreign public funds is below $50 million for two consecutive calendar quarters; and
(5) For purposes of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, a U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary of a foreign banking entity is located in the United States; however, the foreign bank that operates or controls that branch, agency, or subsidiary is not considered to be located in the United States solely by virtue of operating or controlling the U.S. branch, agency, or subsidiary.
(f)
Simplified programs for less active banking entities
—(1)
Banking entities with no covered activities.
A banking entity that does not engage in activities or investments pursuant to subpart B or subpart C (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to § 248.6(a) of subpart B) may satisfy the requirements of this section by establishing the required compliance program prior to becoming engaged in such activities or making such investments (other than trading activities permitted pursuant to § 248.6(a) of subpart B).
(2)
Banking entities with moderate trading assets and liabilities.
A banking entity with moderate trading assets and liabilities may satisfy the requirements of this section by including in its existing compliance policies and procedures appropriate references to the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and adjustments as appropriate given the activities, size, scope, and complexity of the banking entity.
(g)
Rebuttable presumption of compliance for banking entities with limited trading assets and liabilities
—(1)
Rebuttable presumption.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, a banking entity with limited trading assets and liabilities shall be presumed to be compliant with subpart B and subpart C of this part and shall have no obligation
to demonstrate compliance with this part on an ongoing basis.
(2)
Rebuttal of presumption.
If upon examination or audit, the Board determines that the banking entity has engaged in proprietary trading or covered fund activities that are otherwise prohibited under subpart B or subpart C of this part, the Board may require the banking entity to be treated under this part as if it did not have limited trading assets and liabilities. The Board's rebuttal of the presumption in this paragraph must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(h)
Reservation of authority.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the Board retains its authority to require a banking entity without significant trading assets and liabilities to apply any requirements of this part that would otherwise apply if the banking entity had significant or moderate trading assets and liabilities if the Board determines that the size or complexity of the banking entity's trading or investment activities, or the risk of evasion of subpart B or subpart C of this part, does not warrant a presumption of compliance under paragraph (g) of this section or treatment as a banking entity with moderate trading assets and liabilities, as applicable. The Board's exercise of this reservation of authority must be made in accordance with the notice and response procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.
(i)
Notice and response procedures
—(1)
Notice.
The Board will notify the banking entity in writing of any determination requiring notice under this part and will provide an explanation of the determination.
(2)
Response.
The banking entity may respond to any or all items in the notice described in paragraph (i)(1) of this section. The response should include any matters that the banking entity would have the Board consider in deciding whether to make the determination. The response must be in writing and delivered to the designated Board official within 30 days after the date on which the banking entity received the notice. The Board may shorten the time period when, in the opinion of the Board, the activities or condition of the banking entity so requires, provided that the banking entity is informed of the time period at the time of notice, or with the consent of the banking entity. In its discretion, the Board may extend the time period for good cause.
(3)
Waiver.
Failure to respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by the Board shall constitute a waiver of any objections to the Board's determination.
(4)
Decision.
The Board will notify the banking entity of the decision in writing. The notice will include an explanation of the decision.
[79 FR 5779, 5804, Jan. 31, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 62137, Nov. 14, 2019; 85 FR 46509, July 31, 2020]
§ 248.21
Termination of activities or investments; penalties for violations.
(a) Any banking entity that engages in an activity or makes an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, or acts in a manner that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, including through an abuse of any activity or investment permitted under subparts B or C, or otherwise violates the restrictions and requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, shall, upon discovery, promptly terminate the activity and, as relevant, dispose of the investment.
(b) Whenever the Board finds reasonable cause to believe any banking entity has engaged in an activity or made an investment in violation of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, or engaged in any activity or made any investment that functions as an evasion of the requirements of section 13 of the BHC Act or this part, the Board may take any action permitted by law to enforce compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part, including directing the banking entity to restrict, limit, or terminate any or all activities under this part and dispose of any investment.
Pt. 248, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 248—Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements for Covered Trading Activities

# I. Purpose
a. This appendix sets forth reporting and recordkeeping requirements that certain banking entities must satisfy in connection with the restrictions on proprietary trading set forth in subpart B (“proprietary trading restrictions”). Pursuant to § 248.20(d), this appendix applies to a banking entity that, together with its affiliates and subsidiaries, has significant trading assets and liabilities. These entities are required to (i) furnish periodic reports to the Board regarding a variety of quantitative measurements of their covered trading activities, which vary depending on the scope and size of covered trading activities, and (ii) create and maintain records documenting the preparation and content of these reports. The requirements of this appendix must be incorporated into the banking entity's internal compliance program under § 248.20.
b. The purpose of this appendix is to assist banking entities and the Board in:
(1) Better understanding and evaluating the scope, type, and profile of the banking entity's covered trading activities;
(2) Monitoring the banking entity's covered trading activities;
(3) Identifying covered trading activities that warrant further review or examination by the banking entity to verify compliance with the proprietary trading restrictions;
(4) Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks engaged in market making-related activities subject to § 248.4(b) are consistent with the requirements governing permitted market making-related activities;
(5) Evaluating whether the covered trading activities of trading desks that are engaged in permitted trading activity subject to § 248.4, 248.5, or 248.6(a)-(b) (
i.e.,
underwriting and market making-related activity, risk-mitigating hedging, or trading in certain government obligations) are consistent with the requirement that such activity not result, directly or indirectly, in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies;
(6) Identifying the profile of particular covered trading activities of the banking entity, and the individual trading desks of the banking entity, to help establish the appropriate frequency and scope of examination by Board of such activities; and
(7) Assessing and addressing the risks associated with the banking entity's covered trading activities.
c. Information that must be furnished pursuant to this appendix is not intended to serve as a dispositive tool for the identification of permissible or impermissible activities.
d. In addition to the quantitative measurements required in this appendix, a banking entity may need to develop and implement other quantitative measurements in order to effectively monitor its covered trading activities for compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part and to have an effective compliance program, as required by § 248.20. The effectiveness of particular quantitative measurements may differ based on the profile of the banking entity's businesses in general and, more specifically, of the particular trading desk, including types of instruments traded, trading activities and strategies, and history and experience (e.g., whether the trading desk is an established, successful market maker or a new entrant to a competitive market). In all cases, banking entities must ensure that they have robust measures in place to identify and monitor the risks taken in their trading activities, to ensure that the activities are within risk tolerances established by the banking entity, and to monitor and examine for compliance with the proprietary trading restrictions in this part.
e. On an ongoing basis, banking entities must carefully monitor, review, and evaluate all furnished quantitative measurements, as well as any others that they choose to utilize in order to maintain compliance with section 13 of the BHC Act and this part. All measurement results that indicate a heightened risk of impermissible proprietary trading, including with respect to otherwise-permitted activities under § 248.4 through 248.6(a)-(b), or that result in a material exposure to high-risk assets or high-risk trading strategies, must be escalated within the banking entity for review, further analysis, explanation to Board, and remediation, where appropriate. The quantitative measurements discussed in this appendix should be helpful to banking entities in identifying and managing the risks related to their covered trading activities.

# II. Definitions
The terms used in this appendix have the same meanings as set forth in § 248.2 and § 248.3. In addition, for purposes of this appendix, the following definitions apply:
Applicability
identifies the trading desks for which a banking entity is required to calculate and report a particular quantitative measurement based on the type of covered trading activity conducted by the trading desk.
Calculation period
means the period of time for which a particular quantitative measurement must be calculated.
Comprehensive profit
and loss means the net profit or loss of a trading desk's material
sources of trading revenue over a specific period of time, including, for example, any increase or decrease in the market value of a trading desk's holdings, dividend income, and interest income and expense.
Covered trading activity
means trading conducted by a trading desk under § 248.4, § 248.5, § 248.6(a), or § 248.6(b). A banking entity may include in its covered trading activity trading conducted under § 248.3(d), § 248.6(c), § 248.6(d) or § 248.6(e).
Measurement frequency
means the frequency with which a particular quantitative metric must be calculated and recorded.
Trading day
means a calendar day on which a trading desk is open for trading.

# III. Reporting and Recordkeeping

# a. Scope of Required Reporting
1. Quantitative measurements. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 248.20 must furnish the following quantitative measurements, as applicable, for each trading desk of the banking entity engaged in covered trading activities and calculate these quantitative measurements in accordance with this appendix:
i. Internal Limits and Usage;
ii. Value-at-Risk;
iii. Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution;
iv. Positions; and
v. Transaction Volumes.
2. Trading desk information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 248.20 must provide certain descriptive information, as further described in this appendix, regarding each trading desk engaged in covered trading activities.
3. Quantitative measurements identifying information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 248.20 must provide certain identifying and descriptive information, as further described in this appendix, regarding its quantitative measurements.
4. Narrative statement. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 248.20 may provide an optional narrative statement, as further described in this appendix.
5. File identifying information. Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 248.20 must provide file identifying information in each submission to the Board pursuant to this appendix, including the name of the banking entity, the RSSD ID assigned to the top-tier banking entity by the Board, and identification of the reporting period and creation date and time.

# b. Trading Desk Information
1. Each banking entity must provide descriptive information regarding each trading desk engaged in covered trading activities, including:
i. Name of the trading desk used internally by the banking entity and a unique identification label for the trading desk;
ii. Identification of each type of covered trading activity in which the trading desk is engaged;
iii. Brief description of the general strategy of the trading desk;
v. A list identifying each Agency receiving the submission of the trading desk;
2. Indication of whether each calendar date is a trading day or not a trading day for the trading desk; and
3. Currency reported and daily currency conversion rate.

# c. Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information
Each banking entity must provide the following information regarding the quantitative measurements:
1. An Internal Limits Information Schedule that provides identifying and descriptive information for each limit reported pursuant to the Internal Limits and Usage quantitative measurement, including the name of the limit, a unique identification label for the limit, a description of the limit, the unit of measurement for the limit, the type of limit, and identification of the corresponding risk factor attribution in the particular case that the limit type is a limit on a risk factor sensitivity and profit and loss attribution to the same risk factor is reported; and
2. A Risk Factor Attribution Information Schedule that provides identifying and descriptive information for each risk factor attribution reported pursuant to the Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution quantitative measurement, including the name of the risk factor or other factor, a unique identification label for the risk factor or other factor, a description of the risk factor or other factor, and the risk factor or other factor's change unit.

# d. Narrative Statement
Each banking entity made subject to this appendix by § 248.20 may submit in a separate electronic document a Narrative Statement to the Board with any information the banking entity views as relevant for assessing the information reported. The Narrative Statement may include further description of or changes to calculation methods, identification of material events, description of and reasons for changes in the banking entity's trading desk structure or trading desk strategies, and when any such changes occurred.

# e. Frequency and Method of Required Calculation and Reporting
A banking entity must calculate any applicable quantitative measurement for each trading day. A banking entity must report
the Trading Desk Information, the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information, and each applicable quantitative measurement electronically to the Board on the reporting schedule established in § 248.20 unless otherwise requested by the Board. A banking entity must report the Trading Desk Information, the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information, and each applicable quantitative measurement to the Board in accordance with the XML Schema specified and published on the Board's website.

# f. Recordkeeping
A banking entity must, for any quantitative measurement furnished to the Board pursuant to this appendix and § 248.20(d), create and maintain records documenting the preparation and content of these reports, as well as such information as is necessary to permit the Board to verify the accuracy of such reports, for a period of five years from the end of the calendar year for which the measurement was taken. A banking entity must retain the Narrative Statement, the Trading Desk Information, and the Quantitative Measurements Identifying Information for a period of five years from the end of the calendar year for which the information was reported to the Board.

# IV. Quantitative Measurements

# a. Risk-Management Measurements

# 1. Internal Limits and Usage
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Internal Limits are the constraints that define the amount of risk and the positions that a trading desk is permitted to take at a point in time, as defined by the banking entity for a specific trading desk. Usage represents the value of the trading desk's risk or positions that are accounted for by the current activity of the desk. Internal limits and their usage are key compliance and risk management tools used to control and monitor risk taking and include, but are not limited to, the limits set out in §§ 248.4 and 248.5. A trading desk's risk limits, commonly including a limit on “Value-at-Risk,” are useful in the broader context of the trading desk's overall activities, particularly for the market making activities under § 248.4(b) and hedging activity under § 248.5. Accordingly, the limits required under §§ 248.4(b)(2)(iii)(C) and 248.5(b)(1)(i)(A) must meet the applicable requirements under §§ 248.4(b)(2)(iii)(C) and 248.5(b)(1)(i)(A) and also must include appropriate metrics for the trading desk limits including, at a minimum, “Value-at-Risk” except to the extent the “Value-at-Risk” metric is demonstrably ineffective for measuring and monitoring the risks of a trading desk based on the types of positions traded by, and risk exposures of, that desk.
A. A banking entity must provide the following information for each limit reported pursuant to this quantitative measurement: The unique identification label for the limit reported in the Internal Limits Information Schedule, the limit size (distinguishing between an upper and a lower limit), and the value of usage of the limit.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# 2. Value-at-Risk
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) is the measurement of the risk of future financial loss in the value of a trading desk's aggregated positions at the ninety-nine percent confidence level over a one-day period, based on current market conditions.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.

# b. Source-of-Revenue Measurements

# 1. Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Comprehensive Profit and Loss Attribution is an analysis that attributes the daily fluctuation in the value of a trading desk's positions to various sources. First, the daily profit and loss of the aggregated positions is divided into two categories: (i) Profit and loss attributable to a trading desk's existing positions that were also positions held by the trading desk as of the end of the prior day (“existing positions”); and (ii) profit and loss attributable to new positions resulting from the current day's trading activity (“new positions”).
A. The comprehensive profit and loss associated with existing positions must reflect changes in the value of these positions on the applicable day. The comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions must be further attributed, as applicable, to (i) changes in the specific risk factors and other factors that are monitored and managed as part of the trading desk's overall risk management policies and procedures; and (ii) any other applicable elements, such as cash flows, carry, changes in reserves, and the correction, cancellation, or exercise of a trade.
B. For the attribution of comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions to specific risk factors and other factors, a banking entity must provide the following information for the factors that explain the preponderance of the profit or loss changes due
to risk factor changes: The unique identification label for the risk factor or other factor listed in the Risk Factor Attribution Information Schedule, and the profit or loss due to the risk factor or other factor change.
C. The comprehensive profit and loss attributed to new positions must reflect commissions and fee income or expense and market gains or losses associated with transactions executed on the applicable day. New positions include purchases and sales of financial instruments and other assets/liabilities and negotiated amendments to existing positions. The comprehensive profit and loss from new positions may be reported in the aggregate and does not need to be further attributed to specific sources.
D. The portion of comprehensive profit and loss from existing positions that is not attributed to changes in specific risk factors and other factors must be allocated to a residual category. Significant unexplained profit and loss must be escalated for further investigation and analysis.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks engaged in covered trading activities.
c.
Positions and Transaction Volumes Measurements

# 1. Positions
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Positions is the value of securities and derivatives positions managed by the trading desk. For purposes of the Positions quantitative measurement, do not include in the Positions calculation for “securities” those securities that are also “derivatives,” as those terms are defined under subpart A; instead, report those securities that are also derivatives as “derivatives.”
1
A banking entity must separately report the trading desk's market value of long securities positions, short securities positions, derivatives receivables, and derivatives payables.
1
See
§ 248.2(h), (aa). For example, under this part, a security-based swap is both a “security” and a “derivative.” For purposes of the Positions quantitative measurement, security-based swaps are reported as derivatives rather than securities.
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks that rely on § 248.4(a) or § 248.4(b) to conduct underwriting activity or market-making-related activity, respectively.

# 2. Transaction Volumes
i.
Description:
For purposes of this appendix, Transaction Volumes measures three exclusive categories of covered trading activity conducted by a trading desk. A banking entity is required to report the value and number of security and derivative transactions conducted by the trading desk with: (i) Customers, excluding internal transactions; (ii) non-customers, excluding internal transactions; and (iii) trading desks and other organizational units where the transaction is booked into either the same banking entity or an affiliated banking entity. For securities, value means gross market value. For derivatives, value means gross notional value. For purposes of calculating the Transaction Volumes quantitative measurement, do not include in the Transaction Volumes calculation for “securities” those securities that are also “derivatives,” as those terms are defined under subpart A; instead, report those securities that are also derivatives as “derivatives.”
2
Further, for purposes of the Transaction Volumes quantitative measurement, a customer of a trading desk that relies on § 248.4(a) to conduct underwriting activity is a market participant identified in § 248.4(a)(7), and a customer of a trading desk that relies on § 248.4(b) to conduct market making-related activity is a market participant identified in § 248.4(b)(3).
2
See
§ 248.2(h), (aa).
ii.
Calculation Period:
One trading day.
iii.
Measurement Frequency:
Daily.
iv.
Applicability:
All trading desks that rely on § 248.4(a) or § 248.4(b) to conduct underwriting activity or market-making-related activity, respectively.
[84 FR 62138, Nov. 14, 2019]
Pt. 249

# PART 249—LIQUIDITY RISK MEASUREMENT, STANDARDS, AND MONITORING (REGULATION WW)

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
249.1
Purpose and applicability.
249.2
Reservation of authority.
249.3
Definitions.
249.4
Certain operational requirements.

# Subpart B—Liquidity Coverage Ratio
249.10
Liquidity coverage ratio.

# Subpart C—High-Quality Liquid Assets
249.20
High-quality liquid asset criteria.
249.21
High-quality liquid asset amount.
249.22
Requirements for eligible high-quality liquid assets.

# Subpart D—Total Net Cash Outflow
249.30
Total net cash outflow amount.
249.31
Determining maturity.
249.32
Outflow amounts.
249.33
Inflow amounts.
249.34
Cash flows related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.

# Subpart E—Liquidity Coverage Shortfall
249.40
Liquidity coverage shortfall: Supervisory framework.

# Subpart F—Transitions
249.50
Transitions.
Subparts G-I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—Disclosures
249.90
Timing, method and retention of disclosures.
249.91
Disclosure requirements.

# Subpart K—Net Stable Funding Ratio
249.100
Net stable funding ratio.
249.101
Determining maturity.
249.102
Rules of construction.
249.103
Calculation of available stable funding amount.
249.104
ASF factors.
249.105
Calculation of required stable funding amount.
249.106
RSF factors.
249.107
Calculation of NSFR derivatives amounts.
249.108
Funding related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
249.109
Rules for consolidation.

# Subpart L—Net Stable Funding Shortfall
249.110
NSFR shortfall: Supervisory framework.

# Subpart M—Transitions
249.120
Transitions.

# Subpart N—NSFR Public Disclosure
249.130
Timing, method, and retention of disclosures.
249.131
Disclosure requirements.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 248(a), 321-38a, 481-486, 1467a(g)(1), 1818, 1828, 1831p-1, 1831o-1, 1844(b), 5365, 5366, 5368; 12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.

# Source:
79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 249 appear at 79 FR 61539, Oct. 10, 2014.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 249.1
Purpose and applicability.
(a)
Purpose.
This part establishes a minimum liquidity standard and a minimum stable funding standard for certain Board-regulated institutions on a consolidated basis, as set forth herein.
(b)
Applicability.
(1) A Board-regulated institution is subject to the minimum liquidity standard and a minimum stable funding standard, and other requirements of this part if:
(i) It is a:
(A) Global systemically important BHC;
(B) GSIB depository institution;
(C) Category II Board-regulated institution;
(D) Category III Board-regulated institution; or
(E) Category IV Board-regulated institution with $50 billion or more in average weighted short-term wholesale funding;
(ii) It is a covered nonbank company; or
(iii) The Board has determined that application of this part is appropriate in light of the Board-regulated institution's asset size, level of complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, affiliation with foreign or domestic covered entities, or risk to the financial system.
(2) This part does not apply to:
(i) A bridge financial company as defined in 12 U.S.C. 5381(a)(3), or a subsidiary of a bridge financial company; or
(ii) A new depository institution or a bridge depository institution, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(i).
(3) In making a determination under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the Board will apply, as appropriate, notice and response procedures in the same manner and to the same extent as the notice and response procedures set forth in 12 CFR 263.202.
(c)
Covered nonbank companies.
The Board will establish a minimum liquidity standard and minimum stable funding standard and other requirements for a designated company under this part by rule or order. In establishing such standards, the Board will consider the factors set forth in sections 165(a)(2) and (b)(3) of the Dodd-Frank Act and may tailor the application of the requirements of this part to the designated company based on the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration,
interconnectedness, mix of the activities of the designated company, or any other risk-related factor that the Board determines is appropriate.
[86 FR 9210, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 249.2
Reservation of authority.
(a) The Board may require a Board-regulated institution to hold an amount of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) greater than otherwise required under this part, or to take any other measure to improve the Board-regulated institution's liquidity risk profile, if the Board determines that the Board-regulated institution's liquidity requirements as calculated under this part are not commensurate with the Board-regulated institution's liquidity risks. In making determinations under this section, the Board will apply notice and response procedures as set forth in 12 CFR 263.202.
(b) The Board may require a Board-regulated institution to maintain an amount of available stable funding greater than otherwise required under this part, or to take any other measure to improve the Board-regulated institution's stable funding, if the Board determines that the Board-regulated institution's stable funding requirements as calculated under this part are not commensurate with the Board-regulated institution's funding risks. In making determinations under this section, the Board will apply notice and response procedures as set forth in 12 CFR 263.202.
(c) Nothing in this part limits the authority of the Board under any other provision of law or regulation to take supervisory or enforcement action, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, deficient liquidity levels, deficient stable funding levels, or violations of law.
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 9211, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 249.3
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Affiliated depository institution
means with respect to a Board-regulated institution that is a depository institution, another depository institution that is a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company of which the Board-regulated institution is also a consolidated subsidiary.
Asset exchange
means a transaction in which, as of the calculation date, the counterparties have previously exchanged non-cash assets, and have each agreed to return such assets to each other at a future date. Asset exchanges do not include secured funding and secured lending transactions.
Average weighted short-term wholesale funding
means the average of the weighted short-term wholesale funding for each of the four most recent calendar quarters as reported quarterly on the FR Y-15 or, if the Board-regulated institution has not filed the FR Y-15 for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, for the most recent quarter or averaged over the most recent quarters, as applicable.
Bank holding company
is defined in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
).
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Board-regulated institution
means a state member bank, covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company.
Brokered deposit
means any deposit held at the Board-regulated institution that is obtained, directly or indirectly, from or through the mediation or assistance of a deposit broker as that term is defined in section 29 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831f(g)) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's regulations.
Brokered reciprocal deposit
means a brokered deposit that a Board-regulated institution receives through a deposit placement network on a reciprocal basis, such that:
(1) For any deposit received, the Board-regulated institution (as agent for the depositors) places the same amount with other depository institutions through the network; and
(2) Each member of the network sets the interest rate to be paid on the entire amount of funds it places with other network members.
Calculation date
means, for subparts B through J of this part, any date on which a Board-regulated institution
calculates its liquidity coverage ratio under § 249.10, and for subparts K through N of this part, any date on which a Board-regulated institution calculates its net stable funding ratio under § 249.100.
Call Report
means the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income.
Carrying value
means, with respect to an asset, NSFR regulatory capital element, or NSFR liability, the value on the balance sheet of the Board-regulated institution, each as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Category II Board-regulated institution
means:
(1) A covered depository institution holding company that is identified as a Category II banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10;
(2) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is identified as a Category II banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5;
(3)(i) A state member bank that:
(A) Is a consolidated subsidiary of:
(
1
) A company described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition; or
(
2
) A depository institution that meets the criteria in paragraph (4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this definition; and
(B) That has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the state member bank's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, equal to $10 billion or more.
(ii) If the state member bank has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets is calculated based on its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable. After meeting the criteria under this paragraph (3), a state member bank continues to be a Category II Board-regulated institution until the state member bank has less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, or the state member bank is no longer a consolidated subsidiary of a company described in paragraph (3)(i)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this definition; or
(4) A state member bank that:
(i) Is not a subsidiary of a depository institution holding company; and
(ii)(A) Has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, equal to $700 billion or more. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets is calculated based on its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; or
(B) Has:
(
1
) Total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, of $100 billion or more but less than $700 billion. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; and
(
2
) Cross-jurisdictional activity, calculated based on the average of its cross-jurisdictional activity for the four most recent calendar quarters, of $75 billion or more. Cross-jurisdictional activity is the sum of cross-jurisdictional claims and cross-jurisdictional liabilities, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form.
(iii) After meeting the criteria in paragraphs (4)(i) and (ii) of this definition, a state member bank continues to be a Category II Board-regulated institution until the state member bank:
(A)(
1
) Has less than $700 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; and
(
2
) Has less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity for each of the four most recent calendar quarters. Cross-jurisdictional activity is the sum of cross-jurisdictional claims and
cross-jurisdictional liabilities, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form;
(B) Has less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(C) Is a GSIB depository institution.
Category III Board-regulated institution
means:
(1) A covered depository institution holding company that is identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10, as applicable;
(2) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5;
(3)(i) A state member bank that is:
(A) A consolidated subsidiary of:
(
1
) A company described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition; or
(
2
) A depository institution that meets the criteria in paragraph (4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this definition; and
(B) Has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the state member bank's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report, equal to $10 billion or more.
(ii) If the state member bank has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable. After meeting the criteria under this paragraph (3), a state member bank continues to be a Category III Board-regulated institution until the state member bank has less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, or the state member bank is no longer a consolidated subsidiary of a company described in paragraph (3)(i)(A)(
1
) or (
2
) of this definition; or
(4) A state member bank that:
(i) Is not a depository institution holding company; and
(ii)(A) Has total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets in the four most recent quarters as reported on the most recent Call Report, equal to $250 billion or more. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; or
(B) Has:
(
1
) Total consolidated assets, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets in the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the most recent Call Report, of $100 billion or more but less than $250 billion. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable; and
(
2
) At least one of the following in paragraphs (4)(ii)(B)(
2
)(
i
) through (
iii
) of this definition, each measured as the average of the four most recent calendar quarters, or if the depository institution has not filed the FR Y-9LP or equivalent reporting form, Call Report, or FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, as applicable, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, for the most recent quarter or the average of the most recent quarters, as applicable:
(
i
) Total nonbank assets, calculated in accordance with instructions to the FR Y-9LP or equivalent reporting form, equal to $75 billion or more;
(
ii
) Off-balance sheet exposure, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, minus the total consolidated assets of the depository institution, as reported on the Call Report, equal to $75 billion or more; or
(
iii
) Weighted short-term wholesale funding, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, equal to $75 billion or more.
(iii) After meeting the criteria in paragraphs (4)(i) and (ii) of this definition, a state member bank continues to
be a Category III Board-regulated institution until the state member bank:
(A)(
1
) Has less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(
2
) Has less than $75 billion in total nonbank assets, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9LP or equivalent reporting form, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(
3
) Has less than $75 billion in off-balance sheet exposure for each of the four most recent calendar quarters. Off-balance sheet exposure is a state member bank's total exposure, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, minus the total consolidated assets of the state member bank, as reported on the Call Report; and
(
4
) Has less than $75 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(B) Has less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(C) Is a Category II Board-regulated institution; or
(D) Is a GSIB depository institution.
Category IV Board-regulated institution
means:
(1) A covered depository institution holding company that is identified as a Category IV banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5 or 12 CFR 238.10, as applicable; or
(2) A U.S. intermediate holding company that is identified as a Category IV banking organization pursuant to 12 CFR 252.5.
Client pool security
means a security that is owned by a customer of the Board-regulated institution that is not an asset of the Board-regulated institution, regardless of a Board-regulated institution's hypothecation rights with respect to the security.
Collateralized deposit
means:
(1) A deposit of a public sector entity held at the Board-regulated institution that is required to be secured under applicable law by a lien on assets owned by the Board-regulated institution and that gives the depositor, as holder of the lien, priority over the assets in the event the Board-regulated institution enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding;
(2) A deposit of a fiduciary account awaiting investment or distribution held at the Board-regulated institution for which the Board-regulated institution is a fiduciary and is required under 12 CFR 9.10(b) (national banks), 12 CFR 150.300 through 150.320 (Federal savings associations), or applicable state law (state member and nonmember banks, and state savings associations) to set aside assets owned by the Board-regulated institution as security, which gives the depositor priority over the assets in the event the Board-regulated institution enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding; or
(3) A deposit of a fiduciary account awaiting investment or distribution held at the Board-regulated institution for which the Board-regulated institution's affiliated insured depository institution is a fiduciary and where the Board-regulated institution under 12 CFR 9.10(c) (national banks), 12 CFR 150.310 (Federal savings associations), or applicable state law (state member and nonmember banks, state savings associations) has set aside assets owned by the Board-regulated institution as security, which gives the depositor priority over the assets in the event the Board-regulated institution enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding.
Committed
means, with respect to a credit or liquidity facility, that under the terms of the facility, it is not unconditionally cancelable.
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, depository institution, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization.
Consolidated subsidiary
means a company that is consolidated on the balance sheet of a Board-regulated institution or other company under GAAP.
Controlled subsidiary
means, with respect to a company or a Board-regulated institution, a consolidated subsidiary or a company that otherwise meets the definition of “subsidiary” in section 2(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(d)).
Covered depository institution holding company
means a top-tier bank holding company or savings and loan holding company domiciled in the United States other than:
(1) A top-tier savings and loan holding company that is:
(i) A grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10(c)(9)(A) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1461
et seq.
); and
(ii) As of June 30 of the previous calendar year, derived 50 percent or more of its total consolidated assets or 50 percent of its total revenues on an enterprise-wide basis (as calculated under GAAP) from activities that are not financial in nature under section 4(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(k));
(2) A top-tier depository institution holding company that is an insurance underwriting company;
(3)(i) A top-tier depository institution holding company that, as of June 30 of the previous calendar year, held 25 percent or more of its total consolidated assets in subsidiaries that are insurance underwriting companies (other than assets associated with insurance for credit risk); and
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (3)(i) of this definition, the company must calculate its total consolidated assets in accordance with GAAP, or if the company does not calculate its total consolidated assets under GAAP for any regulatory purpose (including compliance with applicable securities laws), the company may estimate its total consolidated assets, subject to review and adjustment by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; or
(4) A U.S. intermediate holding company.
Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding
means a non-recourse loan that is extended as part of the Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility or Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility authorized by the Board pursuant to section 13(3) of the Federal Reserve Act.
1
1
The Money Market Mutual Fund Liquidity Facility was authorized on March 18, 2020, and the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility was authorized on April 6, 2020.
Covered nonbank company
means a designated company that the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has required by separate rule or order to comply with the requirements of 12 CFR part 249.
Credit facility
means a legally binding agreement to extend funds if requested at a future date, including a general working capital facility such as a revolving credit facility for general corporate or working capital purposes. A credit facility does not include a legally binding written agreement to extend funds at a future date to a counterparty that is made for the purpose of refinancing the debt of the counterparty when it is unable to obtain a primary or anticipated source of funding.
See liquidity facility.
Customer short position
means a legally binding written agreement pursuant to which the customer must deliver to the Board-regulated institution a non-cash asset that the customer has already sold.
Deposit
means “deposit” as defined in section 3(
l
) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(
l
)) or an equivalent liability of the Board-regulated institution in a jurisdiction outside of the United States.
Depository institution
is defined in section 3(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
Depository institution holding company
means a bank holding company or savings and loan holding company.
Deposit insurance
means deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
).
Derivative transaction
means a financial contract whose value is derived from the values of one or more underlying assets, reference rates, or indices of asset values or reference rates. Derivative contracts include interest rate derivative contracts, exchange rate derivative contracts, equity derivative
contracts, commodity derivative contracts, credit derivative contracts, forward contracts, and any other instrument that poses similar counterparty credit risks. Derivative contracts also include unsettled securities, commodities, and foreign currency exchange transactions with a contractual settlement or delivery lag that is longer than the lesser of the market standard for the particular instrument or five business days. A derivative does not include any identified banking product, as that term is defined in section 402(b) of the Legal Certainty for Bank Products Act of 2000 (7 U.S.C. 27(b)), that is subject to section 403(a) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 27a(a)).
Designated company
means a company that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323) shall be supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and for which such determination is still in effect.
Dodd-Frank Act
means the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).
Eligible HQLA
means a high-quality liquid asset that meets the requirements set forth in § 249.22.
Encumbered
means, with respect to an asset, that the asset:
(1) Is subject to legal, regulatory, contractual, or other restriction on the ability of the Board-regulated institution to monetize the asset; or
(2) Is pledged, explicitly or implicitly, to secure or to provide credit enhancement to any transaction, not including when the asset is pledged to a central bank or a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise where:
(i) Potential credit secured by the asset is not currently extended to the Board-regulated institution or its consolidated subsidiaries; and
(ii) The pledged asset is not required to support access to the payment services of a central bank.
Fair value
means fair value as determined under GAAP.
Financial sector entity
means an investment adviser, investment company, pension fund, non-regulated fund, regulated financial company, or identified company.
Foreign withdrawable reserves
means a Board-regulated institution's balances held by or on behalf of the Board-regulated institution at a foreign central bank that are not subject to restrictions on the Board-regulated institution's ability to use the reserves.
FR Y-9LP
means the Parent Company Only Financial Statements for Large Holding Companies.
FR Y-15
means the Systemic Risk Report.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Global systemically important BHC
means a bank holding company identified as a global systemically important BHC pursuant to 12 CFR 217.402.
GSIB depository institution
means a depository institution that is a consolidated subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC and has total consolidated assets equal to $10 billion or more, calculated based on the average of the depository institution's total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters as reported on the Call Report. If the depository institution has not filed the Call Report for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, total consolidated assets means its total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for the most recent calendar quarter or the average of the most recent calendar quarters, as applicable. After meeting the criteria under this definition, a depository institution continues to be a GSIB depository institution until the depository institution has less than $10 billion in total consolidated assets, as reported on the Call Report, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, or the depository institution is no longer a consolidated subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC.
High-quality liquid asset (HQLA)
means an asset that is a level 1 liquid asset, level 2A liquid asset, or level 2B liquid asset, in accordance with the criteria set forth in § 249.20.
HQLA amount
means the HQLA amount as calculated under § 249.21.
Identified company
means any company that the Board has determined should be treated for the purposes of
this part the same as a regulated financial company, investment company, non-regulated fund, pension fund, or investment adviser, based on activities similar in scope, nature, or operations to those entities.
Individual
means a natural person, and does not include a sole proprietorship.
Investment adviser
means a company registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
) or foreign equivalents of such company.
Investment company
means a person or company registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1
et seq.
) or foreign equivalents of such persons or companies.
Liquid and readily-marketable
means, with respect to a security, that the security is traded in an active secondary market with:
(1) More than two committed market makers;
(2) A large number of non-market maker participants on both the buying and selling sides of transactions;
(3) Timely and observable market prices; and
(4) A high trading volume.
Liquidity facility
means a legally binding written agreement to extend funds at a future date to a counterparty that is made for the purpose of refinancing the debt of the counterparty when it is unable to obtain a primary or anticipated source of funding. A liquidity facility includes an agreement to provide liquidity support to asset-backed commercial paper by lending to, or purchasing assets from, any structure, program or conduit in the event that funds are required to repay maturing asset-backed commercial paper. Liquidity facilities exclude facilities that are established solely for the purpose of general working capital, such as revolving credit facilities for general corporate or working capital purposes. If a facility has characteristics of both credit and liquidity facilities, the facility must be classified as a liquidity facility.
See credit facility.
Multilateral development bank
means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency, the International Finance Corporation, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, and any other entity that provides financing for national or regional development in which the U.S. government is a shareholder or contributing member or which the Board determines poses comparable risk.
Municipal obligation
means an obligation of:
(1) A state or any political subdivision thereof; or
(2) Any agency or instrumentality of a state or any political subdivision thereof.
Non-regulated fund
means any hedge fund or private equity fund whose investment adviser is required to file SEC Form PF (Reporting Form for Investment Advisers to Private Funds and Certain Commodity Pool Operators and Commodity Trading Advisors), other than a small business investment company as defined in section 102 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
).
Nonperforming exposure
means an exposure that is past due by more than 90 days or nonaccrual.
NSFR liability
means any liability or equity reported on a Board-regulated institution's balance sheet that is not an NSFR regulatory capital element.
NSFR regulatory capital element
means any capital element included in a Board-regulated institution's common equity tier 1 capital, additional tier 1 capital, and tier 2 capital, in each case as defined in § 217.20 of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217), prior to application of capital adjustments or deductions as set forth in § 217.22 of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217), excluding any debt or equity instrument that does not meet the criteria for additional tier 1 or tier 2 capital instruments in § 217.22 of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217) and is being phased out of tier 1 capital or tier 2
capital pursuant to subpart G of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217).
Operational deposit
means short-term unsecured wholesale funding that is a deposit, unsecured wholesale lending that is a deposit, or a collateralized deposit, in each case that meets the requirements of § 249.4(b) with respect to that deposit and is necessary for the provision of operational services as an independent third-party intermediary, agent, or administrator to the wholesale customer or counterparty providing the deposit.
Operational services
means the following services, provided they are performed as part of cash management, clearing, or custody services:
(1) Payment remittance;
(2) Administration of payments and cash flows related to the safekeeping of investment assets, not including the purchase or sale of assets;
(3) Payroll administration and control over the disbursement of funds;
(4) Transmission, reconciliation, and confirmation of payment orders;
(5) Daylight overdraft;
(6) Determination of intra-day and final settlement positions;
(7) Settlement of securities transactions;
(8) Transfer of capital distributions and recurring contractual payments;
(9) Customer subscriptions and redemptions;
(10) Scheduled distribution of customer funds;
(11) Escrow, funds transfer, stock transfer, and agency services, including payment and settlement services, payment of fees, taxes, and other expenses; and
(12) Collection and aggregation of funds.
Pension fund
means an employee benefit plan as defined in paragraphs (3) and (32) of section 3 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
), a “governmental plan” (as defined in 29 U.S.C. 1002(32)) that complies with the tax deferral qualification requirements provided in the Internal Revenue Code, or any similar employee benefit plan established under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction.
Public sector entity
means a state, local authority, or other governmental subdivision below the U.S. sovereign entity level.
Publicly traded
means, with respect to an equity security, that the equity security is traded on:
(1) Any exchange registered with the SEC as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f); or
(2) Any non-U.S.-based securities exchange that:
(i) Is registered with, or approved by, a national securities regulatory authority; and
(ii) Provides a liquid, two-way market for the security in question.
QMNA netting set
means a group of derivative transactions with a single counterparty that is subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and is netted under the qualifying master netting agreement.
Qualifying master netting agreement
means a written, legally enforceable agreement provided that:
(1) The agreement creates a single legal obligation for all individual transactions covered by the agreement upon an event of default following any stay permitted by paragraph (2) of this definition, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty;
(2) The agreement provides the Board-regulated institution the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default, including upon an event of receivership, conservatorship, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding, of the counterparty, provided that, in any such case:
(i) Any exercise of rights under the agreement will not be stayed or avoided under applicable law in the relevant jurisdictions, other than:
(A) In receivership, conservatorship, or resolution under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act, or under any similar insolvency law applicable to GSEs, or laws
of foreign jurisdictions that are substantially similar
2
to the U.S. laws referenced in this paragraph (2)(i)(A) in order to facilitate the orderly resolution of the defaulting counterparty;
2
The Board expects to evaluate jointly with the OCC and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation whether foreign special resolution regimes meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(B) Where the agreement is subject by its terms to, or incorporates, any of the laws referenced in paragraph (2)(i)(A) of this definition; and
(ii) The agreement may limit the right to accelerate, terminate, and close-out on a net basis all transactions under the agreement and to liquidate or set-off collateral promptly upon an event of default of the counterparty to the extent necessary for the counterparty to comply with the requirements of subpart I of the Board's Regulation YY (part 252 of this chapter), part 47 of this title, or part 382 of this title, as applicable;
Regulated financial company
means:
(1) A depository institution holding company or designated company;
(2) A company included in the organization chart of a depository institution holding company on the Form FR Y-6, as listed in the hierarchy report of the depository institution holding company produced by the National Information Center (NIC) website,
3
provided that the top-tier depository institution holding company is subject to a minimum liquidity standard under this part;
3
http://www.ffiec.gov/nicpubweb/nicweb/NicHome.aspx.
(3) A depository institution; foreign bank; credit union; industrial loan company, industrial bank, or other similar institution described in section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
); national bank, state member bank, or state non-member bank that is not a depository institution;
(4) An insurance company;
(5) A securities holding company as defined in section 618 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 1850a); broker or dealer registered with the SEC under section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o); futures commission merchant as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 1a); swap dealer as defined in section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a); or security-based swap dealer as defined in section 3 of the Securities Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c);
(6) A designated financial market utility, as defined in section 803 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5462);
(7) A U.S. intermediate holding company; and
(8) Any company not domiciled in the United States (or a political subdivision thereof) that is supervised and regulated in a manner similar to entities described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition (
e.g.,
a foreign banking organization, foreign insurance company, foreign securities broker or dealer or foreign financial market utility).
(9) A regulated financial company does not include:
(i) U.S. government-sponsored enterprises;
(ii) Small business investment companies, as defined in section 102 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
);
(iii) Entities designated as Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) under 12 U.S.C. 4701
et seq.
and 12 CFR part 1805; or
(iv) Central banks, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, or multilateral development banks.
Reserve Bank balances
means:
(1) Balances held in a master account of the Board-regulated institution at a Federal Reserve Bank, less any balances that are attributable to any respondent of the Board-regulated institution if the Board-regulated institution is a correspondent for a pass-through account as defined in section 204.2(l) of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.2(l));
(2) Balances held in a master account of a correspondent of the Board-regulated institution that are attributable to the Board-regulated institution if the Board-regulated institution is a respondent for a pass-through account as defined in section 204.2(l) of Regulation D;
(3) “Excess balances” of the Board-regulated institution as defined in section 204.2(z) of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.2(z)) that are maintained in an “excess balance account” as defined in section 204.2(aa) of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.2(aa)) if the Board-regulated institution is an excess balance account participant; or
(4) “Term deposits” of the Board-regulated institution as defined in section 204.2(dd) of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.2(dd)) if such term deposits are offered and maintained pursuant to terms and conditions that:
(i) Explicitly and contractually permit such term deposits to be withdrawn upon demand prior to the expiration of the term, or that
(ii) Permit such term deposits to be pledged as collateral for term or automatically-renewing overnight advances from the Federal Reserve Bank.
Retail customer or counterparty
means a customer or counterparty that is:
(1) An individual;
(2) A business customer, but solely if and to the extent that:
(i) The Board-regulated institution manages its transactions with the business customer, including deposits, unsecured funding, and credit facility and liquidity facility transactions, in the same way it manages its transactions with individuals;
(ii) Transactions with the business customer have liquidity risk characteristics that are similar to comparable transactions with individuals; and
(iii) The total aggregate funding raised from the business customer is less than $1.5 million; or
(3) A living or testamentary trust that:
(i) Is solely for the benefit of natural persons;
(ii) Does not have a corporate trustee; and
(iii) Terminates within 21 years and 10 months after the death of grantors or beneficiaries of the trust living on the effective date of the trust or within 25 years, if applicable under state law.
Retail deposit
means a demand or term deposit that is placed with the Board-regulated institution by a retail customer or counterparty, other than a brokered deposit.
Retail mortgage
means a mortgage that is primarily secured by a first or subsequent lien on one-to-four family residential property.
Savings and loan holding company
means a savings and loan holding company as defined in section 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a).
SEC
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Secured funding transaction
means any funding transaction that is subject to a legally binding agreement that gives rise to a cash obligation of the Board-regulated institution to a wholesale customer or counterparty that is secured under applicable law by a lien on securities or loans provided by the Board-regulated institution, which gives the wholesale customer or counterparty, as holder of the lien, priority over the securities or loans in the event the Board-regulated institution enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding. Secured funding transactions include repurchase transactions, securities lending transactions, other secured loans, and borrowings from a Federal Reserve Bank. Secured funding transactions do not include securities.
Secured lending transaction
means any lending transaction that is subject to a legally binding agreement that gives rise to a cash obligation of a wholesale customer or counterparty to the Board-regulated institution that is secured under applicable law by a lien on securities or loans provided by the wholesale customer or counterparty, which gives the Board-regulated institution, as holder of the lien, priority over the securities or loans in the event the counterparty enters into receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding. Secured lending transactions include reverse repurchase transactions and securities borrowing transactions. Secured lending transactions do not include securities.
Securities Exchange Act
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a
et seq.
).
Sovereign entity
means a central government (including the U.S. government) or an agency, department, ministry, or central bank of a central government.
Special purpose entity
means a company organized for a specific purpose, the activities of which are significantly limited to those appropriate to accomplish a specific purpose, and the structure of which is intended to isolate the credit risk of the special purpose entity.
Stable retail deposit
means a retail deposit that is entirely covered by deposit insurance and:
(1) Is held by the depositor in a transactional account; or
(2) The depositor that holds the account has another established relationship with the Board-regulated institution such as another deposit account, a loan, bill payment services, or any similar service or product provided to the depositor that the Board-regulated institution demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Board would make deposit withdrawal highly unlikely during a liquidity stress event.
State
means any state, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
State member bank
means a state bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System.
Structured security
means a security whose cash flow characteristics depend upon one or more indices or that has embedded forwards, options, or other derivatives or a security where an investor's investment return and the issuer's payment obligations are contingent on, or highly sensitive to, changes in the value of underlying assets, indices, interest rates, or cash flows.
Structured transaction
means a secured transaction in which repayment of obligations and other exposures to the transaction is largely derived, directly or indirectly, from the cash flow generated by the pool of assets that secures the obligations and other exposures to the transaction.
Sweep deposit
means a deposit held at the Board-regulated institution by a customer or counterparty through a contractual feature that automatically transfers to the Board-regulated institution from another regulated financial company at the close of each business day amounts identified under the agreement governing the account from which the amount is being transferred.
Two-way market
means a market where there are independent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a price reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined within one day and settled at that price within a relatively short time frame conforming to trade custom.
U.S. government-sponsored enterprise
means an entity established or chartered by the Federal government to serve public purposes specified by the United States Congress, but whose debt obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States government.
U.S. intermediate holding company
means a top-tier company that is required to be established pursuant to 12 CFR 252.153.
Unconditionally cancelable
means, with respect to a credit or liquidity facility, that a Board-regulated institution may, at any time, with or without cause, refuse to extend credit under the facility (to the extent permitted under applicable law).
Unsecured wholesale funding
means a liability or general obligation of the Board-regulated institution to a wholesale customer or counterparty that is not a secured funding transaction. Unsecured wholesale funding includes wholesale deposits. Unsecured wholesale funding does not include asset exchanges.
Unsecured wholesale lending
means a liability or general obligation of a wholesale customer or counterparty to the Board-regulated institution that is not a secured lending transaction or a security. Unsecured wholesale lending does not include asset exchanges.
Wholesale customer or counterparty
means a customer or counterparty that is not a retail customer or counterparty.
Wholesale deposit means
a demand or term deposit that is provided by a wholesale customer or counterparty.
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 78296, Dec. 30, 2014; 81 FR 21232, Apr. 11, 2016; 82 FR 42919, Sept. 12, 2017; 83 FR 44455, Aug. 31, 2018; 84 FR 59272, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 26841, May 6, 2020; 86 FR 9211, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 249.4
Certain operational requirements.
(a)
Qualifying master netting agreements.
In order to recognize an agreement as a qualifying master netting agreement as defined in § 249.3, a Board-regulated institution must:
(1) Conduct sufficient legal review to conclude with a well-founded basis (and maintain sufficient written documentation of that legal review) that:
(i) The agreement meets the requirements of the definition of qualifying master netting agreement in § 249.3; and
(ii) In the event of a legal challenge (including one resulting from default or from receivership, bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, resolution, or similar proceeding) the relevant judicial and administrative authorities would find the agreement to be legal, valid, binding, and enforceable under the law of the relevant jurisdictions; and
(2) Establish and maintain written procedures to monitor possible changes in relevant law and to ensure that the agreement continues to satisfy the requirements of the definition of qualifying master netting agreement in § 249.3.
(b)
Operational deposits.
In order to recognize a deposit as an operational deposit as defined in § 249.3:
(1) The related operational services must be performed pursuant to a legally binding written agreement, and:
(i) The termination of the agreement must be subject to a minimum 30 calendar-day notice period; or
(ii) As a result of termination of the agreement or transfer of services to a third-party provider, the customer providing the deposit would incur significant contractual termination costs or switching costs (switching costs include significant technology, administrative, and legal service costs incurred in connection with the transfer of the operational services to a third-party provider);
(2) The deposit must be held in an account designated as an operational account;
(3) The customer must hold the deposit at the Board-regulated institution for the primary purpose of obtaining the operational services provided by the Board-regulated institution;
(4) The deposit account must not be designed to create an economic incentive for the customer to maintain excess funds therein through increased revenue, reduction in fees, or other offered economic incentives;
(5) The Board-regulated institution must demonstrate that the deposit is empirically linked to the operational services and that it has a methodology that takes into account the volatility of the average balance for identifying any excess amount, which must be excluded from the operational deposit amount;
(6) The deposit must not be provided in connection with the Board-regulated institution's provision of prime brokerage services, which, for the purposes of this part, are a package of services offered by the Board-regulated institution whereby the Board-regulated institution, among other services, executes, clears, settles, and finances transactions entered into by the customer or a third-party entity on behalf of the customer (such as an executing broker), and where the Board-regulated institution has a right to use or rehypothecate assets provided by the customer, including in connection with the extension of margin and other similar financing of the customer, subject to applicable law, and includes operational services provided to a non-regulated fund; and
(7) The deposits must not be for arrangements in which the Board-regulated institution (as correspondent) holds deposits owned by another depository institution bank (as respondent) and the respondent temporarily places excess funds in an overnight deposit with the Board-regulated institution.

# Subpart B—Liquidity Coverage Ratio
§ 249.10
Liquidity coverage ratio.
(a)
Minimum liquidity coverage ratio requirement.
Subject to the transition provisions in subpart F of this part, a Board-regulated institution must calculate and maintain a liquidity coverage ratio that is equal to or greater than 1.0 on each business day (or, in the case of a Category IV Board-regulated institution, on the last business day of the applicable month) in accordance with this part. A Board-regulated institution must calculate its liquidity coverage ratio as of the same time on each calculation date (the elected calculation time). The Board-regulated institution must select this time by written notice to the Board prior to December 31, 2019. The Board-regulated institution may not thereafter change its elected calculation time without prior written approval from the Board.
(b)
Transition from monthly calculation to daily calculation.
A Board-regulated institution that was a Category IV Board-regulated institution immediately prior to moving to a different category must begin calculating and maintaining a liquidity coverage ratio each business day beginning on the first day of the fifth quarter after becoming a Category I Board-regulated institution, Category II Board-regulated institution, or Category III Board-regulated institution.
(c)
Calculation of the liquidity coverage ratio.
A Board-regulated institution's liquidity coverage ratio equals:
(1) The Board-regulated institution's HQLA amount as of the calculation date, calculated under subpart C of this part;
divided by
(2) The Board-regulated institution's total net cash outflow amount as of the calculation date, calculated under subpart D of this part.
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59275, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart C—High-Quality Liquid Assets
§ 249.20
High-quality liquid asset criteria.
(a)
Level 1 liquid assets.
An asset is a level 1 liquid asset if it is one of the following types of assets:
(1) Reserve Bank balances;
(2) Foreign withdrawable reserves;
(3) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, the U.S. Department of the Treasury;
(4) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. government agency (other than the U.S. Department of the Treasury) whose obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government, provided that the security is liquid and readily-marketable;
(5) A security that is issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a sovereign entity, the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, European Community, or a multilateral development bank, that is:
(i) Assigned a zero percent risk weight under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217) as of the calculation date;
(ii) Liquid and readily-marketable;
(iii) Issued or guaranteed by an entity whose obligations have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in repurchase or sales markets during stressed market conditions; and
(iv) Not an obligation of a financial sector entity and not an obligation of a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity; or
(6) A security issued by, or unconditionally guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a sovereign entity that is not assigned a zero percent risk weight under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217), where the sovereign entity issues the security in its own currency, the security is liquid and readily-marketable, and the Board-regulated institution holds the security in order to meet its
net cash outflows in the jurisdiction of the sovereign entity, as calculated under subpart D of this part.
(b)
Level 2A liquid assets.
An asset is a level 2A liquid asset if the asset is liquid and readily-marketable and is one of the following types of assets:
(1) A security issued by, or guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise, that is investment grade under 12 CFR part 1 as of the calculation date, provided that the claim is senior to preferred stock; or
(2) A security that is issued by, or guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by, a sovereign entity or multilateral development bank that is:
(i) Not included in level 1 liquid assets;
(ii) Assigned no higher than a 20 percent risk weight under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217) as of the calculation date;
(iii) Issued or guaranteed by an entity whose obligations have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in repurchase or sales markets during stressed market conditions, as demonstrated by:
(A) The market price of the security or equivalent securities of the issuer declining by no more than 10 percent during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress, or
(B) The market haircut demanded by counterparties to secured lending and secured funding transactions that are collateralized by the security or equivalent securities of the issuer increasing by no more than 10 percentage points during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress; and
(iv) Not an obligation of a financial sector entity, and not an obligation of a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity.
(c)
Level 2B liquid assets.
An asset is a level 2B liquid asset if the asset is liquid and readily-marketable and is one of the following types of assets:
(1) A corporate debt security that is:
(i) Investment grade under 12 CFR part 1 as of the calculation date;
(ii) Issued or guaranteed by an entity whose obligations have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in repurchase or sales markets during stressed market conditions, as demonstrated by:
(A) The market price of the corporate debt security or equivalent securities of the issuer declining by no more than 20 percent during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress, or
(B) The market haircut demanded by counterparties to secured lending and secured funding transactions that are collateralized by the corporate debt security or equivalent securities of the issuer increasing by no more than 20 percentage points during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress; and
(iii) Not an obligation of a financial sector entity and not an obligation of a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity;
(2) A publicly traded common equity share that is:
(i) Included in:
(A) The Russell 1000 Index; or
(B) An index that a Board-regulated institution's supervisor in a foreign jurisdiction recognizes for purposes of including equity shares in level 2B liquid assets under applicable regulatory policy, if the share is held in that foreign jurisdiction;
(ii) Issued in:
(A) U.S. dollars; or
(B) The currency of a jurisdiction where the Board-regulated institution operates and the Board-regulated institution holds the common equity share in order to cover its net cash outflows in that jurisdiction, as calculated under subpart D of this part;
(iii) Issued by an entity whose publicly traded common equity shares have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in repurchase or sales markets during stressed market conditions, as demonstrated by:
(A) The market price of the security or equivalent securities of the issuer declining by no more than 40 percent during a 30 calendar-day period of significant stress, or
(B) The market haircut demanded by counterparties to securities borrowing and lending transactions that are collateralized by the publicly traded common equity shares or equivalent securities of the issuer increasing by
no more than 40 percentage points, during a 30 calendar day period of significant stress;
(iv) Not issued by a financial sector entity and not issued by a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity;
(v) If held by a depository institution, is not acquired in satisfaction of a debt previously contracted (DPC); and
(vi) If held by a consolidated subsidiary of a depository institution, the depository institution can include the publicly traded common equity share in its level 2B liquid assets only if the share is held to cover net cash outflows of the depository institution's consolidated subsidiary in which the publicly traded common equity share is held, as calculated by the Board-regulated institution under subpart D of this part; or
(3) A municipal obligation that is investment grade under 12 CFR part 1 as of the calculation date.
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21232, Apr. 11, 2016; 83 FR 44455, Aug. 31, 2018]
§ 249.21
High-quality liquid asset amount.
(a)
Calculation of the HQLA amount.
As of the calculation date, a Board-regulated institution's HQLA amount equals:
(1) The level 1 liquid asset amount; plus
(2) The level 2A liquid asset amount; plus
(3) The level 2B liquid asset amount; minus
(4) The greater of:
(i) The unadjusted excess HQLA amount; and
(ii) The adjusted excess HQLA amount.
(b)
Calculation of liquid asset amounts
—(1)
Level 1 liquid asset amount.
The level 1 liquid asset amount equals the fair value of all level 1 liquid assets held by the Board-regulated institution as of the calculation date that are eligible HQLA, less the amount of the reserve balance requirement under section 204.5 of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.5).
(2)
Level 2A liquid asset amount.
The level 2A liquid asset amount equals 85 percent of the fair value of all level 2A liquid assets held by the Board-regulated institution as of the calculation date that are eligible HQLA.
(3)
Level 2B liquid asset amount.
The level 2B liquid asset amount equals 50 percent of the fair value of all level 2B liquid assets held by the Board-regulated institution as of the calculation date that are eligible HQLA.
(c)
Calculation of the unadjusted excess HQLA amount.
As of the calculation date, the unadjusted excess HQLA amount equals:
(1) The level 2 cap excess amount;
plus
(2) The level 2B cap excess amount.
(d)
Calculation of the level 2 cap excess amount.
As of the calculation date, the level 2 cap excess amount equals the greater of:
(1) The level 2A liquid asset amount plus the level 2B liquid asset amount minus 0.6667 times the level 1 liquid asset amount; and
(2) 0.
(e)
Calculation of the level 2B cap excess amount.
As of the calculation date, the level 2B excess amount equals the greater of:
(1) The level 2B liquid asset amount minus the level 2 cap excess amount minus 0.1765 times the sum of the level 1 liquid asset amount and the level 2A liquid asset amount; and
(2) 0.
(f)
Calculation of adjusted liquid asset amounts
—(1)
Adjusted level 1 liquid asset amount.
A Board-regulated institution's adjusted level 1 liquid asset amount equals the fair value of all level 1 liquid assets that would be eligible HQLA and would be held by the Board-regulated institution upon the unwind of any secured funding transaction (other than a collateralized deposit), secured lending transaction, asset exchange, or collateralized derivatives transaction that matures within 30 calendar days of the calculation date where the Board-regulated institution will provide an asset that is eligible HQLA and the counterparty will provide an asset that will be eligible HQLA; less the amount of the reserve balance requirement under section 204.5 of Regulation D (12 CFR 204.5).
(2)
Adjusted level 2A liquid asset amount.
A Board-regulated institution's adjusted level 2A liquid asset amount equals 85 percent of the fair value of all level 2A liquid assets that would be eligible HQLA and would be held by the Board-regulated institution upon the unwind of any secured funding transaction (other than a collateralized deposit), secured lending transaction, asset exchange, or collateralized derivatives transaction that matures within 30 calendar days of the calculation date where the Board-regulated institution will provide an asset that is eligible HQLA and the counterparty will provide an asset that will be eligible HQLA.
(3)
Adjusted level 2B liquid asset amount.
A Board-regulated institution's adjusted level 2B liquid asset amount equals 50 percent of the fair value of all level 2B liquid assets that would be eligible HQLA and would be held by the Board-regulated institution upon the unwind of any secured funding transaction (other than a collateralized deposit), secured lending transaction, asset exchange, or collateralized derivatives transaction that matures within 30 calendar days of the calculation date where the Board-regulated institution will provide an asset that is eligible HQLA and the counterparty will provide an asset that will be eligible HQLA.
(g)
Calculation of the adjusted excess HQLA amount.
As of the calculation date, the adjusted excess HQLA amount equals:
(1) The adjusted level 2 cap excess amount;
plus
(2) The adjusted level 2B cap excess amount.
(h)
Calculation of the adjusted level 2 cap excess amount.
As of the calculation date, the adjusted level 2 cap excess amount equals the greater of:
(1) The adjusted level 2A liquid asset amount plus the adjusted level 2B liquid asset amount minus 0.6667 times the adjusted level 1 liquid asset amount; and
(2) 0.
(i)
Calculation of the adjusted level 2B excess amount.
As of the calculation date, the adjusted level 2B excess liquid asset amount equals the greater of:
(1) The adjusted level 2B liquid asset amount minus the adjusted level 2 cap excess amount minus 0.1765 times the sum of the adjusted level 1 liquid asset amount and the adjusted level 2A liquid asset amount; and
(2) 0.
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21232, Apr. 11, 2016; 83 FR 44455, Aug. 31, 2018]
§ 249.22
Requirements for eligible high-quality liquid assets.
(a)
Operational requirements for eligible HQLA.
With respect to each asset that is eligible for inclusion in a Board-regulated institution's HQLA amount, a Board-regulated institution must meet all of the following operational requirements:
(1) The Board-regulated institution must demonstrate the operational capability to monetize the HQLA by:
(i) Implementing and maintaining appropriate procedures and systems to monetize any HQLA at any time in accordance with relevant standard settlement periods and procedures; and
(ii) Periodically monetizing a sample of HQLA that reasonably reflects the composition of the Board-regulated institution's eligible HQLA, including with respect to asset type, maturity, and counterparty characteristics;
(2) The Board-regulated institution must implement policies that require eligible HQLA to be under the control of the management function in the Board-regulated institution that is charged with managing liquidity risk, and this management function must evidence its control over the HQLA by either:
(i) Segregating the HQLA from other assets, with the sole intent to use the HQLA as a source of liquidity; or
(ii) Demonstrating the ability to monetize the assets and making the proceeds available to the liquidity management function without conflicting with a business or risk management strategy of the Board-regulated institution;
(3) The fair value of the eligible HQLA must be reduced by the outflow amount that would result from the termination of any specific transaction hedging eligible HQLA;
(4) The Board-regulated institution must implement and maintain policies and procedures that determine the composition of its eligible HQLA on each calculation date, by:
(i) Identifying its eligible HQLA by legal entity, geographical location, currency, account, or other relevant identifying factors as of the calculation date;
(ii) Determining that eligible HQLA meet the criteria set forth in this section; and
(iii) Ensuring the appropriate diversification of the eligible HQLA by asset type, counterparty, issuer, currency, borrowing capacity, or other factors associated with the liquidity risk of the assets; and
(5) The Board-regulated institution must have a documented methodology that results in a consistent treatment for determining that the Board-regulated institution's eligible HQLA meet the requirements set forth in this section.
(b)
Generally applicable criteria for eligible HQLA.
A Board-regulated institution's eligible HQLA must meet all of the following criteria:
(1) The assets are not encumbered.
(2) The asset is not:
(i) A client pool security held in a segregated account; or
(ii) An asset received from a secured funding transaction involving client pool securities that were held in a segregated account;
(3) For eligible HQLA held in a legal entity that is a U.S. consolidated subsidiary of a Board-regulated institution:
(i) If the U.S. consolidated subsidiary is subject to a minimum liquidity standard under this part, 12 CFR part 50, or 12 CFR part 329, the Board-regulated institution may include the eligible HQLA of the U.S. consolidated subsidiary in its HQLA amount up to:
(A) The amount of net cash outflows of the U.S. consolidated subsidiary calculated by the U.S. consolidated subsidiary for its own minimum liquidity standard under this part, 12 CFR part 50, or 12 CFR part 329;
plus
(B) Any additional amount of assets, including proceeds from the monetization of assets, that would be available for transfer to the top-tier Board-regulated institution during times of stress without statutory, regulatory, contractual, or supervisory restrictions, including sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c and 12 U.S.C. 371c-1) and Regulation W (12 CFR part 223);
(ii) If the U.S. consolidated subsidiary is not subject to a minimum liquidity standard under this part, or 12 CFR part 50, or 12 CFR part 329, the Board-regulated institution may include the eligible HQLA of the U.S. consolidated subsidiary in its HQLA amount up to:
(A) The amount of the net cash outflows of the U.S. consolidated subsidiary as of the 30th calendar day after the calculation date, as calculated by the Board-regulated institution for the Board-regulated institution's minimum liquidity standard under this part;
plus
(B) Any additional amount of assets, including proceeds from the monetization of assets, that would be available for transfer to the top-tier Board-regulated institution during times of stress without statutory, regulatory, contractual, or supervisory restrictions, including sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c and 12 U.S.C. 371c-1) and Regulation W (12 CFR part 223); and
(4) For HQLA held by a consolidated subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution that is organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, the Board-regulated institution may include the eligible HQLA of the consolidated subsidiary organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction in its HQLA amount up to:
(i) The amount of net cash outflows of the consolidated subsidiary as of the 30th calendar day after the calculation date, as calculated by the Board-regulated institution for the Board-regulated institution's minimum liquidity standard under this part;
plus
(ii) Any additional amount of assets that are available for transfer to the top-tier Board-regulated institution during times of stress without statutory, regulatory, contractual, or supervisory restrictions;
(5) The Board-regulated institution must not include as eligible HQLA any
assets, or HQLA resulting from transactions involving an asset that the Board-regulated institution received with rehypothecation rights, if the counterparty that provided the asset or the beneficial owner of the asset has a contractual right to withdraw the assets without an obligation to pay more than de minimis remuneration at any time during the 30 calendar days following the calculation date; and
(6) The Board-regulated institution has not designated the assets to cover operational costs.
(c)
Maintenance of U.S. eligible HQLA.
A Board-regulated institution is generally expected to maintain as eligible HQLA an amount and type of eligible HQLA in the United States that is sufficient to meet its total net cash outflow amount in the United States under subpart D of this part.
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 81 FR 21232, Apr. 11, 2016; 83 FR 44455, Aug. 31, 2018; 86 FR 9212, Feb. 11, 2021]

# Subpart D—Total Net Cash Outflow
§ 249.30
Total net cash outflow amount.
(a)
Calculation of total net cash outflow amount.
As of the calculation date, a Board-regulated institution's total net cash outflow amount equals the Board-regulated institution's outflow adjustment percentage as determined under paragraph (c) of this section multiplied by:
(1) The sum of the outflow amounts calculated under § 249.32(a) through (l);
minus
(2) The lesser of:
(i) The sum of the inflow amounts calculated under § 249.33(b) through (g); and
(ii) 75 percent of the amount calculated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
plus
(3) The maturity mismatch add-on as calculated under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Calculation of maturity mismatch add-on.
(1) For purposes of this section:
(i) The net cumulative maturity outflow amount for any of the 30 calendar days following the calculation date is equal to the sum of the outflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 249.32(g), (h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(5), (j), (k), and (l) that have a maturity date prior to or on that calendar day
minus
the sum of the inflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 249.33(c), (d), (e), and (f) that have a maturity date prior to or on that calendar day.
(ii) The net day 30 cumulative maturity outflow amount is equal to, as of the 30th day following the calculation date, the sum of the outflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 249.32(g), (h)(1), (h)(2), (h)(5), (j), (k), and (l) that have a maturity date 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date
minus
the sum of the inflow amounts for instruments or transactions identified in § 249.33(c), (d), (e), and (f) that have a maturity date 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date.
(2) As of the calculation date, a Board-regulated institution's maturity mismatch add-on is equal to:
(i) The greater of:
(A) 0; and
(B) The largest net cumulative maturity outflow amount as calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for any of the 30 calendar days following the calculation date;
minus
(ii) The greater of:
(A) 0; and
(B) The net day 30 cumulative maturity outflow amount as calculated under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(3) Other than the transactions identified in § 249.32(h)(2), (h)(5), or (j) or § 249.33(d) or (f), the maturity of which is determined under § 249.31(a), transactions that have an open maturity are not included in the calculation of the maturity mismatch add-on.
(c)
Outflow adjustment percentage.
A Board-regulated institution's outflow adjustment percentage is determined pursuant to Table 1 to this paragraph (c).
Table 1 to § 249.30(
c
)—Outflow Adjustment Percentages
Percent
Outflow adjustment percentage
Global systemically important BHC or GSIB depository institution
100
Category II Board-regulated institution
100
Category III Board-regulated institution with $75 billion or more in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and any Category III Board-regulated institution that is a consolidated subsidiary of such a Category III Board-regulated institution
100
Category III Board-regulated institution with less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and any Category III Board-regulated institution that is a consolidated subsidiary of such a Category III Board-regulated institution
85
Category IV Board-regulated institution with $50 billion or more in average weighted short-term wholesale funding
70
(d)
Transition into a different outflow adjustment percentage.
(1) A Board-regulated institution whose outflow adjustment percentage increases from a lower to a higher outflow adjustment percentage may continue to use its previous lower outflow adjustment percentage until the first day of the third calendar quarter after the outflow adjustment percentage increases.
(2) A Board-regulated institution whose outflow adjustment percentage decreases from a higher to a lower outflow adjustment percentage must continue to use its previous higher outflow adjustment percentage until the first day of the first calendar quarter after the outflow adjustment percentage decreases.
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59275, Nov. 1, 2019; 86 FR 9212, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 249.31
Determining maturity.
(a) For purposes of calculating its liquidity coverage ratio and the components thereof under this subpart, a Board-regulated institution shall assume an asset or transaction matures:
(1) With respect to an instrument or transaction subject to § 249.32, on the earliest possible contractual maturity date or the earliest possible date the transaction could occur, taking into account any option that could accelerate the maturity date or the date of the transaction, except that when considering the earliest possible contractual maturity date or the earliest possible date the transaction could occur, the Board-regulated institution should exclude any contingent options that are triggered only by regulatory actions or changes in law or regulation, as follows:
(i) If an investor or funds provider has an option that would reduce the maturity, the Board-regulated institution must assume that the investor or funds provider will exercise the option at the earliest possible date;
(ii) If an investor or funds provider has an option that would extend the maturity, the Board-regulated institution must assume that the investor or funds provider will not exercise the option to extend the maturity;
(iii) If the Board-regulated institution has an option that would reduce the maturity of an obligation, the Board-regulated institution must assume that the Board-regulated institution will exercise the option at the earliest possible date, except if either of the following criteria are satisfied, in which case the maturity of the obligation for purposes of this part will be the original maturity date at issuance:
(A) The original maturity of the obligation is greater than one year and the option does not go into effect for a period of 180 days following the issuance of the instrument; or
(B) The counterparty is a sovereign entity, a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise, or a public sector entity.
(iv) If the Board-regulated institution has an option that would extend the maturity of an obligation it issued, the Board-regulated institution must assume the Board-regulated institution will not exercise that option to extend the maturity; and
(v) If an option is subject to a contractually defined notice period, the Board-regulated institution must determine the earliest possible contractual maturity date regardless of the notice period.
(2) With respect to an instrument or transaction subject to § 249.33, on the latest possible contractual maturity date or the latest possible date the transaction could occur, taking into account any option that could extend the maturity date or the date of the transaction, except that when considering the latest possible contractual maturity date or the latest possible date the transaction could occur, the
Board-regulated institution may exclude any contingent options that are triggered only by regulatory actions or changes in law or regulation, as follows:
(i) If the borrower has an option that would extend the maturity, the Board-regulated institution must assume that the borrower will exercise the option to extend the maturity to the latest possible date;
(ii) If the borrower has an option that would reduce the maturity, the Board-regulated institution must assume that the borrower will not exercise the option to reduce the maturity;
(iii) If the Board-regulated institution has an option that would reduce the maturity of an instrument or transaction, the Board-regulated institution must assume the Board-regulated institution will not exercise the option to reduce the maturity;
(iv) If the Board-regulated institution has an option that would extend the maturity of an instrument or transaction, the Board-regulated institution must assume the Board-regulated institution will exercise the option to extend the maturity to the latest possible date; and
(v) If an option is subject to a contractually defined notice period, the Board-regulated institution must determine the latest possible contractual maturity date based on the borrower using the entire notice period.
(3) With respect to a transaction subject to § 249.33(f)(1)(iii) through (vii) (secured lending transactions) or § 249.33(f)(2)(ii) through (x) (asset exchanges), to the extent the transaction is secured by collateral that has been pledged in connection with either a secured funding transaction or asset exchange that has a remaining maturity of 30 calendar days or less as of the calculation date, the maturity date is the later of the maturity date determined under paragraph (a)(2) of this section for the secured lending transaction or asset exchange or the maturity date determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the secured funding transaction or asset exchange for which the collateral has been pledged.
(4) With respect to a transaction that has an open maturity, is not an operational deposit, and is subject to the provisions of § 249.32(h)(2), (h)(5), (j), or (k) or § 249.33(d) or (f), the maturity date is the first calendar day after the calculation date. Any other transaction that has an open maturity and is subject to the provisions of § 249.32 shall be considered to mature within 30 calendar days of the calculation date.
(5) With respect to a transaction subject to the provisions of § 249.33(g), on the date of the next scheduled calculation of the amount required under applicable legal requirements for the protection of customer assets with respect to each broker-dealer segregated account, in accordance with the Board-regulated institution's normal frequency of recalculating such requirements.
(b) [Reserved]
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 9212, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 249.32
Outflow amounts.
(a)
Retail funding outflow amount.
A Board-regulated institution's retail funding outflow amount as of the calculation date includes (regardless of maturity or collateralization):
(1) 3 percent of all stable retail deposits held at the Board-regulated institution;
(2) 10 percent of all other retail deposits held at the Board-regulated institution;
(3) 20 percent of all deposits placed at the Board-regulated institution by a third party on behalf of a retail customer or counterparty that are not brokered deposits, where the retail customer or counterparty owns the account and the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(4) 40 percent of all deposits placed at the Board-regulated institution by a third party on behalf of a retail customer or counterparty that are not brokered deposits, where the retail customer or counterparty owns the account and where less than the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance; and
(5) 40 percent of all funding from a retail customer or counterparty that is not:
(i) A retail deposit;
(ii) A brokered deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty; or
(iii) A debt instrument issued by the Board-regulated institution that is owned by a retail customer or counterparty (see paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section).
(b)
Structured transaction outflow amount.
If the Board-regulated institution is a sponsor of a structured transaction where the issuing entity is not consolidated on the Board-regulated institution's balance sheet under GAAP, the structured transaction outflow amount for each such structured transaction as of the calculation date is the greater of:
(1) 100 percent of the amount of all debt obligations of the issuing entity that mature 30 calendar days or less from such calculation date and all commitments made by the issuing entity to purchase assets within 30 calendar days or less from such calculation date; and
(2) The maximum contractual amount of funding the Board-regulated institution may be required to provide to the issuing entity 30 calendar days or less from such calculation date through a liquidity facility, a return or repurchase of assets from the issuing entity, or other funding agreement.
(c)
Net derivative cash outflow amount.
The net derivative cash outflow amount as of the calculation date is the sum of the net derivative cash outflow amount for each counterparty. The net derivative cash outflow amount does not include forward sales of mortgage loans and any derivatives that are mortgage commitments subject to paragraph (d) of this section. The net derivative cash outflow amount for a counterparty is the sum of:
(1) The amount, if greater than zero, of contractual payments and collateral that the Board-regulated institution will make or deliver to the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under derivative transactions other than transactions described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, less the contractual payments and collateral that the Board-regulated institution will receive from the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under derivative transactions other than transactions described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, provided that the derivative transactions are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement; and
(2) The amount, if greater than zero, of contractual principal payments that the Board-regulated institution will make to the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under foreign currency exchange derivative transactions that result in the full exchange of contractual cash principal payments in different currencies within the same business day, less the contractual principal payments that the Board-regulated institution will receive from the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under foreign currency exchange derivative transactions that result in the full exchange of contractual cash principal payments in different currencies within the same business day.
(d)
Mortgage commitment outflow amount.
The mortgage commitment outflow amount as of a calculation date is 10 percent of the amount of funds the Board-regulated institution has contractually committed for its own origination of retail mortgages that can be drawn upon 30 calendar days or less from such calculation date.
(e)
Commitment outflow amount.
(1) A Board-regulated institution's commitment outflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit and liquidity facilities extended by a Board-regulated institution that is a depository institution to an affiliated depository institution that is subject to a minimum liquidity standard under this part;
(ii) 5 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit and liquidity facilities extended by the Board-regulated institution to retail customers or counterparties;
(iii) 10 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit facilities extended by the Board-regulated institution to a wholesale customer or counterparty that is not a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof, including a special purpose entity (other than those described in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) that is a consolidated subsidiary of
such wholesale customer or counterparty;
(iv) 30 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed liquidity facilities extended by the Board-regulated institution to a wholesale customer or counterparty that is not a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof, including a special purpose entity (other than those described in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) that is a consolidated subsidiary of such wholesale customer or counterparty;
(v) 50 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit and liquidity facilities extended by the Board-regulated institution to depository institutions, depository institution holding companies, and foreign banks, but excluding commitments described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section;
(vi) 40 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit facilities extended by the Board-regulated institution to a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof, including a special purpose entity (other than those described in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) that is a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, but excluding other commitments described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (v) of this section;
(vii) 100 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed liquidity facilities extended by the Board-regulated institution to a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof, including a special purpose entity (other than those described in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section) that is a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, but excluding other commitments described in paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (v) of this section and liquidity facilities included in paragraph (b)(2) of this section;
(viii) 100 percent of the undrawn amount of all committed credit and liquidity facilities extended to a special purpose entity that issues or has issued commercial paper or securities (other than equity securities issued to a company of which the special purpose entity is a consolidated subsidiary) to finance its purchases or operations, and excluding liquidity facilities included in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(ix) 100 percent of the undrawn amount of all other committed credit or liquidity facilities extended by the Board-regulated institution.
(2) For the purposes of this paragraph (e), the undrawn amount of a committed credit facility or committed liquidity facility is the entire unused amount of the facility that could be drawn upon within 30 calendar days of the calculation date under the governing agreement, less the amount of level 1 liquid assets and the amount of level 2A liquid assets securing the facility.
(3) For the purposes of this paragraph (e), the amount of level 1 liquid assets and level 2A liquid assets securing a committed credit or liquidity facility is the fair value of level 1 liquid assets and 85 percent of the fair value of level 2A liquid assets that are required to be pledged as collateral by the counterparty to secure the facility, provided that:
(i) The assets pledged upon a draw on the facility would be eligible HQLA; and
(ii) The Board-regulated institution has not included the assets as eligible HQLA under subpart C of this part as of the calculation date.
(f)
Collateral outflow amount.
The collateral outflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(1)
Changes in financial condition.
100 percent of all additional amounts of collateral the Board-regulated institution could be contractually required to pledge or to fund under the terms of any transaction as a result of a change in the Board-regulated institution's financial condition;
(2)
Derivative collateral potential valuation changes.
20 percent of the fair value of any collateral securing a derivative transaction pledged to a counterparty by the Board-regulated institution that is not a level 1 liquid asset;
(3)
Potential derivative valuation changes.
The absolute value of the largest 30-consecutive calendar day cumulative net mark-to-market collateral outflow or inflow realized during the preceding 24 months resulting from derivative transaction valuation changes;
(4)
Excess collateral.
100 percent of the fair value of collateral that:
(i) The Board-regulated institution could be required by contract to return to a counterparty because the collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution exceeds the current collateral requirement of the counterparty under the governing contract;
(ii) Is not segregated from the Board-regulated institution's other assets such that it cannot be rehypothecated; and
(iii) Is not already excluded as eligible HQLA by the Board-regulated institution under § 249.22(b)(5);
(5)
Contractually required collateral.
100 percent of the fair value of collateral that the Board-regulated institution is contractually required to pledge to a counterparty and, as of such calculation date, the Board-regulated institution has not yet pledged;
(6)
Collateral substitution.
(i) Zero percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 1 liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with other assets that qualify as level 1 liquid assets, without the consent of the Board-regulated institution;
(ii) 15 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution by a counterparty, where the collateral qualifies as level 1 liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that qualify as level 2A liquid assets, without the consent of the Board-regulated institution;
(iii) 50 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 1 liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where under, the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that qualify as level 2B liquid assets, without the consent of the Board-regulated institution;
(iv) 100 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 1 liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that do not qualify as HQLA, without the consent of the Board-regulated institution;
(v) Zero percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2A liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that qualify as level 1 or level 2A liquid assets, without the consent of the Board-regulated institution;
(vi) 35 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2A liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that qualify as level 2B liquid assets, without the consent of the Board-regulated institution;
(vii) 85 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2A liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with assets that do not qualify as HQLA, without the consent of the Board-regulated institution;
(viii) Zero percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2B liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may replace the pledged collateral with other assets that qualify as HQLA, without the consent of the Board-regulated institution; and
(ix) 50 percent of the fair value of collateral pledged to the Board-regulated institution by a counterparty where the collateral qualifies as level 2B liquid assets and eligible HQLA and where, under the contract governing the transaction, the counterparty may
replace the pledged collateral with assets that do not qualify as HQLA, without the consent of the Board-regulated institution.
(g)
Brokered deposit outflow amount for retail customers or counterparties.
The brokered deposit outflow amount for retail customers or counterparties as of the calculation date includes:
(1) 100 percent of all brokered deposits at the Board-regulated institution provided by a retail customer or counterparty that are not described in paragraphs (g)(5) through (9) of this section and which mature 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date;
(2) 10 percent of all brokered deposits at the Board-regulated institution provided by a retail customer or counterparty that are not described in paragraphs (g)(5) through (9) of this section and which mature later than 30 calendar days from the calculation date;
(3) 20 percent of all brokered deposits at the Board-regulated institution provided by a retail customer or counterparty that are not described in paragraphs (g)(5) through (9) of this section and which are held in a transactional account with no contractual maturity date, where the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(4) 40 percent of all brokered deposits at the Board-regulated institution provided by a retail customer or counterparty that are not described in paragraphs (g)(5) through (9) of this section and which are held in a transactional account with no contractual maturity date, where less than the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(5) 10 percent of all brokered reciprocal deposits at the Board-regulated institution provided by a retail customer or counterparty, where the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(6) 25 percent of all brokered reciprocal deposits at the Board-regulated institution provided by a retail customer or counterparty, where less than the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(7) 10 percent of all sweep deposits at the Board-regulated institution provided by a retail customer or counterparty:
(i) That are deposited in accordance with a contract between the retail customer or counterparty and the Board-regulated institution, a controlled subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution, or a company that is a controlled subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the Board-regulated institution is a controlled subsidiary; and
(ii) Where the entire amount of the deposits is covered by deposit insurance;
(8) 25 percent of all sweep deposits at the Board-regulated institution provided by a retail customer or counterparty:
(i) That are not deposited in accordance with a contract between the retail customer or counterparty and the Board-regulated institution, a controlled subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution, or a company that is a controlled subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the Board-regulated institution is a controlled subsidiary; and
(ii) Where the entire amount of the deposits is covered by deposit insurance; and
(9) 40 percent of all sweep deposits at the Board-regulated institution provided by a retail customer or counterparty where less than the entire amount of the deposit balance is covered by deposit insurance.
(h)
Unsecured wholesale funding outflow amount.
A Board-regulated institution's unsecured wholesale funding outflow amount, for all transactions that mature within 30 calendar days or less of the calculation date, as of the calculation date includes:
(1) For unsecured wholesale funding that is not an operational deposit and is not provided by a financial sector entity or consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity:
(i) 20 percent of all such funding, where the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance and the funding is not a brokered deposit;
(ii) 40 percent of all such funding, where:
(A) Less than the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance; or
(B) The funding is a brokered deposit;
(2) 100 percent of all unsecured wholesale funding that is not an operational deposit and is not included in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, including:
(i) Funding provided by a company that is a consolidated subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the Board-regulated institution is a consolidated subsidiary; and
(ii) Debt instruments issued by the Board-regulated institution, including such instruments owned by retail customers or counterparties;
(3) 5 percent of all operational deposits, other than operational deposits that are held in escrow accounts, where the entire deposit amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(4) 25 percent of all operational deposits not included in paragraph (h)(3) of this section; and
(5) 100 percent of all unsecured wholesale funding that is not otherwise described in this paragraph (h).
(i)
Debt security buyback outflow amount.
A Board-regulated institution's debt security buyback outflow amount for debt securities issued by the Board-regulated institution that mature more than 30 calendar days after the calculation date and for which the Board-regulated institution or a consolidated subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution is the primary market maker in such debt securities includes:
(1) 3 percent of all such debt securities that are not structured securities; and
(2) 5 percent of all such debt securities that are structured securities.
(j)
Secured funding and asset exchange outflow amount.
(1) A Board-regulated institution's secured funding outflow amount, for all transactions that mature within 30 calendar days or less of the calculation date, as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of all funds the Board-regulated institution must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions, to the extent that the funds are secured by level 1 liquid assets;
(ii) 15 percent of all funds the Board-regulated institution must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions, to the extent that the funds are secured by level 2A liquid assets;
(iii) 25 percent of all funds the Board-regulated institution must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions with sovereign entities, multilateral development banks, or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises that are assigned a risk weight of 20 percent under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217), to the extent that the funds are not secured by level 1 or level 2A liquid assets;
(iv) 50 percent of all funds the Board-regulated institution must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions, to the extent that the funds are secured by level 2B liquid assets;
(v) 50 percent of all funds received from secured funding transactions that are customer short positions where the customer short positions are covered by other customers' collateral and the collateral does not consist of HQLA; and
(vi) 100 percent of all other funds the Board-regulated institution must pay pursuant to secured funding transactions, to the extent that the funds are secured by assets that are not HQLA.
(2) If an outflow rate specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for a secured funding transaction is greater than the outflow rate that the Board-regulated institution is required to apply under paragraph (h) of this section to an unsecured wholesale funding transaction that is not an operational deposit with the same counterparty, the Board-regulated institution may apply to the secured funding transaction the outflow rate that applies to an unsecured wholesale funding transaction that is not an operational deposit with that counterparty, except in the case of:
(i) Secured funding transactions that are secured by collateral that was received by the Board-regulated institution under a secured lending transaction or asset exchange, in which case the Board-regulated institution must apply the outflow rate specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for the secured funding transaction; and
(ii) Collateralized deposits that are operational deposits, in which case the Board-regulated institution may apply to the operational deposit amount, as calculated in accordance with § 249.4(b),
the operational deposit outflow rate specified in paragraph (h)(3) or (4) of this section, as applicable, if such outflow rate is lower than the outflow rate specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
(3) A Board-regulated institution's asset exchange outflow amount, for all transactions that mature within 30 calendar days or less of the calculation date, as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the Board-regulated institution must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution will receive level 1 liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(ii) 15 percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the Board-regulated institution must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution will receive level 2A liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(iii) 50 percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the Board-regulated institution must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution will receive level 2B liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(iv) 100 percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the Board-regulated institution must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution will receive assets that are not HQLA from the asset exchange counterparty;
(v) Zero percent of the fair value of the level 2A liquid assets that Board-regulated institution must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where Board-regulated institution will receive level 1 or level 2A liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(vi) 35 percent of the fair value of the level 2A liquid assets the Board-regulated institution must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution will receive level 2B liquid assets from the asset exchange counterparty;
(vii) 85 percent of the fair value of the level 2A liquid assets the Board-regulated institution must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution will receive assets that are not HQLA from the asset exchange counterparty;
(viii) Zero percent of the fair value of the level 2B liquid assets the Board-regulated institution must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution will receive HQLA from the asset exchange counterparty; and
(ix) 50 percent of the fair value of the level 2B liquid assets the Board-regulated institution must post to a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraphs (j)(3)(x) through (xiii) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution will receive assets that are not HQLA from the asset exchange counterparty;
(x) Zero percent of the fair value of the level 1 liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to an asset exchange where the Board-regulated institution has rehypothecated the assets posted by the asset exchange counterparty, and, as of the calculation date, the assets will not be returned to the Board-regulated institution within 30 calendar days;
(xi) 15 percent of the fair value of the level 2A liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to an asset exchange where the Board-regulated institution has rehypothecated the assets posted by the asset exchange counterparty, and, as of the calculation date, the assets will not be returned to the Board-regulated institution within 30 calendar days;
(xii) 50 percent of the fair value of the level 2B liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from
a counterparty pursuant to an asset exchange where the Board-regulated institution has rehypothecated the assets posted by the asset exchange counterparty, and, as of the calculation date, the assets will not be returned to the Board-regulated institution within 30 calendar days; and
(xiii) 100 percent of the fair value of the non-HQLA the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to an asset exchange where the Board-regulated institution has rehypothecated the assets posted by the asset exchange counterparty, and, as of the calculation date, the assets will not be returned to the Board-regulated institution within 30 calendar days.
(k)
Foreign central bank borrowing outflow amount.
A Board-regulated institution's foreign central bank borrowing outflow amount is, in a foreign jurisdiction where the Board-regulated institution has borrowed from the jurisdiction's central bank, the outflow amount assigned to borrowings from central banks in a minimum liquidity standard established in that jurisdiction. If the foreign jurisdiction has not specified a central bank borrowing outflow amount in a minimum liquidity standard, the foreign central bank borrowing outflow amount must be calculated in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.
(l)
Other contractual outflow amount.
A Board-regulated institution's other contractual outflow amount is 100 percent of funding or amounts, with the exception of operating expenses of the Board-regulated institution (such as rents, salaries, utilities, and other similar payments), payable by the Board-regulated institution to counterparties under legally binding agreements that are not otherwise specified in this section.
(m)
Excluded amounts for intragroup transactions.
The outflow amounts set forth in this section do not include amounts arising out of transactions between:
(1) The Board-regulated institution and a consolidated subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution; or
(2) A consolidated subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution and another consolidated subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution.
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 86 FR 9212, Feb. 11, 2021]
§ 249.33
Inflow amounts.
(a) The inflows in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section do not include:
(1) Amounts the Board-regulated institution holds in operational deposits at other regulated financial companies;
(2) Amounts the Board-regulated institution expects, or is contractually entitled to receive, 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date due to forward sales of mortgage loans and any derivatives that are mortgage commitments subject to § 249.32(d);
(3) The amount of any credit or liquidity facilities extended to the Board-regulated institution;
(4) The amount of any asset that is eligible HQLA and any amounts payable to the Board-regulated institution with respect to that asset;
(5) Any amounts payable to the Board-regulated institution from an obligation of a customer or counterparty that is a nonperforming asset as of the calculation date or that the Board-regulated institution has reason to expect will become a nonperforming exposure 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date; and
(6) Amounts payable to the Board-regulated institution with respect to any transaction that has no contractual maturity date or that matures after 30 calendar days of the calculation date (as determined by § 249.31).
(b)
Net derivative cash inflow amount.
The net derivative cash inflow amount as of the calculation date is the sum of the net derivative cash inflow amount for each counterparty. The net derivative cash inflow amount does not include amounts excluded from inflows under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The net derivative cash inflow amount for a counterparty is the sum of:
(1) The amount, if greater than zero, of contractual payments and collateral that the Board-regulated institution will receive from the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under derivative transactions other than transactions described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, less the
contractual payments and collateral that the Board-regulated institution will make or deliver to the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under derivative transactions other than transactions described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, provided that the derivative transactions are subject to a qualifying master netting agreement; and
(2) The amount, if greater than zero, of contractual principal payments that the Board-regulated institution will receive from the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under foreign currency exchange derivative transactions that result in the full exchange of contractual cash principal payments in different currencies within the same business day, less the contractual principal payments that the Board-regulated institution will make to the counterparty 30 calendar days or less from the calculation date under foreign currency exchange derivative transactions that result in the full exchange of contractual cash principal payments in different currencies within the same business day.
(c)
Retail cash inflow amount.
The retail cash inflow amount as of the calculation date includes 50 percent of all payments contractually payable to the Board-regulated institution from retail customers or counterparties.
(d)
Unsecured wholesale cash inflow amount.
The unsecured wholesale cash inflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(1) 100 percent of all payments contractually payable to the Board-regulated institution from financial sector entities, or from a consolidated subsidiary thereof, or central banks; and
(2) 50 percent of all payments contractually payable to the Board-regulated institution from wholesale customers or counterparties that are not financial sector entities or consolidated subsidiaries thereof, provided that, with respect to revolving credit facilities, the amount of the existing loan is not included in the unsecured wholesale cash inflow amount and the remaining undrawn balance is included in the outflow amount under § 249.32(e)(1).
(e)
Securities cash inflow amount.
The securities cash inflow amount as of the calculation date includes 100 percent of all contractual payments due to the Board-regulated institution on securities it owns that are not eligible HQLA.
(f)
Secured lending and asset exchange cash inflow amount.
(1) A Board-regulated institution's secured lending cash inflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of all contractual payments due to the Board-regulated institution pursuant to secured lending transactions, including margin loans extended to customers, to the extent that the payments are secured by collateral that has been rehypothecated in a transaction and, as of the calculation date, will not be returned to the Board-regulated institution within 30 calendar days;
(ii) 100 percent of all contractual payments due to the Board-regulated institution pursuant to secured lending transactions not described in paragraph (f)(1)(vii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by assets that are not eligible HQLA, but are still held by the Board-regulated institution and are available for immediate return to the counterparty at any time;
(iii) Zero percent of all contractual payments due to the Board-regulated institution pursuant to secured lending transactions not described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by level 1 liquid assets;
(iv) 15 percent of all contractual payments due to the Board-regulated institution pursuant to secured lending transactions not described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by level 2A liquid assets;
(v) 50 percent of all contractual payments due to the Board-regulated institution pursuant to secured lending transactions not described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by level 2B liquid assets;
(vi) 100 percent of all contractual payments due to the Board-regulated institution pursuant to secured lending
transactions not described in paragraphs (f)(1)(i), (ii), or (vii) of this section, to the extent that the payments are secured by assets that are not HQLA; and
(vii) 50 percent of all contractual payments due to the Board-regulated institution pursuant to collateralized margin loans extended to customers, not described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, provided that the loans are secured by assets that are not HQLA.
(2) A Board-regulated institution's asset exchange inflow amount as of the calculation date includes:
(i) Zero percent of the fair value of assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, to the extent that the asset received by the Board-regulated institution from the counterparty has been rehypothecated in a transaction and, as of the calculation date, will not be returned to the Board-regulated institution within 30 calendar days;
(ii) Zero percent of the fair value of level 1 liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution must post level 1 liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(iii) 15 percent of the fair value of level 1 liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution must post level 2A liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(iv) 50 percent of the fair value of level 1 liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution must post level 2B liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(v) 100 percent of the fair value of level 1 liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution must post assets that are not HQLA to the asset exchange counterparty;
(vi) Zero percent of the fair value of level 2A liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution must post level 1 or level 2A liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(vii) 35 percent of the fair value of level 2A liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution must post level 2B liquid assets to the asset exchange counterparty;
(viii) 85 percent of the fair value of level 2A liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution must post assets that are not HQLA to the asset exchange counterparty;
(ix) Zero percent of the fair value of level 2B liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution must post assets that are HQLA to the asset exchange counterparty; and
(x) 50 percent of the fair value of level 2B liquid assets the Board-regulated institution will receive from a counterparty pursuant to asset exchanges, not described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, where the Board-regulated institution must post assets that are not HQLA to the asset exchange counterparty.
(g)
Broker-dealer segregated account inflow amount.
A Board-regulated institution's broker-dealer segregated account inflow amount is the fair value of all assets released from broker-dealer segregated accounts maintained in accordance with statutory or regulatory requirements for the protection of customer trading assets, provided
that the calculation of the broker-dealer segregated account inflow amount, for any transaction affecting the calculation of the segregated balance (as required by applicable law), shall be consistent with the following:
(1) In calculating the broker-dealer segregated account inflow amount, the Board-regulated institution must calculate the fair value of the required balance of the customer reserve account as of 30 calendar days from the calculation date by assuming that customer cash and collateral positions have changed consistent with the outflow and inflow calculations required under §§ 249.32 and 249.33.
(2) If the fair value of the required balance of the customer reserve account as of 30 calendar days from the calculation date, as calculated consistent with the outflow and inflow calculations required under §§ 249.32 and 249.33, is less than the fair value of the required balance as of the calculation date, the difference is the segregated account inflow amount.
(3) If the fair value of the required balance of the customer reserve account as of 30 calendar days from the calculation date, as calculated consistent with the outflow and inflow calculations required under §§ 249.32 and 249.33, is more than the fair value of the required balance as of the calculation date, the segregated account inflow amount is zero.
(h)
Other cash inflow amounts.
A Board-regulated institution's inflow amount as of the calculation date includes zero percent of other cash inflow amounts not included in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.
(i)
Excluded amounts for intragroup transactions.
The inflow amounts set forth in this section do not include amounts arising out of transactions between:
(1) The Board-regulated institution and a consolidated subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution; or
(2) A consolidated subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution and another consolidated subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution.
§ 249.34
Cash flows related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
(a)
Treatment of Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
Notwithstanding any other section of this part and except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, outflow amounts and inflow amounts related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding and the assets securing Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding are excluded from the calculation of a Board-regulated institution's total net cash outflow amount calculated under § 249.30.
(b)
Exception.
To the extent the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding is secured by securities, debt obligations, or other instruments issued by the Board-regulated institution or one of its consolidated subsidiaries, the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding is not subject to paragraph (a) of this section and this outflow amount must be included in the Board-regulated institution's total net cash outflow amount calculated under § 249.30.
[85 FR 26841, May 6, 2020]

# Subpart E—Liquidity Coverage Shortfall
§ 249.40
Liquidity coverage shortfall: Supervisory framework.
(a)
Notification requirements.
A Board-regulated institution must notify the Board on any business day when its liquidity coverage ratio is calculated to be less than the minimum requirement in § 249.10.
(b)
Liquidity plan.
(1) For the period during which a Board-regulated institution must calculate a liquidity coverage ratio on the last business day of each applicable calendar month under subparts F or G of this part, if the Board-regulated institution's liquidity coverage ratio is below the minimum requirement in § 249.10 for any calculation date that is the last business day of the applicable calendar month, or if the Board has determined that the Board-regulated institution is otherwise materially noncompliant with the requirements of this part, the Board-regulated institution must promptly consult with the Board to determine whether the Board-regulated institution must provide to the Board a plan
for achieving compliance with the minimum liquidity requirement in § 249.10 and all other requirements of this part.
(2) For the period during which a Board-regulated institution must calculate a liquidity coverage ratio each business day under subpart F of this part, if a Board-regulated institution's liquidity coverage ratio is below the minimum requirement in § 249.10 for three consecutive business days, or if the Board has determined that the Board-regulated institution is otherwise materially noncompliant with the requirements of this part, the Board-regulated institution must promptly provide to the Board a plan for achieving compliance with the minimum liquidity requirement in § 249.10 and all other requirements of this part.
(3) The plan must include, as applicable:
(i) An assessment of the Board-regulated institution's liquidity position;
(ii) The actions the Board-regulated institution has taken and will take to achieve full compliance with this part, including:
(A) A plan for adjusting the Board-regulated institution's risk profile, risk management, and funding sources in order to achieve full compliance with this part; and
(B) A plan for remediating any operational or management issues that contributed to noncompliance with this part;
(iii) An estimated time frame for achieving full compliance with this part; and
(iv) A commitment to report to the Board no less than weekly on progress to achieve compliance in accordance with the plan until full compliance with this part is achieved.
(c)
Supervisory and enforcement actions.
The Board may, at its discretion, take additional supervisory or enforcement actions to address noncompliance with the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part.
[79 FR 61523, 61539, Oct. 10, 2014, as amended at 79 FR 61540, Oct. 10, 2014]

# Subpart F—Transitions
§ 249.50
Transitions.
(a)
No transitions for certain Board-regulated institutions.
A Board-regulated institution that is subject to the minimum liquidity standards and other requirements of this part immediately prior to December 31, 2019 must comply with the requirements of this part as of December 31, 2019.
(b)
Transitions for certain U.S. intermediate holding companies.
A U.S. intermediate holding company that initially becomes subject to this part on December 31, 2019 does not need to comply with the minimum liquidity standard of § 249.10 or with the public disclosure requirements of § 249.90 until December 31, 2020, at which time the U.S. intermediate holding company must comply with the minimum liquidity standard of § 249.10 each business day (or, in the case of a Category IV Board-regulated institution, on the last business day of the applicable calendar month) in accordance with this part, and with the public disclosure requirements of § 249.90.
(c)
Initial application.
(1) A Board-regulated institution that initially becomes subject to the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part under § 249.1(b)(1)(i) or (ii) after December 31, 2019, must comply with the requirements of this part beginning on the first day of the third calendar quarter after which the Board-regulated institution becomes subject to this part, except that a Board-regulated institution that is not a Category IV Board-regulated institution must:
(i) For the first two calendar quarters after the Board-regulated institution begins complying with the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part, calculate and maintain a liquidity coverage ratio monthly, on each calculation date that is the last business day of the applicable calendar month; and
(ii) Beginning the first day of the fifth calendar quarter after the Board-regulated institution becomes subject to the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part and continuing thereafter, calculate and maintain a liquidity coverage ratio on each calculation date.
(2) A Board-regulated institution that becomes subject to the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part under § 249.1(b)(1)(iii)
must comply with the requirements of this part subject to a transition period specified by the Board.
(d)
Transition into a different outflow adjustment percentage.
(1) A Board-regulated institution whose outflow adjustment percentage changes is subject to transition periods as set forth in § 249.30(d).
(2) A Board-regulated institution that is no longer subject to the minimum liquidity standard and other requirements of this part pursuant to § 249.1(b)(1)(i) or (ii) based on the size of total consolidated assets, cross-jurisdictional activity, total nonbank assets, weighted short-term wholesale funding, or off-balance sheet exposure calculated in accordance with the Call Report, instructions to the FR Y-9LP or the FR Y-15 or equivalent reporting form, as applicable, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters may cease compliance with this part as of the first day of the first quarter after it is no longer subject to § 249.1(b).
(e)
Reservation of authority.
The Board may extend or accelerate any compliance date of this part if the Board determines that such extension or acceleration is appropriate. In determining whether an extension or acceleration is appropriate, the Board will consider the effect of the modification on financial stability, the period of time for which the modification would be necessary to facilitate compliance with this part, and the actions the Board-regulated institution is taking to come into compliance with this part.
[84 FR 59275, Nov. 1, 2019]
Subparts G-I [Reserved]

# Subpart J—Disclosures

# Source:
81 FR 94929, Dec. 27, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 249.90
Timing, method and retention of disclosures.
(a)
Applicability.
A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company that is subject to § 249.1 must disclose publicly all the information required under this subpart.
(b)
Timing of disclosure.
(1) A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must provide timely public disclosures each calendar quarter of all the information required under this subpart.
(2) A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company that is subject to this subpart must provide the disclosures required by this subpart beginning with the first calendar quarter that includes the date that is 18 months after the covered depository institution holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company first became subject to this subpart.
(c)
Disclosure method.
A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must disclose publicly, in a direct and prominent manner, the information required under this subpart on its public internet site or in its public financial or other public regulatory reports.
(d)
Availability.
The disclosures provided under this subpart must remain publicly available for at least five years after the initial disclosure date.
[81 FR 94929, Dec. 27, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 59276, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 249.91
Disclosure requirements.
(a)
General.
A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must disclose publicly the information required by paragraph (b) of this section in the format provided in the following table.
Table 1 to § 249.91(
a
)—Disclosure Template
XX/XX/XXXX to YY/YY/YYYY
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
Average
unweighted
amount
Average
weighted
amount
High-Quality Liquid Assets
1. Total eligible high-quality liquid assets (HQLA), of which:
2. Eligible level 1 liquid assets
3. Eligible level 2A liquid assets
4. Eligible level 2B liquid assets
Cash Outflow Amounts
5. Deposit outflow from retail customers and counterparties, of which:
6. Stable retail deposit outflow
7. Other retail funding
8. Brokered deposit outflow
9. Unsecured wholesale funding outflow, of which:
10. Operational deposit outflow
11. Non-operational funding outflow
12. Unsecured debt outflow
13. Secured wholesale funding and asset exchange outflow
14. Additional outflow requirements, of which:
15. Outflow related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements
16. Outflow related to credit and liquidity facilities including unconsolidated structured transactions and mortgage commitments
17. Other contractual funding obligation outflow
18. Other contingent funding obligations outflow
19. Total Cash Outflow
Cash Inflow Amounts
20. Secured lending and asset exchange cash inflow
21. Retail cash inflow
22. Unsecured wholesale cash inflow
23. Other cash inflows, of which:
24. Net derivative cash inflow
25. Securities cash inflow
26. Broker-dealer segregated account inflow
27. Other cash inflow
28. Total Cash Inflow
Average
amount
1
29. HQLA Amount
30. Total Net Cash Outflow Amount Excluding The Maturity Mismatch Add-On
31. Maturity Mismatch Add-On
32. Total Unadusted Net Cash Outflow Amount
33. Outflow Adjustment Percentage
34. Total Adjusted Net Cash Outflow Amount
35. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)
1
The amounts reported in this column may not equal the calculation of those amounts using component amounts reported in rows 1-28 due to technical factors such as the application of the level 2 liquid asset caps and the total inflow cap.
(b)
Calculation of disclosed average amounts
—(1)
General.
(i) A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must calculate its disclosed average amounts:
(A) On a consolidated basis and presented in millions of U.S. dollars or as a percentage, as applicable; and
(B) With the exception of amounts disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1), (5), (9), (14), (19), (23), and (28) of this section, as simple averages of daily amounts over the calendar quarter.
(ii) A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must disclose the beginning date and end date for each calendar quarter.
(2)
Calculation of average unweighted amounts.
(i) A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must calculate the average unweighted amount of HQLA as the average amount of eligible HQLA that meet the requirements specified in §§ 249.20 and 249.22 and is calculated prior to applying the haircuts required under § 249.21(b) to the amounts of eligible HQLA.
(ii) A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must
calculate the average unweighted amount of cash outflows and cash inflows before applying the outflow and inflow rates specified in §§ 249.32 and 249.33, respectively.
(3)
Calculation of average weighted amounts.
(i) A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must calculate the average weighted amount of HQLA after applying the haircuts required under § 249.21(b) to the amounts of eligible HQLA.
(ii) A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must calculate the average weighted amount of cash outflows and cash inflows after applying the outflow and inflow rates specified in §§ 249.32 and 249.33, respectively.
(c)
Quantitative disclosures.
A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must disclose all the information required under Table 1 to § 249.91(a)—Disclosure Template, including:
(1) The sum of the average unweighted amounts and average weighted amounts calculated under paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section (row 1);
(2) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of level 1 liquid assets that are eligible HQLA under § 249.21(b)(1) (row 2);
(3) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of level 2A liquid assets that are eligible HQLA under § 249.21(b)(2) (row 3);
(4) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of level 2B liquid assets that are eligible HQLA under § 249.21(b)(3) (row 4);
(5) The sum of the average unweighted amounts and average weighted amounts of cash outflows calculated under paragraphs (c)(6) through (8) of this section (row 5);
(6) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(a)(1) (row 6);
(7) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(a)(2) through (5) (row 7);
(8) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(g) (row 8);
(9) The sum of the average unweighted amounts and average weighted amounts of cash outflows calculated under paragraphs (c)(10) through (12) of this section (row 9);
(10) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(h)(3) and (4) (row 10);
(11) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(h)(1), (2), and (5), excluding (h)(2)(ii) (row 11);
(12) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(h)(2)(ii) (row 12);
(13) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(j) and (k) (row 13);
(14) The sum of the average unweighted amounts and average weighted amounts of cash outflows calculated under paragraphs (c)(15) and (16) of this section (row 14);
(15) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(c) and (f) (row 15);
(16) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(b), (d), and (e) (row 16);
(17) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(l) (row 17);
(18) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash outflows under § 249.32(i) (row 18);
(19) The sum of average unweighted amounts and average weighted amounts of cash outflows calculated under paragraphs (c)(5), (9), (13), (14), (17), and (18) of this section (row 19);
(20) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash inflows under § 249.33(f) (row 20);
(21) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash inflows under § 249.33(c) (row 21);
(22) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash inflows under § 249.33(d) (row 22);
(23) The sum of average unweighted amounts and average weighted amounts of cash inflows calculated
under paragraphs (c)(24) through (27) of this section (row 23);
(24) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash inflows under § 249.33(b) (row 24);
(25) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash inflows under § 249.33(e) (row 25);
(26) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash inflows under § 249.33(g) (row 26);
(27) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of cash inflows under § 249.33(h) (row 27);
(28) The sum of average unweighted amounts and average weighted amounts of cash inflows reported under paragraphs (c)(20) through (23) of this section (row 28);
(29) The average amount of the HQLA amounts as calculated under § 249.21(a) (row 29);
(30) The average amount of the total net cash outflow amounts excluding the maturity mismatch add-on as calculated under § 249.30(a)(1) and (2) (row 30);
(31) The average amount of the maturity mismatch add-ons as calculated under § 249.30(b) (row 31);
(32) The average amount of the total net cash outflow amount as calculated under § 249.30 prior to the application of the applicable outflow adjustment percentage described in Table 1 to § 249.30(c) (row 32);
(33) The applicable outflow adjustment percentage described in Table 1 to § 249.30(c) (row 33);
(34) The average amount of the total net cash outflow as calculated under § 249.30 (row 34); and
(35) The average of the liquidity coverage ratios as calculated under § 249.10(b) (row 35).
(d)
Qualitative disclosures.
(1) A covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart must provide a qualitative discussion of the factors that have a significant effect on its liquidity coverage ratio, which may include the following:
(i) The main drivers of the liquidity coverage ratio;
(ii) Changes in the liquidity coverage ratio over time and causes of such changes;
(iii) The composition of eligible HQLA;
(iv) Concentration of funding sources;
(v) Derivative exposures and potential collateral calls;
(vi) Currency mismatch in the liquidity coverage ratio; or
(vii) The centralized liquidity management function of the covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company and its interaction with other functional areas of the covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company.
(2) If a covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart believes that the qualitative discussion required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section would prejudice seriously its position by resulting in public disclosure of specific commercial or financial information that is either proprietary or confidential in nature, the covered depository institution holding company or covered nonbank company is not required to include those specific items in its qualitative discussion, but must provide more general information about the items that had a significant effect on its liquidity coverage ratio, together with the fact that, and the reason why, more specific information was not discussed.
[81 FR 94929, Dec. 27, 2016, as amended at 84 FR 59276, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart K—Net Stable Funding Ratio

# Source:
86 FR 9202, 9212, Feb. 11, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 249.100
Net stable funding ratio.
(a)
Minimum net stable funding ratio requirement.
A Board-regulated institution must maintain a net stable funding ratio that is equal to or greater than 1.0 on an ongoing basis in accordance with this subpart.
(b)
Calculation of the net stable funding ratio.
For purposes of this part, a Board-regulated institution's net stable funding ratio equals:
(1) The Board-regulated institution's available stable funding (ASF) amount,
calculated pursuant to § 249.103, as of the calculation date; divided by
(2) The Board-regulated institution's required stable funding (RSF) amount, calculated pursuant to § 249.105, as of the calculation date.
§ 249.101
Determining maturity.
For purposes of calculating its net stable funding ratio, including its ASF amount and RSF amount, under subparts K through N, a Board-regulated institution shall assume each of the following:
(a) With respect to any NSFR liability, the NSFR liability matures according to § 249.31(a)(1) of this part without regard to whether the NSFR liability is subject to § 249.32;
(b) With respect to an asset, the asset matures according to § 249.31(a)(2) of this part without regard to whether the asset is subject to § 249.33 of this part;
(c) With respect to an NSFR liability or asset that is perpetual, the NSFR liability or asset matures one year or more after the calculation date;
(d) With respect to an NSFR liability or asset that has an open maturity, the NSFR liability or asset matures on the first calendar day after the calculation date, except that in the case of a deferred tax liability, the NSFR liability matures on the first calendar day after the calculation date on which the deferred tax liability could be realized; and
(e) With respect to any principal payment of an NSFR liability or asset, such as an amortizing loan, that is due prior to the maturity of the NSFR liability or asset, the payment matures on the date on which it is contractually due.
§ 249.102
Rules of construction.
(a)
Balance-sheet metric.
Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, an NSFR regulatory capital element, NSFR liability, or asset that is not included on a Board-regulated institution's balance sheet is not assigned an RSF factor or ASF factor, as applicable; and an NSFR regulatory capital element, NSFR liability, or asset that is included on a Board-regulated institution's balance sheet is assigned an RSF factor or ASF factor, as applicable.
(b)
Netting of certain transactions.
Where a Board-regulated institution has secured lending transactions, secured funding transactions, or asset exchanges with the same counterparty and has offset the gross value of receivables due from the counterparty under the transactions by the gross value of payables under the transactions due to the counterparty, the receivables or payables associated with the offsetting transactions that are not included on the Board-regulated institution's balance sheet are treated as if they were included on the Board-regulated institution's balance sheet with carrying values, unless the criteria in 12 CFR 217.10(c)(2)(v)(A) through (C) are met.
(c)
Treatment of Securities Received in an Asset Exchange by a Securities Lender.
Where a Board-regulated institution receives a security in an asset exchange, acts as a securities lender, includes the carrying value of the received security on its balance sheet, and has not rehypothecated the security received:
(1) The security received by the Board-regulated institution is not assigned an RSF factor; and
(2) The obligation to return the security received by the Board-regulated institution is not assigned an ASF factor.
§ 249.103
Calculation of available stable funding amount.
A Board-regulated institution's ASF amount equals the sum of the carrying values of the Board-regulated institution's NSFR regulatory capital elements and NSFR liabilities, in each case multiplied by the ASF factor applicable in § 249.104 or § 249.107(c) and consolidated in accordance with § 249.109.
§ 249.104
ASF factors.
(a)
NSFR regulatory capital elements and NSFR liabilities assigned a 100 percent ASF factor.
An NSFR regulatory capital element or NSFR liability of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a 100 percent ASF factor if it is one of the following:
(1) An NSFR regulatory capital element; or
(2) An NSFR liability that has a maturity of one year or more from the
calculation date, is not described in paragraph (d)(9) of this section, and is not a retail deposit or brokered deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty.
(b)
NSFR liabilities assigned a 95 percent ASF factor.
An NSFR liability of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a 95 percent ASF factor if it is one of the following:
(1) A stable retail deposit (regardless of maturity or collateralization) held at the Board-regulated institution; or
(2) A sweep deposit that:
(i) Is deposited in accordance with a contract between the retail customer or counterparty and the Board-regulated institution, a controlled subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution, or a company that is a controlled subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the Board-regulated institution is a controlled subsidiary;
(ii) Is entirely covered by deposit insurance; and
(iii) The Board-regulated institution demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Board that a withdrawal of such deposit is highly unlikely to occur during a liquidity stress event.
(c)
NSFR liabilities assigned a 90 percent ASF factor.
An NSFR liability of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a 90 percent ASF factor if it is funding provided by a retail customer or counterparty that is:
(1) A retail deposit (regardless of maturity or collateralization) other than a stable retail deposit or brokered deposit;
(2) A brokered reciprocal deposit where the entire amount is covered by deposit insurance;
(3) A sweep deposit that is deposited in accordance with a contract between the retail customer or counterparty and the Board-regulated institution, a controlled subsidiary of the Board-regulated institution, or a company that is a controlled subsidiary of the same top-tier company of which the Board-regulated institution is a controlled subsidiary, where the sweep deposit does not meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or
(4) A brokered deposit that is not a brokered reciprocal deposit or a sweep deposit, that is not held in a transactional account, and that matures one year or more from the calculation date.
(d)
NSFR liabilities assigned a 50 percent ASF factor.
An NSFR liability of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a 50 percent ASF factor if it is one of the following:
(1) Unsecured wholesale funding that:
(i) Is not provided by a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) Matures less than one year from the calculation date; and
(iii) Is not a security issued by the Board-regulated institution or an operational deposit placed at the Board-regulated institution;
(2) A secured funding transaction with the following characteristics:
(i) The counterparty is not a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) The secured funding transaction matures less than one year from the calculation date; and
(iii) The secured funding transaction is not a collateralized deposit that is an operational deposit placed at the Board-regulated institution;
(3) Unsecured wholesale funding that:
(i) Is provided by a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) Matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date; and
(iii) Is not a security issued by the Board-regulated institution or an operational deposit;
(4) A secured funding transaction with the following characteristics:
(i) The counterparty is a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) The secured funding transaction matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date; and
(iii) The secured funding transaction is not a collateralized deposit that is an operational deposit;
(5) A security issued by the Board-regulated institution that matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date;
(6) An operational deposit placed at the Board-regulated institution;
(7) A brokered deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty that is not described in paragraphs (c) or (e)(2) of this section;
(8) A sweep deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty that is not described in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section;
(9) An NSFR liability owed to a retail customer or counterparty that is not a deposit and is not a security issued by the Board-regulated institution; or
(10) Any other NSFR liability that matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date and is not described in paragraphs (a) through (c) or (d)(1) through (d)(9) of this section.
(e)
NSFR liabilities assigned a zero percent ASF factor.
An NSFR liability of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a zero percent ASF factor if it is one of the following:
(1) A trade date payable that results from a purchase by the Board-regulated institution of a financial instrument, foreign currency, or commodity that is contractually required to settle within the lesser of the market standard settlement period for the particular transaction and five business days from the date of the sale;
(2) A brokered deposit provided by a retail customer or counterparty that is not a brokered reciprocal deposit or sweep deposit, is not held in a transactional account, and matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(3) A security issued by the Board-regulated institution that matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(4) An NSFR liability with the following characteristics:
(i) The counterparty is a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, or a central bank;
(ii) The NSFR liability matures less than six months from the calculation date or has an open maturity; and
(iii) The NSFR liability is not a security issued by the Board-regulated institution or an operational deposit placed at the Board-regulated institution; or
(5) Any other NSFR liability that matures less than six months from the calculation date and is not described in paragraphs (a) through (d) or (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
§ 249.105
Calculation of required stable funding amount.
(a)
Required stable funding amount.
A Board-regulated institution's RSF amount equals the Board-regulated institution's required stable funding adjustment percentage as determined under paragraph (b) of this section multiplied by the sum of:
(1) The carrying values of a Board-regulated institution's assets (other than amounts included in the calculation of the derivatives RSF amount pursuant to § 249.107(b)) and the undrawn amounts of a Board-regulated institution's credit and liquidity facilities, in each case multiplied by the RSF factors applicable in § 249.106; and
(2) The Board-regulated institution's derivatives RSF amount calculated pursuant to § 249.107(b).
(b)
Required stable funding adjustment percentage.
A Board-regulated institution's required stable funding adjustment percentage is determined pursuant to table 1 to this paragraph (b).
Table 1 to Paragraph (
b
)—Required Stable Funding Adjustment Percentages
Required stable funding adjustment percentage
Percent
Global systemically important BHC or GSIB depository institution
100
Category II Board-regulated institution
100
Category III Board-regulated institution with $75 billion or more in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and Category III Board-regulated institution that is a consolidated subsidiary of such a Board-regulated institution
100
Category III Board-regulated institution with less than $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding and any Category III Board-regulated institution that is a consolidated subsidiary of such a Category III Board-regulated institution
85
Category IV Board-regulated institution with $50 billion or more in average weighted short-term wholesale funding
70
(c)
Transition into a different required stable funding adjustment percentage.
(1) A Board-regulated institution whose required stable funding adjustment percentage increases from a lower to a higher required stable funding adjustment percentage may continue to use its previous lower required stable funding adjustment percentage until the first day of the third calendar quarter after the required stable funding adjustment percentage increases.
(2) A Board-regulated institution whose required stable funding adjustment percentage decreases from a higher to a lower required stable funding adjustment percentage must continue to use its previous higher required stable funding adjustment percentage until the first day of the first calendar quarter after the required stable funding adjustment percentage decreases.
§ 249.106
RSF factors.
(a)
Unencumbered assets and commitments.
All assets and undrawn amounts under credit and liquidity facilities, unless otherwise provided in § 249.107(b) relating to derivative transactions or paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, are assigned RSF factors as follows:
(1)
Unencumbered assets assigned a zero percent RSF factor.
An asset of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a zero percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) Currency and coin;
(ii) A cash item in the process of collection;
(iii) A Reserve Bank balance or other claim on a Reserve Bank that matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(iv) A claim on a foreign central bank that matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(v) A trade date receivable due to the Board-regulated institution resulting from the Board-regulated institution's sale of a financial instrument, foreign currency, or commodity that is required to settle no later than the market standard, without extension, for the particular transaction, and that has yet to settle but is not more than five business days past the scheduled settlement date;
(vi) Any other level 1 liquid asset not described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(v) of this section; or
(vii) A secured lending transaction with the following characteristics:
(A) The secured lending transaction matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(B) The secured lending transaction is secured by level 1 liquid assets;
(C) The borrower is a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof; and
(D) The Board-regulated institution retains the right to rehypothecate the collateral provided by the counterparty for the duration of the secured lending transaction.
(2)
Unencumbered assets and commitments assigned a 5 percent RSF factor.
An undrawn amount of a committed credit facility or committed liquidity facility extended by a Board-regulated institution is assigned a 5 percent RSF factor. For the purposes of this paragraph (a)(2), the undrawn amount of a committed credit facility or committed liquidity facility is the entire unused amount of the facility that could be drawn upon within one year of the calculation date under the governing agreement.
(3)
Unencumbered assets assigned a 15 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a 15 percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) A level 2A liquid asset; or
(ii) A secured lending transaction or unsecured wholesale lending with the following characteristics:
(A) The asset matures less than six months from the calculation date;
(B) The borrower is a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof; and
(C) The asset is not described in paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section and is not an operational deposit described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section.
(4)
Unencumbered assets assigned a 50 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a 50 percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) A level 2B liquid asset;
(ii) A secured lending transaction or unsecured wholesale lending with the following characteristics:
(A) The asset matures six months or more, but less than one year, from the calculation date;
(B) The borrower is a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary thereof, or a central bank; and
(C) The asset is not an operational deposit described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section;
(iii) An operational deposit placed by the Board-regulated institution at a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof; or
(iv) An asset that is not described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) or (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(iii) of this section that matures less than one year from the calculation date, including:
(A) A secured lending transaction or unsecured wholesale lending where the borrower is a wholesale customer or counterparty that is not a financial sector entity, a consolidated subsidiary thereof, or a central bank; or
(B) Lending to a retail customer or counterparty.
(5)
Unencumbered assets assigned a 65 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a 65 percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) A retail mortgage that matures one year or more from the calculation date and is assigned a risk weight of no greater than 50 percent under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217); or
(ii) A secured lending transaction, unsecured wholesale lending, or lending to a retail customer or counterparty with the following characteristics:
(A) The asset is not described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5)(i) of this section;
(B) The borrower is not a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof;
(C) The asset matures one year or more from the calculation date; and
(D) The asset is assigned a risk weight of no greater than 20 percent under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217).
(6)
Unencumbered assets assigned an 85 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a Board-regulated institution is assigned an 85 percent RSF factor if it is one of the following:
(i) A retail mortgage that matures one year or more from the calculation date and is assigned a risk weight of greater than 50 percent under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217);
(ii) A secured lending transaction, unsecured wholesale lending, or lending to a retail customer or counterparty with the following characteristics:
(A) The asset is not described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6)(i) of this section;
(B) The borrower is not a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof;
(C) The asset matures one year or more from the calculation date; and
(D) The asset is assigned a risk weight of greater than 20 percent under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217);
(iii) A publicly traded common equity share that is not HQLA;
(iv) A security, other than a publicly traded common equity share, that matures one year or more from the calculation date and is not HQLA; or
(v) A commodity for which derivative transactions are traded on a U.S. board of trade or trading facility designated as a contract market under sections 5 and 6 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7 and 8) or on a U.S. swap execution facility registered under section 5h of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 7b-3) or on another exchange, whether located in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States.
(7)
Unencumbered assets assigned a 100 percent RSF factor.
An asset of a Board-regulated institution is assigned a 100 percent RSF factor if it is not described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section, including a secured lending transaction or unsecured wholesale lending where the borrower is a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary thereof and that matures one year or more from the calculation date.
(b)
Nonperforming assets.
An RSF factor of 100 percent is assigned to any asset that is past due by more than 90 days or nonaccrual.
(c)
Encumbered assets.
An encumbered asset, unless otherwise provided in
§ 249.107(b) relating to derivative transactions, is assigned an RSF factor as follows:
(1)(i)
Encumbered assets with less than six months remaining in the encumbrance period.
For an encumbered asset with less than six months remaining in the encumbrance period, the same RSF factor is assigned to the asset as would be assigned if the asset were not encumbered.
(ii)
Encumbered assets with six months or more, but less than one year, remaining in the encumbrance period.
For an encumbered asset with six months or more, but less than one year, remaining in the encumbrance period:
(A) If the asset would be assigned an RSF factor of 50 percent or less under paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section if the asset were not encumbered, an RSF factor of 50 percent is assigned to the asset.
(B) If the asset would be assigned an RSF factor of greater than 50 percent under paragraphs (a)(5) through (a)(7) of this section if the asset were not encumbered, the same RSF factor is assigned to the asset as would be assigned if it were not encumbered.
(iii)
Encumbered assets with one year or more remaining in the encumbrance period.
For an encumbered asset with one year or more remaining in the encumbrance period, an RSF factor of 100 percent is assigned to the asset.
(2)
Assets encumbered for period longer than remaining maturity.
If an asset is encumbered for an encumbrance period longer than the asset's maturity, the asset is assigned an RSF factor under paragraph (c)(1) of this section based on the length of the encumbrance period.
(3)
Segregated account assets.
An asset held in a segregated account maintained pursuant to statutory or regulatory requirements for the protection of customer assets is not considered encumbered for purposes of this paragraph solely because such asset is held in the segregated account.
(d)
Off-balance sheet rehypothecated assets.
When an NSFR liability of a Board-regulated institution is secured by an off-balance sheet asset or results from the Board-regulated institution selling an off-balance sheet asset (for instance, in the case of a short sale), other than an off-balance sheet asset received by the Board-regulated institution as variation margin under a derivative transaction:
(1) If the Board-regulated institution received the off-balance sheet asset under a lending transaction, an RSF factor is assigned to the lending transaction as if it were encumbered for the longer of:
(i) The remaining maturity of the NSFR liability; and
(ii) Any other encumbrance period applicable to the lending transaction;
(2) If the Board-regulated institution received the off-balance sheet asset under an asset exchange, an RSF factor is assigned to the asset provided by the Board-regulated institution in the asset exchange as if the provided asset were encumbered for the longer of:
(i) The remaining maturity of the NSFR liability; and
(ii) Any other encumbrance period applicable to the provided asset; or
(3) If the Board-regulated institution did not receive the off-balance sheet asset under a lending transaction or asset exchange, an RSF factor is assigned to the on-balance sheet asset resulting from the rehypothecation of the off-balance sheet asset as if the on-balance sheet asset were encumbered for the longer of:
(i) The remaining maturity of the NSFR liability; and
(ii) Any other encumbrance period applicable to the transaction through which the off-balance sheet asset was received.
§ 249.107
Calculation of NSFR derivatives amounts.
(a)
General requirement.
A Board-regulated institution must calculate its derivatives RSF amount and certain components of its ASF amount relating to the Board-regulated institution's derivative transactions (which includes cleared derivative transactions of a customer with respect to which the Board-regulated institution is acting as agent for the customer that are included on the Board-regulated institution's balance sheet under GAAP) in accordance with this section.
(b)
Calculation of required stable funding amount relating to derivative transactions.
A Board-regulated institution's
derivatives RSF amount equals the sum of:
(1)
Current derivative transaction values.
The Board-regulated institution's NSFR derivatives asset amount, as calculated under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, multiplied by an RSF factor of 100 percent;
(2)
Variation margin provided.
The carrying value of variation margin provided by the Board-regulated institution under each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set, to the extent the variation margin reduces the Board-regulated institution's derivatives liability value under the derivative transaction or QMNA netting set, as calculated under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, multiplied by an RSF factor of zero percent;
(3)
Excess variation margin provided.
The carrying value of variation margin provided by the Board-regulated institution under each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set in excess of the amount described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for each derivative transaction or QMNA netting set, multiplied by the RSF factor assigned to each asset comprising the variation margin pursuant to § 249.106;
(4)
Variation margin received.
The carrying value of variation margin received by the Board-regulated institution, multiplied by the RSF factor assigned to each asset comprising the variation margin pursuant to § 249.106;
(5)
Potential valuation changes.
(i) An amount equal to 5 percent of the sum of the gross derivative values of the Board-regulated institution that are liabilities, as calculated under paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, for each of the Board-regulated institution's derivative transactions not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each of its QMNA netting sets, multiplied by an RSF factor of 100 percent;
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (5)(i) of this section, the gross derivative value of a derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement or of a QMNA netting set is equal to the value to the Board-regulated institution, calculated as if no variation margin had been exchanged and no settlement payments had been made based on changes in the value of the derivative transaction or QMNA netting set.
(6)
Contributions to central counterparty mutualized loss sharing arrangements.
The fair value of a Board-regulated institution's contribution to a central counterparty's mutualized loss sharing arrangement (regardless of whether the contribution is included on the Board-regulated institution's balance sheet), multiplied by an RSF factor of 85 percent; and
(7)
Initial margin provided.
The fair value of initial margin provided by the Board-regulated institution for derivative transactions (regardless of whether the initial margin is included on the Board-regulated institution's balance sheet), which does not include initial margin provided by the Board-regulated institution for cleared derivative transactions with respect to which the Board-regulated institution is acting as agent for a customer and the Board-regulated institution does not guarantee the obligations of the customer's counterparty to the customer under the derivative transaction (such initial margin would be assigned an RSF factor pursuant to § 249.106 to the extent the initial margin is included on the Board-regulated institution's balance sheet), multiplied by an RSF factor equal to the higher of 85 percent or the RSF factor assigned to each asset comprising the initial margin pursuant to § 249.106.
(c)
Calculation of available stable funding amount relating to derivative transactions.
The following amounts of a Board-regulated institution are assigned a zero percent ASF factor:
(1) The Board-regulated institution's NSFR derivatives liability amount, as calculated under paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and
(2) The carrying value of NSFR liabilities in the form of an obligation to return initial margin or variation margin received by the Board-regulated institution.
(d)
Calculation of NSFR derivatives asset or liability amount.
(1) A Board-regulated institution's NSFR derivatives asset amount is the greater of:
(i) Zero; and
(ii) The Board-regulated institution's total derivatives asset amount, as calculated under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, less the Board-regulated institution's total derivatives liability amount, as calculated under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(2) A Board-regulated institution's NSFR derivatives liability amount is the greater of:
(i) Zero; and
(ii) The Board-regulated institution's total derivatives liability amount, as calculated under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, less the Board-regulated institution's total derivatives asset amount, as calculated under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(e)
Calculation of total derivatives asset and liability amounts.
(1) A Board-regulated institution's total derivatives asset amount is the sum of the Board-regulated institution's derivatives asset values, as calculated under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, for each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set.
(2) A Board-regulated institution's total derivatives liability amount is the sum of the Board-regulated institution's derivatives liability values, as calculated under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, for each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set.
(f)
Calculation of derivatives asset and liability values.
For each derivative transaction not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each QMNA netting set:
(1) The derivatives asset value is equal to the asset value to the Board-regulated institution, after taking into account:
(i) Any variation margin received by the Board-regulated institution that is in the form of cash and meets the following conditions:
(A) The variation margin is not segregated;
(B) The variation margin is received in connection with a derivative transaction that is governed by a QMNA or other contract between the counterparties to the derivative transaction, which stipulates that the counterparties agree to settle any payment obligations on a net basis, taking into account any variation margin received or provided;
(C) The variation margin is calculated and transferred on a daily basis based on mark-to-fair value of the derivative contract; and
(D) The variation margin is in a currency specified as an acceptable currency to settle obligations in the relevant governing contract; and
(ii) Any variation margin received by the Board-regulated institution that is in the form of level 1 liquid assets and meets the conditions of paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section provided the Board-regulated institution retains the right to rehypothecate the asset for the duration of time that the asset is posted as variation margin to the Board-regulated institution; or
(2) The derivatives liability value is equal to the liability value of the Board-regulated institution, after taking into account any variation margin provided by the Board-regulated institution.
§ 249.108
Funding related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
(a)
Treatment of Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding.
Notwithstanding any other section of this part and except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, available stable funding amounts and required stable funding amounts related to Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding and the assets securing Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding are excluded from the calculation of a Board-regulated institution's net stable funding ratio calculated under § 249.100(b).
(b)
Exception.
To the extent the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding is secured by securities, debt obligations, or other instruments issued by the Board-regulated institution or one of its consolidated subsidiaries, the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding and assets securing the Covered Federal Reserve Facility Funding are not subject to paragraph (a) of this section and the available stable funding amount and required stable funding amount must be included in the Board-regulated institution's net stable funding ratio calculated under § 249.100(b).
§ 249.109
Rules for consolidation.
(a)
Consolidated subsidiary available stable funding amount.
For available stable funding of a legal entity that is a consolidated subsidiary of a Board-regulated institution, including a consolidated subsidiary organized under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, the Board-regulated institution may include the available stable funding of the consolidated subsidiary in its ASF amount up to:
(1) The RSF amount of the consolidated subsidiary, as calculated by the Board-regulated institution for the Board-regulated institution's net stable funding ratio under this part; plus
(2) Any amount in excess of the RSF amount of the consolidated subsidiary, as calculated by the Board-regulated institution for the Board-regulated institution's net stable funding ratio under this part, to the extent the consolidated subsidiary may transfer assets to the top-tier Board-regulated institution, taking into account statutory, regulatory, contractual, or supervisory restrictions, such as sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c and 12 U.S.C. 371c-1) and Regulation W (12 CFR part 223).
(b)
Required consolidation procedures.
To the extent a Board-regulated institution includes an ASF amount in excess of the RSF amount of the consolidated subsidiary, the Board-regulated institution must implement and maintain written procedures to identify and monitor applicable statutory, regulatory, contractual, supervisory, or other restrictions on transferring assets from any of its consolidated subsidiaries. These procedures must document which types of transactions the Board-regulated institution could use to transfer assets from a consolidated subsidiary to the Board-regulated institution and how these types of transactions comply with applicable statutory, regulatory, contractual, supervisory, or other restrictions.

# Subpart L—Net Stable Funding Shortfall

# Source:
86 FR 9202, 9212, Feb. 11, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 249.110
NSFR shortfall: Supervisory framework.
(a)
Notification requirements.
A Board-regulated institution must notify the Board no later than 10 business days, or such other period as the Board may otherwise require by written notice, following the date that any event has occurred that would cause or has caused the Board-regulated institution's net stable funding ratio to be less than 1.0 as required under § 249.100.
(b)
Liquidity Plan.
(1) A Board-regulated institution must within 10 business days, or such other period as the Board may otherwise require by written notice, provide to the Board a plan for achieving a net stable funding ratio equal to or greater than 1.0 as required under § 249.100 if:
(i) The Board-regulated institution has or should have provided notice, pursuant to § 249.110(a), that the Board-regulated institution's net stable funding ratio is, or will become, less than 1.0 as required under § 249.100;
(ii) The Board-regulated institution's reports or disclosures to the Board indicate that the Board-regulated institution's net stable funding ratio is less than 1.0 as required under § 249.100; or
(iii) The Board notifies the Board-regulated institution in writing that a plan is required and provides a reason for requiring such a plan.
(2) The plan must include, as applicable:
(i) An assessment of the Board-regulated institution's liquidity profile;
(ii) The actions the Board-regulated institution has taken and will take to achieve a net stable funding ratio equal to or greater than 1.0 as required under § 249.100, including:
(A) A plan for adjusting the Board-regulated institution's liquidity profile;
(B) A plan for remediating any operational or management issues that contributed to noncompliance with subpart K of this part; and
(iii) An estimated time frame for achieving full compliance with § 249.100.
(3) The Board-regulated institution must report to the Board at least monthly, or such other frequency as required by the Board, on progress to achieve full compliance with § 249.100.
(c)
Supervisory and enforcement actions.
The Board may, at its discretion, take additional supervisory or enforcement actions to address noncompliance with the minimum net stable funding ratio and other requirements of subparts K through N of this part (see also § 249.2(c)).

# Subpart M—Transitions
§ 249.120
Transitions.
(a)
Initial application.
(1) A Board-regulated institution that initially becomes subject to the minimum net stable funding requirement under § 249.1(b)(1)(i) or (ii) after July 1, 2021, must comply with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part beginning on the first day of the third calendar quarter after which the Board-regulated institution becomes subject to this part.
(2) A Board-regulated institution that becomes subject to the minimum net stable funding requirement under § 249.1(b)(1)(iii) must comply with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part subject to a transition period specified by the Board.
(b)
Transition to a different required stable funding adjustment percentage.
(1) A Board-regulated institution whose required stable funding adjustment percentage changes is subject to the transition periods as set forth in § 249.105(c).
(2) A Board-regulated institution that is no longer subject to the minimum stable funding requirement of this part pursuant to § 249.1(b)(1)(i) or (ii) based on the size of total consolidated assets, cross-jurisdictional activity, total nonbank assets, weighted short-term wholesale funding, or off-balance sheet exposure calculated in accordance with the Call Report, or instructions to the FR Y-9LP, the FR Y-15, or equivalent reporting form, as applicable, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters may cease compliance with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part as of the first day of the first calendar quarter after it is no longer subject to § 249.1(b).
(c)
Reservation of authority.
The Board may extend or accelerate any compliance date of this part if the Board determines such extension or acceleration is appropriate. In determining whether an extension or acceleration is appropriate, the Board will consider the effect of the modification on financial stability, the period of time for which the modification would be necessary to facilitate compliance with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part, and the actions the Board-regulated institution is taking to come into compliance with the requirements of subparts K through N of this part.
[86 FR 9213, Feb. 11, 2021]

# Subpart N—NSFR Public Disclosure

# Source:
86 FR 9213, Feb. 11, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 249.130
Timing, method, and retention of disclosures.
(a)
Applicability.
A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company that is subject to the minimum stable funding requirement in § 249.100 of this part must publicly disclose the information required under this subpart.
(b)
Timing of disclosure.
(1) A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company that is subject to the minimum stable funding requirement in § 249.100 of this part must provide timely public disclosures every second and fourth calendar quarter of all of the information required under this subpart for each of the two immediately preceding calendar quarters.
(2) A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank holding company that is subject to this subpart must provide the disclosures required by this subpart beginning with the first calendar quarter that includes the date that is 18 months after the covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company first became subject to the minimum stable funding requirement in § 249.100 of this part.
(c)
Disclosure method.
A covered depository institution holding company,
U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company must publicly disclose, in a direct and prominent manner, the information required under this subpart on its public internet site or in its public financial or other public regulatory reports.
(d)
Availability.
The disclosures provided under this subpart must remain publicly available for at least five years after the initial disclosure date.
§ 249.131
Disclosure requirements.
(a)
General.
A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company must publicly disclose the information required by this subpart in the format provided in Table 1 to this paragraph:
ER11FE21.000
ER11FE21.001
ER11FE21.002
(b)
Calculation of disclosed average amounts
—(1)
General.
(i) A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company must calculate its disclosed amounts:
(A) On a consolidated basis and presented in millions of U.S. dollars or as a percentage, as applicable; and
(B) As simple averages of daily amounts for each calendar quarter.
(ii) A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company must disclose the beginning date and end date for each calendar quarter.
(2)
Calculation of unweighted amounts.
(i) For each component of a covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's ASF amount calculation, other than the NSFR derivatives liability amount and total derivatives liability amount, the “unweighted amount” means the sum of the carrying values of the covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's NSFR regulatory capital elements and NSFR liabilities, as applicable, determined before applying the appropriate ASF factors, and subdivided into the following maturity categories, as applicable: Open maturity; less than six months after the calculation date; six months or more, but less than one year, after the calculation date; one year or more after the calculation date; and perpetual.
(ii) For each component of a covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's RSF amount calculation, other than amounts included in paragraphs (c)(2)(xvi) through (xix) of this section, the “unweighted amount” means the sum of the carrying values of the covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's assets and undrawn amounts of committed credit facilities and committed liquidity facilities extended by the covered depository institution holding company, or U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company, as applicable, determined before applying the appropriate RSF factors, and subdivided by maturity into the following maturity categories, as applicable: Open maturity; less than six months after the calculation date; six months or more, but less than one year, after the calculation date; one year or more after the calculation date; and perpetual.
(3)
Calculation of weighted amounts.
(i) For each component of a covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's ASF amount calculation, other than the NSFR derivatives liability amount and total derivatives liability amount, the “weighted amount” means the sum of the carrying values of the covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's NSFR regulatory capital elements and NSFR liabilities, as applicable, multiplied by the appropriate ASF factors.
(ii) For each component of a covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's RSF amount calculation, other than amounts included in paragraphs (c)(2)(xvi) through (xix) of this section, the “weighted amount” means the sum of the carrying values of the covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's assets and undrawn amounts of committed credit facilities and committed liquidity facilities extended by the covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company, multiplied by the appropriate RSF factors.
(c)
Quantitative disclosures.
A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company must disclose all of the information required under Table 1 to paragraph (a) of this section including:
(1) Disclosures of ASF amount calculations:
(i) The sum of the average weighted amounts and, for each applicable maturity category, the sum of the average unweighted amounts of paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section (row 1);
(ii) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of NSFR regulatory capital elements described in § 249.104(a)(1) (row 2);
(iii) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of securities described in §§ 249.104(a)(2), 249.104(d)(5), and 249.104(e)(3) (row 3);
(iv) The sum of the average weighted amounts and, for each applicable maturity category, the sum of the average unweighted amounts of paragraphs (c)(1)(v) through (viii) of this section (row 4);
(v) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of stable retail deposits and sweep deposits held at the covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company described in § 249.104(b) (row 5);
(vi) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of retail deposits other than stable retail deposits or brokered deposits, described in § 249.104(c)(1) (row 6);
(vii) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of sweep deposits, brokered reciprocal deposits, and brokered deposits provided by a retail customer or counterparty described in §§ 249.104(c)(2), 249.104(c)(3), 249.104(c)(4),
249.104(d)(7), 249.104(d)(8) and 249.104(e)(2) (row 7);
(viii) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of other funding provided by a retail customer or counterparty described in § 249.104(d)(9) (row 8);
(ix) The sum of the average weighted amounts and, for each applicable maturity category, the sum of the average unweighted amounts of paragraphs (c)(1)(x) and (xi) of this section (row 9);
(x) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of operational deposits placed at the covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company described in § 249.104(d)(6) (row 10);
(xi) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of other wholesale funding described in §§ 249.104(a)(2), 249.104(d)(1), 249.104(d)(2), 249.104(d)(3), 249.104(d)(4), 249.104(d)(10), and 249.104(e)(4) (row 11);
(xii) In the “unweighted” cell, the average amount of the NSFR derivatives liability amount described in § 249.107(d)(2) (row 12);
(xiii) In the “unweighted” cell, the average amount of the total derivatives liability amount described in § 249.107(e)(2) (row 13);
(xiv) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of all other liabilities not included in amounts disclosed under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (xiii) of this section (row 14);
(xv) The average amount of the ASF amount described in § 249.103 (row 15);
(2) Disclosures of RSF amount calculations, including to reflect any encumbrances under §§ 249.106(c) and 249.106(d):
(i) The sum of the average weighted amounts and the sum of the average unweighted amounts of paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section (row 16);
(ii) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of level 1 liquid assets described in §§ 249.106(a)(1) (row 17);
(iii) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of level 2A liquid assets described in § 249.106(a)(3)(i) (row 18);
(iv) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of level 2B liquid assets described in § 249.106(a)(4)(i) (row 19);
(v) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of assets described in § 249.106(a)(1), other than level 1 liquid assets included in amounts disclosed under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section or secured lending transactions included in amounts disclosed under paragraph (c)(2)(viii) of this section (row 20);
(vi) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of operational deposits placed at financial sector entities or consolidated subsidiaries thereof described in § 249.106(a)(4)(iii) (row 21);
(vii) The sum of the average weighted amounts and, for each applicable maturity category, the sum of the average unweighted amounts of paragraphs (c)(2)(viii), (ix), (x), (xii), and (xiv) of this section (row 22);
(viii) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of secured lending transactions where the borrower is a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity and the secured lending transaction is secured by level 1 liquid assets, described in §§ 249.106(a)(1)(vii), 249.106(a)(3)(ii), 249.106(a)(4)(ii), and 249.106(a)(7) (row 23);
(ix) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of secured lending transactions that are secured by assets other than level 1 liquid assets and unsecured wholesale lending, in each case where the borrower is a financial sector entity or a consolidated subsidiary of a financial sector entity, described in §§ 249.106(a)(3)(ii), 249.106(a)(4)(ii), and 249.106(a)(7) (row 24);
(x) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of secured lending transactions and unsecured wholesale lending to wholesale customers or counterparties that are not financial sector entities or consolidated subsidiaries thereof, and lending to retail customers and counterparties other than retail mortgages, described in §§ 249.106(a)(4)(iv), 249.106(a)(5)(ii), and 249.106(a)(6)(ii) (row 25);
(xi) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of secured lending transactions, unsecured wholesale lending, and lending to retail customers or counterparties that are assigned a risk weight of no greater than 20 percent under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217) described in §§ 249.106(a)(4)(ii), 249.106(a)(4)(iv), and 249.106(a)(5)(ii) (row 26);
(xii) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of retail mortgages described in §§ 249.106(a)(4)(iv), 249.106(a)(5)(i), and 249.106(a)(6)(i) (row 27);
(xiii) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of retail mortgages assigned a risk weight of no greater than 50 percent under subpart D of Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217) described in §§ 249.106(a)(4)(iv) and 249.106(a)(5)(i) (row 28);
(xiv) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of publicly traded common equity shares and other securities that are not HQLA and are not nonperforming assets described in §§ 249.106(a)(6)(iii), and 249.106(a)(6)(iv) (row 29);
(xv) The average weighted amount and average unweighted amount of commodities described in §§ 249.106(a)(6)(v) and 249.106(a)(7) (row 30);
(xvi) The average unweighted amount and average weighted amount of the sum of (A) assets contributed by the covered depository institution holding company to a central counterparty's mutualized loss-sharing arrangement described in § 249.107(b)(6) (in which case the “unweighted amount” shall equal the fair value and the “weighted amount” shall equal the unweighted amount multiplied by 85 percent) and (B) assets provided as initial margin by the covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company for derivative transactions described in § 249.107(b)(7) (in which case the “unweighted amount” shall equal the fair value and the “weighted amount” shall equal the unweighted amount multiplied by the higher of 85 percent or the RSF factor assigned to the asset pursuant to § 249.106) (row 31);
(xvii) In the “unweighted” cell, the covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's average amount of the NSFR derivatives asset amount under § 249.107(d)(1) and in the “weighted” cell, the covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's average amount of the NSFR derivatives asset amount under § 249.107(d)(1) multiplied by 100 percent (row 32);
(xviii) In the “unweighted” cell, the covered depository institution holding company's, U.S. intermediate holding company's, or covered nonbank company's average amount of the total derivatives asset amount described in § 249.107(e)(1) (row 33);
(xix) (A) In the “unweighted” cell, the average amount of the sum of the gross derivative liability values of the covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company that are liabilities for each of its derivative transactions not subject to a qualifying master netting agreement and each of its QMNA netting sets, described in § 249.107(b)(5), and (B) in the “weighted” cell, such sum multiplied by 5 percent, as described in § 249.107(b)(5) (row 34);
(xx) The average weighted amount and, for each applicable maturity category, the average unweighted amount of all other asset amounts not included in amounts disclosed under paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (xix) of this section, including nonperforming assets (row 35);
(xxi) The average weighted and unweighted amount of undrawn credit and liquidity facilities described in § 249.106(a)(2) (row 36);
(xxii) The average amount of the RSF amount as calculated in § 249.105(a) prior to the application of the applicable required stable funding adjustment percentage in § 249.105(b) (row 37);
(xxiii) The applicable required stable funding adjustment percentage described in Table 1 to § 249.105(b) (row 38);
(xxiv) The average amount of the RSF amount as calculated under § 249.105 (row 39);
(3) The average of the net stable funding ratios as calculated under § 249.100(b) (row 40);
(d)
Qualitative disclosures.
(1) A covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company must provide a qualitative discussion of the factors that have a significant effect on its net stable funding ratio, which may include the following:
(i) The main drivers of the net stable funding ratio;
(ii) Changes in the net stable funding ratio results over time and the causes of such changes (for example, changes in strategies and circumstances);
(iii) Concentrations of funding sources and changes in funding structure; or
(iv) Concentrations of available and required stable funding within a covered company's corporate structure (for example, across legal entities).
(2) If a covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company subject to this subpart believes that the qualitative discussion required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section would prejudice seriously its position by resulting in public disclosure of specific commercial or financial information that is either proprietary or confidential in nature, the covered depository institution holding company, U.S. intermediate holding company, or covered nonbank company is not required to include those specific items in its qualitative discussion, but must provide more general information about the items that had a significant effect on its net stable funding ratio, together with the fact that, and the reason why, more specific information was not discussed.
Pt. 250

# PART 250—MISCELLANEOUS INTERPRETATIONS

# Interpretations
Sec.
250.141
Member bank purchase of stock of “operations subsidiaries.”
250.142
Meaning of “obligor or maker” in determining limitation on securities investments by member State banks.
250.143
Member bank purchase of stock of foreign operations subsidiaries.
250.160
Federal funds transactions.
250.163
Inapplicability of amount limitations to “ineligible acceptances.”
250.164
Bankers' acceptances.
250.165
Bankers' acceptances: definition of participations.
250.166
Treatment of mandatory convertible debt and subordinated notes of state member banks and bank holding companies as “capital”.
250.180
Reports of changes in control of management.
250.181
Reports of change in control of bank management incident to a merger.
250.182
Terms defining competitive effects of proposed mergers.
250.200
Investment in bank premises by holding company banks.
250.220
Whether member bank acting as trustee is prohibited by section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 from acquiring majority of shares of mutual fund.
250.221
Issuance and sale of short-term debt obligations by bank holding companies.
250.260
Miscellaneous interpretations; gold coin and bullion.

# Interpretations of Section 32 of the Glass-Steagall Act
250.400
Service of open-end investment company.
250.401
Director serving member bank and closed-end investment company being organized.
250.402
Service as officer, director, or employee of licensee corporation under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
250.403
Service of member bank and real estate investment company.
250.404
Serving as director of member bank and corporation selling own stock.
250.405
No exception granted a special or limited partner.
250.406
Serving member bank and investment advisor with mutual fund affiliation.
250.407
Interlocking relationship involving securities affiliate of brokerage firm.
250.408
Short-term negotiable notes of banks not securities under section 32, Banking Act of 1933.
250.409
Investment for own account affects applicability of section 32.
250.410
Interlocking relationships between bank and its commingled investment account.
250.411
Interlocking relationships between member bank and variable annuity insurance company.
250.412
Interlocking relationships between member bank and insurance company-mutual fund complex.
250.413
“Bank-eligible” securities activities.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 78, 248(i), 371c(f) and 371c-1(e).

# Source:
33 FR 9866, July 10, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

# Interpretations
§ 250.141
Member bank purchase of stock of “operations subsidiaries.”
(a) The Board of Governors has reexamined its position that the so-called “stock-purchase prohibition” of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24), which is made applicable to member State banks by the 20th paragraph of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 335), forbids the purchase by a member bank “for its own account of any shares of stock of any corporation” (the statutory language), except as specifically permitted by provisions of Federal law or as comprised within the concept of “such incidental powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of banking”, referred to in the first sentence of paragraph “Seventh” of R.S. 5136.
(b) In 1966 the Board expressed the view that said incidental powers do not permit member banks to purchase stock of “operations subsidiaries”—that is, organizations designed to serve, in effect, as separately-incorporated departments of the bank, performing, at locations at which the bank is authorized to engage in business, functions that the bank is empowered to perform directly. (See 1966 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1151.)
(c) The Board now considers that the incidental powers clause permits a bank to organize its operations in the manner that it believes best facilitates the performance thereof. One method of organization is through departments; another is through separate incorporation of particular operations. In other words, a wholly owned subsidiary corporation engaged in activities that the bank itself may perform is simply a convenient alternative organizational arrangement.
(d) Reexamination of the apparent purposes and legislative history of the stock-purchase prohibition referred to above has led the Board to conclude that such prohibition should not be interpreted to preclude a member bank from adopting such an organizational arrangement unless its use would be inconsistent with other Federal law, either statutory or judicial.
(e) In view of the relationship between the operation of certain subsidiaries and the branch banking laws, the Board has also reexamined its rulings on what constitutes “money lent” for the purposes of section 5155 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 36), which provides that “The term
branch
* * * shall be held to include any branch bank, branch office, branch agency, additional office, or any branch place of business * * * at which deposits are received, or checks paid, or money lent.”
1
1
In the Board's judgment, the statutory enumeration of three specific functions that establish branch status is not meant to be exclusive but to assure that offices at which any of these functions is performed are regarded as branches by the bank regulatory authorities. In applying the statute the emphasis should be to assure that significant banking functions are made available to the public only at governmentally authorized offices.
(f) The Board noted in its 1967 interpretation that offices that are open to the public and staffed by employees of the bank who regularly engage in soliciting borrowers, negotiating terms, and processing applications for loans (so-called
loan production offices
) constitute branches. (1967 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1334.) The Board also noted that later in that year it considered the question whether a bank holding company may acquire the stock of a so-called
mortgage company
on the basis that the company would be engaged in “furnishing services to or performing services for such bank holding company or its banking subsidiaries” (the so-called
servicing exemption
of section
4(c)(1)(C) of the Bank Holding Company Act; 12 U.S.C. 1843). In concluding affirmatively, the Board stated that “the appropriate test for determining whether the company may be considered as within the servicing exemption is whether the company will perform as principal any banking activities—such as receiving deposits, paying checks, extending credit, conducting a trust department, and the like. In other words, if the mortgage company is to act merely as an adjunct to a bank for the purpose of facilitating the bank's operations, the company may appropriately be considered as within the scope of the servicing exemption.” (1967 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1911; 12 CFR 225.122.)
(g) The Board believes that the purposes of the branch banking laws and the servicing exemption are related. Generally, what constitutes a branch does not constitute a servicing organization and, vice versa, an office that only performs servicing functions should not be considered a branch. (See 1958 Federal Reserve Bulletin 431, last paragraph; 12 CFR 225.104(e).) When viewed together, the above-cited interpretations on loan production offices and mortgage companies represent a departure from this principle. In reconsidering the laws involved, the Board has concluded that a test similar to that adopted with respect to the servicing exemption under the Bank Holding Company Act is appropriate for use in determining whether or not what constitutes
money [is] lent
at a particular office, for the purpose of the Federal branch banking laws.
(h) Accordingly, the Board considers that the following activities, individually or collectively, do not constitute the lending of money within the meaning of section 5155 of the revised statutes: Soliciting loans on behalf of a bank (or a branch thereof), assembling credit information, making property inspections and appraisals, securing title information, preparing applications for loans (including making recommendations with respect to action thereon), soliciting investors to purchase loans from the bank, seeking to have such investors contract with the bank for the servicing of such loans, and other similar agent-type activities. When loans are approved and funds disbursed solely at the main office or a branch of the bank, an office at which only preliminary and servicing steps are taken is not a place where
money [is] lent.
Because preliminary and servicing steps of the kinds described do not constitute the performance of significant banking functions of the type that Congress contemplated should be performed only at governmentally approved offices, such office is accordingly not a branch.
(i) To summarize the foregoing, the Board has concluded that, insofar as Federal law is concerned, a member bank may purchase for its own account shares of a corporation to perform, at locations at which the bank is authorized to engage in business, functions that the bank is empowered to perform directly. Also, a member bank may establish and operate, at any location in the United States, a
loan production office
of the type described herein. Such offices may be established and operated by the bank either directly, or indirectly through a wholly-owned subsidiary corporation.
(j) This interpretation supersedes both the Board's 1966 ruling on
operations subsidiaries
and its 1967 ruling on
loan production offices,
referred to above.
(12 U.S.C. 24, 36, 321, 335)
[33 FR 11813, Aug. 21, 1968; 43 FR 53414, Nov. 16, 1978]
§ 250.142
Meaning of “obligor or maker” in determining limitation on securities investments by member State banks.
(a) From time to time the New York State Dormitory Authority offers issues of bonds with respect to each of which a different educational institution enters into an agreement to make
rental
payments to the Authority sufficient to cover interest and principal thereon when due. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has been asked whether a member State bank may invest up to 10 percent of its capital and surplus in each such issue.
(b) Paragraph Seventh of section 5136 of the U.S. Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24) provides that “In no event shall the
total amount of the investment securities of any one obligor or maker, held by [a national bank] for its own account, exceed at any time 10 per centum of its capital stock * * * and surplus fund”. That limitation is made applicable to member State banks by the 20th paragraph of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 335).
(c) The Board considers that, within the meaning of these provisions of law,
obligor
does not include any person that acts solely as a conduit for transmission of funds received from another source, irrespective of a promise by such person to pay principal or interest on the obligation. While an obligor does not cease to be such merely because a third person has agreed to pay the obligor amounts sufficient to cover principal and interest on the obligations when due, a person that promises to pay an obligation, but as a practical matter has no resources with which to assume payment of the obligation except the amounts received from such third person, is not an
obligor
within the meaning of section 5136.
(d) Review of the New York Dormitory Authority Act (N.Y. Public Authorities Law sections 1675-1690), the Authority's interpretation thereof, and materials with respect to the Authority's “Revenue Bonds, Mills College of Education Issue, Series A” indicates that the Authority is not an
obligor
on those and similar bonds. Although the Authority promises to make all payments of principal and interest, a bank that invests in such bonds cannot be reasonably considered as doing so in reliance on the promise and responsibility of the Authority. Despite the Authority's obligation to make payments on the bonds, if the particular college fails to perform its agreement to make rental payments to the Authority sufficient to cover all payments of bond principal and interest when due, as a practical matter the sole source of funds for payments to the bondholder is the particular college. The Authority has general borrowing power but no resources from which to assure repayment of any borrowing except from the particular colleges, and rentals received from one college may not be used to service bonds issued for another.
(e) Accordingly, the Board has concluded that each college for which the Authority issues obligations is the sole
obligor
thereon. A member State bank may therefore invest an amount up to 10 percent of its capital and surplus in the bonds of a particular college that are eligible investments under the Investment Securities Regulation of the Comptroller of the Currency (12 CFR Part 1), whether issued directly or indirectly through the Dormitory Authority.
(12 U.S.C. 24, 335)
§ 250.143
Member bank purchase of stock of foreign operations subsidiaries.
(a) In a previous interpretation, the Board determined that a State member bank would not violate the “stock-purchase prohibition” of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24 ¶ 7) by purchasing and holding the shares of a corporation which performs “at locations at which the bank is authorized to engage in business, functions that the bank is empowered to perform directly”.
1
(1968
Federal Reserve Bulletin
681, 12 CFR 250.141). The Board of Governors has been asked by a State member bank whether, under that interpretation, the bank may establish such a so-called
operations subsidiary
outside the United States.
1
National banking associations are prohibited by section 5136 of the Revised Statutes from purchasing and holding shares of any corporation except those corporations whose shares are specifically made eligible by statute. This prohibition is made applicable to State member banks by section 9 ¶ 20 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 335).
(b) In the above interpretation the Board viewed the creation of a wholly-owned subsidiary which engaged in activities that the bank itself could perform directly as an alternative organizational arrangement that would be permissible for member banks unless “its use would be inconsistent with other Federal law, either statutory or judicial”.
(c) In the Board's judgment, the use by member banks of operations subsidiaries outside the United States would be clearly inconsistent with the statutory scheme of the Federal Reserve Act governing the foreign investments and
operations of member banks. It is clear that Congress has given member banks the authority to conduct operations and make investments outside the United States only through gradually adopting a series of specific statutory amendments to the Federal Reserve Act, each of which has been carefully drawn to give the Board approval, supervisory, and regulatory authority over those operations and investments.
(d) As part of the original Federal Reserve Act, national banks were, with the Board's permission, given the power to establish foreign branches.
2
In 1916, Congress amended the Federal Reserve Act to permit national banks to invest in international or foreign banking corporations known as
Agreement
Corporations, because such corporations were required to enter into an agreement or understanding with the Board to restrict their operations. Subject to such limitations or restrictions as the Board may prescribe, such Agreement corporations may principally engage in international or foreign banking, or banking in a dependency or insular possession of the United States, either directly or through the agency, ownership or control of local institutions in foreign countries, or in such dependencies or insular possessions of the United States. In 1919 the enactment of section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (the “Edge Act”) permitted national banks to invest in federally chartered international or foreign banking corporations (so-called Edge Corporations) which may engage in international or foreign banking or other international or foreign financial operations, or in banking or other financial operations in a dependency or insular possession of the United States, either directly or through the ownership or control of local institutions in foreign countries, or in such dependencies or insular possessions. Edge Corporations may only purchase and hold stock in certain foreign subsidiaries with the consent of the Board. And in 1966, Congress amended section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act to allow national banks to invest directly in the shares of a foreign bank. In the Board's judgment, the above statutory scheme of the Federal Reserve Act evidences a clear Congressional intent that member banks may only purchase and hold stock in subsidiaries located outside the United States through the prescribed statutory provisions of sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. It is through these statutorily prescribed forms of organization that member banks must conduct their operations outside the United States.
2
Under section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, State member banks, subject, of course, to any necessary approval from their State banking authority, may establish foreign branches on the same terms and subject to the same limitations and restrictions as are applicable to the establishment of branches by national banks (12 U.S.C. 321). State member banks may also purchase and hold shares of stock in Edge or Agreement Corporations and foreign banks because national banks, as a result of specific statutory exceptions to the stock purchase prohibitions of section 5136, can purchase and hold stock in these Corporations or banks.
(e) To summarize, the Board has concluded that a member bank may only organize and operate
operations subsidiaries
at locations in the United States. Investments by member banks in foreign subsidiaries must be made either with the Board's permission under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act or, with the Board's consent, through an Edge Corporation subsidiary under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act or through an Agreement Corporation subsidiary under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act. In addition, it should be noted that bank holding companies may acquire the shares of certain foreign subsidiaries with the Board's approval under section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act. These statutory sections taken together already give member banks a great deal of organizational flexibility in conducting their operations abroad.
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 24, 335)
[40 FR 12252, Mar. 18, 1975]
§ 250.160
Federal funds transactions.
(a) It is the position of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that, for purposes of provisions of law administered by the Board, a transaction in Federal funds involves a loan on the part of the
selling
bank and
a borrowing on the part of the
purchasing
bank.
(b) [Reserved]
(12 U.S.C. 371c)
[33 FR 9866, July 10, 1968, as amended at 67 FR 76622, Dec. 12, 2002]
§ 250.163
Inapplicability of amount limitations to “ineligible acceptances.”
(a) Since 1923, the Board has been of the view that “the acceptance power of State member banks is not necessarily confined to the provisions of section 13 (of the Federal Reserve Act), inasmuch as the laws of many States confer broader acceptance powers upon their State banks, and certain State member banks may, therefore, legally make acceptances of kinds which are not eligible for rediscount, but which may be eligible for purchase by Federal reserve banks under section 14.” 1923 FR bulletin 316, 317.
(b) In 1963, the Comptroller of the Currency ruled that “[n]ational banks are not limited in the character of acceptances which they may make in financing credit transactions, and bankers' acceptances may be used for such purpose, since the making of acceptances is an essential part of banking authorized by 12 U.S.C. 24.”
Comptroller's manual
7.7420. Therefore, national banks are authorized by the Comptroller to make acceptances under 12 U.S.C. 24, although the acceptances are not the type described in section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act.
(c) A review of the legislative history surrounding the enactment of the acceptance provisions of section 13, reveals that Congress believed in 1913, that it was granting to national banks a power which they would not otherwise possess and had not previously possessed. See remarks of Congressmen Phelan, Helvering, Saunders, and Glass, 51
Cong. Rec.
4676, 4798, 4885, and 5064 (September 10, 12, 13, and 17 of 1913). Nevertheless, the courts have long recognized the evolutionary nature of banking and of the scope of the “incidental powers” clause of 12 U.S.C. 24. See
Merchants Bank
v.
State Bank,
77 U.S. 604 (1870) (upholding the power of a national bank to certify a check under the “incidental powers” clause of 12 U.S.C. 24).
(d) It now appears that, based on the Board's 1923 ruling, and the Comptroller's 1963 ruling, both State member banks and national banks may make acceptances which are not of the type described in section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. Yet, this appears to be a development that Congress did not contemplate when it drafted the acceptance provisions of section 13.
(e) The question is presented whether the amount limitations of section 13 should apply to acceptances made by a member bank that are not of the type described in section 13. (The amount limitations are of two kinds:
(1) A limitation on the amount that may be accepted for any one customer, and
(2) A limitation on the aggregate amount of acceptances that a member bank may make.)
In interpreting any Federal statutory provision, the primary guide is the intent of Congress, yet, as noted earlier, Congress did not contemplate in 1913, the development of so-called “ineligible acceptances.” (Although there is some indication that Congress did contemplate State member banks' making acceptances of a type not described in section 13 [remarks of Congressman Glass, 51
Cong. Rec.
5064], the primary focus of congressional attention was on the acceptance powers of national banks.) In the absence of an indication of congressional intent, we are left to reach an interpretation that is in harmony with the language of the statutory provisions and with the purposes of the Federal Reserve Act.
(f) Section 13 authorizes acceptances of two types. The seventh paragraph of section 13 (12 U.S.C. 372) authorizes certain acceptances that arise out of specific transactions in goods. (These acceptances are sometimes referred to as “commercial acceptances.”) The 12th paragraph of section 13 authorizes member banks to make acceptances “for the purpose of furnishing dollar exchange as required by the usages of trade” in foreign transactions. (Such acceptances are referred to as “dollar exchange acceptances.”) In the 12th paragraph, there is a 10 percent limit on the amount of dollar exchange acceptances that may be accepted for any
one customer (unless adequately secured) and a limitation on the aggregate amount of dollar exchange acceptances that a member bank may make. (The 12th paragraph, in imposing these limitations, refers to the acceptance of “such drafts or bills of exchange referred to (in) this paragraph.”) Similarly, the seventh paragraph imposes on commercial acceptances a parallel 10 percent per-customer limitation, and limitations on the aggregate amount of commercial acceptances. (In the case of the aggregate limitations, the seventh paragraph states that “no bank shall accept such bills to an amount” in excess of the aggregate limit; the reference to “such bills” makes clear that the limitation is only in respect of drafts or bills of exchange of the specific type described in the seventh paragraph.)
(g) Based on the language and parallel structure of the 7th and 12th paragraphs of section 13, and in the absence of a statement of congressional intent in the legislative history, the Board concludes that the per-customer and aggregate limitations of the 12th paragraph apply only to acceptances of the type described in that paragraph (dollar exchange acceptances), and the per-customer and aggregate limitations of the 7th paragraph (12 U.S.C. 372) apply only to acceptances of the type described in that paragraph.
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 372 and the 12th paragraph of sec. 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, which paragraph is omitted from the United States Code)
[38 FR 13728, May 25, 1973]
§ 250.164
Bankers' acceptances.
(a) Section 207 of the Bank Export Services Act (title II of Pub. L. 97-290) (“BESA”) raised the limits on the aggregate amount of eligible bankers' acceptances (“BAs”) that may be created by an individual member bank from 50 per cent (or 100 per cent with the permission of the Board) of its paid up and unimpaired capital stock and surplus (“capital”) to 150 per cent (or 200 per cent with the permission of the Board) of its capital. Section 207 also prohibits a member bank from creating eligible BAs for any one person in the aggregate in excess of 10 per cent of the institution's capital. This section of the BESA applies the same limits applicable to member banks to U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks that are subject to reserve requirements under section 7 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3105). The Board is clarifying the proper meaning of the seventh paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended by the BESA.
(b)(1) This section of the BESA provides that any portion of an eligible BA created by an institution subject to the BA limitations contained therein (“covered bank”) that is conveyed through a participation to another covered bank shall not be included in the calculation of the creating bank's BA limits. The amount of the participation is to be applied to the calculation of the BA limits applicable to the covered bank receiving the participation. Although a covered bank that has reached its 150 or 200 percent limit can continue to create eligible acceptances by conveying participations to other covered banks, Congress has in effect imposed an aggregate limit on the eligible acceptances that may be created by
all
covered banks equal to the sum of 150 or 200 percent of the capital of all covered banks.
(2) The Board has clarified that under the statute an eligible BA created by a covered bank that is conveyed through a participation to an institution that is
not
subject to the limitations of this section of the BESA continues to be included in the calculation of the limits applicable to the creating covered bank. This will ensure that the total amount of eligible BAs that may be created by covered banks does not exceed the limitations established by Congress. In addition, this ensures that participations in acceptances are not used as a device for the avoidance of reserve requirements. Finally, this promotes the Congressional intent, with respect to covered banks, that foreign and domestic banks be on an equal footing and under the same legal requirements.
(3) In addition, the amount of a participation received by a covered bank from an institution not covered by the limitations of the Act is to be included in the calculation of the limits applicable to the covered bank receiving the
participation. This result is based upon the language of the statute which includes within a covered bank's limits on eligible BAs outstanding the amount of participations received by the covered bank. This provision reflects Congressional intent that a covered bank not be obligated on eligible bankers' acceptances, and participations therein, for an amount in excess of 150 or 200 percent of the institution's capital.
(c) The statute also provides that eligible acceptances growing out of domestic transactions are not to exceed 50 percent of the aggregate of all eligible acceptances authorized for covered banks. The Board has clarified that this 50 percent limitation is applicable to the maximum permissible amount of eligible BAs (150 or 200 percent of capital), regardless of the bank's amount of eligible acceptances outstanding. The statutory language prior to the BESA amendment made clear that covered banks could issue eligible acceptances growing out of domestic transactions up to 50 percent of the amount of the total permissible eligible acceptances the bank could issue. The legislative history of the BESA indicates no intent to change this domestic acceptance limitation.
(d) The statute also provides that for the purpose of the limitations applicable to U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks, a branch's or agency's capital is to be calculated as the dollar equivalent of the capital stock and surplus of the parent foreign bank as determined by the Board. The Board has clarified that for purposes of calculating the BA limits applicable to U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks, the identity of the parent foreign bank is generally the same as for reserve requirement purposes; that is, the bank entity that owns the branch or agency most directly. The Board has also clarified that the procedures currently used for purposes of reporting to the Board on the Annual Report of Foreign Banking Organizations, Form FR Y-7, are also to be used in the calculation of the acceptance limits applicable to U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks. (The FR Y-7 generally requires financial statements prepared in accordance with local accounting practices and an explanation of the accounting terminology and the major features of the accounting standards used in the preparation of the financial statements.) Conversions to the dollar equivalent of the worldwide capital of the foreign bank should be made periodically, but in no event less frequently than quarterly. In this regard, the Board recognizes the need to be flexible in dealing with the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the calculation of the worldwide capital of the parent foreign bank. Each foreign bank is to be responsible for coordinating the BA activity of its U.S. branches and agencies (including the aggregation of such activity) and establishing procedures that ensure that examiners will be able readily to determine compliance with the BESA limits.
(Sec. 13, Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 372))
[48 FR 28975, June 24, 1983]
§ 250.165
Bankers' acceptances: definition of participations.
(a)(1) Section 207 of the Bank Export Services Act (Title II of Pub. L. 97-290) (“BESA”) raised the limits on the aggregate amount of eligible bankers' acceptances (“BAs”) that may be created by a member bank from 50 percent (or 100 percent with the permission of the Board) of its paid up and unimpaired capital stock and surplus (“capital”) to 150 percent (or 200 percent with the permission of the Board) of its capital. Section 207 also prohibits a member bank from creating eligible BAs for any one person in the aggregate in excess of 10 percent of the institution's capital. Eligible BAs growing out of domestic transactions are not to exceed 50 percent of the aggregate of all eligible acceptances authorized for a member bank. This section of the BESA applies the same limits applicable to member banks to U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks that are subject to reserve requirements under section 7 of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3105).
1
1
The institutions subject to the BA limitations of BESA will hereinafter be referred to as “covered banks.”
(2) This section of the BESA also provides that any portion of an eligible BA
created by a covered bank (“senior bank”) that is conveyed through a “participation agreement” to another covered bank (“junior bank”) shall
not
be included in the calculation of the senior bank's bankers' acceptance limits established by section 207 of BESA.
2
However, the amount of the participation
is
to be included in the BA limits applicable to the junior bank. The language of the statute does not define what constitutes a participation agreement for purposes of the applicability of the BESA limitations. However, the statute does authorize the Board to further define any of the terms used in section 207 of the BESA (12 U.S.C. 372(g)). The Board is clarifying the term participation for purposes of the BA limitations of the BESA.
2
The use of the terms
senior bank
and
junior bank
has no implications regarding priority of claims. These terms merely represent a shorthand method of identifying the depository institution that has created the acceptance and conveyed the participation (senior bank) and the depository institution that has received the participation (junior bank).
(b) The legislative history of section 207 of the BESA indicates that Congress intended that the junior bank be obligated to the senior bank in the event that the account party defaults on its obligation to pay, but that the junior bank need not also be obligated to pay the holder of the acceptance at the time the BA is presented for payment. H. Rep. No. 97-629, 97th Cong., 2nd Sess. 15 (1982); 128
Cong. Rec.
H 4647 (daily ed. July 27, 1982) (remarks by Rep. Barnard): and 128
Cong. Rec.
H 8462 (daily ed. October 1, 1982) (remarks by Rep. Barnard). The legislative history also indicates that Congress intended that eligible BAs in which participations had been conveyed not be required to indicate the name(s) (or interest(s)) of the junior bank(s) on the acceptance in order for the BA to be excluded from the BESA limitations applicable to the senior bank. 128
Cong.
Rec. S 12237 (daily ed. September 24, 1982) (remarks of Senators Heinz and Garn): and 128
Cong. Rec.
H 4647 (daily ed. July 27, 1982) (remarks of Rep. Barnard).
(c)(1) In view of Congressional intent with regard to what constitutes a participation in an eligible BA, the Board has determined that, for purposes of the BESA limits, a participation must satisfy the following two
minimum
requirements:
(i) A written agreement entered into between the junior and senior bank under which the junior bank acquires the senior bank's claim against the account party to the extent of the amount of the participation that is enforceable in the event that the account party fails to perform in accordance with the terms of the acceptance; and
(ii) The agreement between the junior and senior bank provides that the senior bank obtains a claim against the junior bank to the extent of the amount of the participation that is enforceable in the event the account party fails to perform in accordance with the terms of the acceptance.
(2) Consistent with Congressional intent, the minimum requirements do not require the junior bank to be obligated to pay the holder of the acceptance at the time the BA is presented for payment. Similarly, the minimum requirements do not require the name(s) or interest(s) of the junior bank(s) to appear on the face of the acceptance.
(3) An eligible BA that is conveyed through a participation that does not satisfy these minimum requirements would continue to be included in the BA limits applicable to the senior bank. Further, an eligible BA conveyed to a covered bank through a participation that provided for additional rights and obligations among the parties would be excluded from the BESA limitations of the senior bank provided the minimum requirements were satisfied.
(4) A participation structured pursuant to these minimum requirements would be as follows: Upon the conveyance of the participation, the senior bank retains its entire obligation to pay the holder of the BA at maturity. The senior bank has a claim against the junior bank to the extent of the amount of the participation that is enforceable in the event the account party fails to perform in accordance with the terms of the acceptance. Similarly, the junior bank has a corresponding claim against the account party to the extent of the amount of
the participation that is enforceable in the event the account party fails to perform in accordance with the terms of the acceptance.
(d)(1) The Board is not requiring the senior bank and the account party specifically to agree that the senior bank's rights are assignable because the Board believes such rights to be assignable even in the absence of an explicit agreement.
(2) The junior and senior banks may contract among themselves as to which party(ies) have the responsibility for administering the arrangement, enforcing claims, or exercising remedies.
(e) The Board recognizes that both the junior bank's claim on the account party and the senior bank's claim on the junior bank involve risk. Therefore, it is essential that these risks be assessed by the banks involved in accordance with prudent and sound banking practices. The examiners will in the normal course of the examination process review the risk assessment procedures instituted by the banks. The junior bank should review the creditworthiness of each account party when the junior bank acquires a participation and the senior bank should review on an ongoing basis the creditworthiness of the junior bank. Junior bank agreement to rely exclusively upon the credit judgment of the senior bank and purchase on an ongoing basis from the senior bank all participations in BAs regardless of the identity of the account party is not appropriate in view of the risks involved. However, in those cases involving a participation between a parent bank and its Edge affiliate where the credit review for both entities is performed by the parent bank, the Edge Corporation should maintain documentation indicating that it concurs with the parent bank's analysis and that the acceptance participation is appropriate for inclusion in the Edge Corporation's portfolio.
(f) Similarly, the Board has determined that it is appropriate to include the risks incurred by the senior bank in assessing the senior bank's capital and the risks incurred by the junior bank in assessing the junior bank's capital.
(g) In view of this clarification of the issues relating to participations in BAs, the Board encourages the private sector to develop standardized forms for BAs and participations therein that clearly delineate the rights and responsibilities of the relevant parties.
(Sec. 13, Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 372))
[48 FR 57109, Dec. 28, 1983]
§ 250.166
Treatment of mandatory convertible debt and subordinated notes of state member banks and bank holding companies as “capital”.
(a)
General.
Under the Board's risk-based capital guidelines, state member banks and bank holding companies may include in Tier 2 capital subordinated debt and mandatory convertible debt that meets certain criteria. The purpose of this interpretation is to clarify these criteria. This interpretation should be read with those guidelines, particularly with paragraphs II.c. through II.e. of appendix A of 12 CFR part 208 if the issuer is a state member bank and with paragraphs II.A.2.c. and II.A.2.d. of appendix A of 12 CFR part 225 if the issuer is a bank holding company.
(b)
Criteria for subordinated debt included in capital
—(1)
Characteristics.
To be included in Tier 2 capital under the Board's risk-based capital guidelines for state member banks and bank holding companies, subordinated debt must be subordinated in right of payment to the claims of the issuer's general creditors
1
and, for banks, to the claims of depositors as well; must be unsecured; must state clearly on its face that it is not a deposit and is not insured by a federal agency; must have a minimum average maturity of five years;
2
must not contain provisions that permit debtholders to accelerate payment of principal prior to maturity except in the event of bankruptcy of or the appointment of a receiver for the issuing organization; must not contain or be
covered by any covenants, terms, or restrictions that are inconsistent with safe and sound banking practice; and must not be credit sensitive.
1
The risk-based capital guidelines for bank holding companies state that bank holding company debt must be subordinated to all senior indebtedness of the company. To meet this requirement, the debt should be subordinated to all general creditors.
2
The “average maturity” of an obligation or issue repayable in scheduled periodic payments shall be the weighted average of the maturities of all such scheduled payments.
(2)
Acceleration clauses.
(i) In order to be included in Tier 2 capital, the appendices provide that subordinated debt instruments must have an original weighted average maturity of at least five years. For this purpose, maturity is defined as the earliest possible date on which the holder can put the instrument back to the issuing banking organization. Since acceleration clauses permit the holder to put the debt back upon the occurrence of certain events, which could happen at any time after the instrument is issued, subordinated debt that includes provisions permitting acceleration upon events other than bankruptcy or reorganization under Chapters 7 (Liquidation) and 11 (Reorganization) of the Bankruptcy Code, in the case of a bank holding company, or insolvency—i.e., the appointment of a receiver—in the case of a state member bank, does not qualify for inclusion in Tier 2 capital.
(ii) Further, subordinated debt whose terms provide for acceleration upon the occurrence of events other than bankruptcy or the appointment of a receiver does not qualify as Tier 2 capital. For example, the terms of some subordinated debt issues would permit debtholders to accelerate repayment if the issuer failed to pay principal or interest on the subordinated debt issue when due (or within a certain timeframe after the due date), failed to make mandatory sinking fund deposits, defaulted on any other debt, failed to honor covenants, or if an institution affiliated with the issuer entered into bankruptcy or receivership. Some banking organizations have also issued, or proposed to issue, subordinated debt that would allow debtholders to accelerate repayment if, for example, the banking organization failed to maintain certain prescribed minimum capital ratios or rates of return, or if the amount of nonperforming assets or charge-offs of the banking organization exceeded a certain level.
(iii) These and other similar acceleration clauses raise significant supervisory concerns because repayment of the debt could be accelerated at a time when an organization may be experiencing financial difficulties. Acceleration of the debt could restrict the ability of the organization to resolve its problems in the normal course of business and could cause the organization involuntarily to enter into bankruptcy or receivership. Furthermore, since such acceleration clauses could allow the holders of subordinated debt to be paid ahead of general creditors or depositors, their inclusion in a debt issue throws into question whether the debt is, in fact, subordinated.
(iv) Subordinated debt issues whose terms state that the debtholders may accelerate the repayment of principal only in the event of bankruptcy or receivership of the issuer do not permit the holders of the debt to be paid before general creditors or depositors and do not raise supervisory concerns because the acceleration does not occur until the institution has failed. Accordingly, debt issues that permit acceleration of principal only in the event of bankruptcy (liquidation or reorganization) in the case of bank holding companies and receivership in the case of banks may generally be classified as capital.
(3)
Provisions inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices.
(i) The risk-based capital guidelines state that instruments included in capital may not contain or be covered by any covenants, terms, or restrictions that are inconsistent with safe and sound banking practice. As a general matter, capital instruments should not contain terms that could adversely affect liquidity or unduly restrict management's flexibility to run the organization, particularly in times of financial difficulty, or that could limit the regulator's ability to resolve problem bank situations. For example, some subordinated debt includes covenants that would not allow the banking organization to make additional secured or senior borrowings. Other covenants would prohibit a banking organization from disposing of a major subsidiary or undergoing a change in control. Such covenants could restrict the banking organization's ability to raise funds to meet its liquidity needs. In addition,
such terms or conditions limit the ability of bank supervisors to resolve problem bank situations through a change in control.
(ii) Certain other provisions found in subordinated debt may provide protection to investors in subordinated debt without adversely affecting the overall benefits of the instrument to the organization. For example, some instruments include covenants that may require the banking organization to:
(A) Maintain an office or agency where securities may be presented,
(B) Hold payments on the securities in trust,
(C) Preserve the rights and franchises of the company,
(D) Pay taxes and assessments before they become delinquent,
(E) Provide an annual statement of compliance on whether the company has observed all conditions of the debt agreement, or
(F) Maintain its properties in good condition. Such covenants, as long as they do not unduly restrict the activity of the banking organization, generally would be acceptable in qualifying subordinated debt, provided that failure to meet them does not give the holders of the debt the right to accelerate the debt.
3
3
This notice does not attempt to list or address all clauses included in subordinated debt; rather, it is intended to give general supervisory guidance regarding the types of clauses that could raise supervisory concerns. Issuers of subordinated debt may need to consult further with Federal Reserve staff about other subordinated debt provisions not specifically discussed above to determine whether such provisions are appropriate in a debt capital instrument.
(4)
Credit sensitive features.
Credit sensitive subordinated debt (including mandatory convertible securities) where payments are tied to the financial condition of the borrower generally do not qualify for inclusion in capital. Interest rate payments may be linked to the financial condition of an institution through various ways, such as through an auction rate mechanism, a preset schedule that either mandates interest rate increases as the credit rating of the institution declines or automatically increases them over the passage of time,
4
or that raises the interest rate if payment is not made in a timely fashion.
5
As the financial condition of an organization declines, it is faced with higher and higher payments on its credit sensitive subordinated debt at a time when it most needs to conserve its resources. Thus, credit sensitive debt does not provide the support expected of a capital instrument to an institution whose financial condition is deteriorating; rather, the credit sensitive feature can accelerate depletion of the institution's resources and increase the likelihood of default on the debt.
4
Although payments on debt whose interest rate increases over time on the surface may not appear to be directly linked to the financial condition of the issuing organization, such debt (sometimes referred to as expanding or exploding rate debt) has a strong potential to be credit sensitive in substance. Organizations whose financial condition has strengthened are more likely to be able to refinance the debt at a rate lower than that mandated by the preset increase, whereas institutions whose condition has deteriorated are less likely to be able to do so. Moreover, just when these latter institutions would be in the most need of conserving capital, they would be under strong pressure to redeem the debt as an alternative to paying higher rates and, thus, would accelerate depletion of their resources.
5
While such terms may be acceptable in perpetual preferred stock qualifying as Tier 2 capital, it would be inconsistent with safe and sound banking practice to include debt with such terms in Tier 2 capital. The organization does not have the option, as it does with auction rate preferred stock issues, of eliminating the higher payments on the subordinated debt without going into default.
(c)
Criteria for mandatory convertible debt included in capital.
Mandatory convertible debt included in capital must meet all the criteria cited above for subordinated debt with the exception of the minimum maturity requirement.
6
Since mandatory convertible debt eventually converts to an equity instrument, it has no minimum maturity requirement. Such debt, however, is subject to a maximum maturity requirement of 12 years.
6
Mandatory convertible debt is subordinated debt that contains provisions committing the issuing organization to repay the principal from the proceeds of future equity issues.
(d)
Previously issued subordinated debt.
Subordinated debt including mandatory convertible debt that has been issued prior to the date of this interpretation and that contains provisions permitting acceleration for reasons other than bankruptcy or receivership of the issuing institution; includes other questionable terms or conditions; or that is credit sensitive will not automatically be excluded from capital. Rather, such debt will be considered on a case-by-case basis to determine whether it qualifies as Tier 2 capital. As a general matter, subordinated debt issued prior to the release of this interpretation and containing such provisions or features may qualify as Tier 2 capital so long as these terms:
(1) have been commonly used by banking organizations,
(2) do not provide an unreasonably high degree of protection to the holder in cases not involving bankruptcy or receivership, and
(3) do not effectively allow the holder to stand ahead of the general creditors of the issuing institution in cases of bankruptcy or receivership.
Subordinated debt containing provisions that permit the holders of the debt to accelerate payment of principal when the banking organization begins to experience difficulties, for example, when it fails to meet certain financial ratios, such as capital ratios or rates of return, does not meet these three criteria. Consequently, subordinated debt issued prior to the release of this interpretation containing such provisions may not be included within Tier 2 capital.
(e)
Limitations on the amount of subordinated debt in capital
—(1)
Basic limitation.
The amount of subordinated debt an institution may include in Tier 2 capital is limited to 50 percent of the amount of the institution's Tier 1 capital. The amount of a subordinated debt issue that may be included in Tier 2 capital is discounted as it approaches maturity; one-fifth of the original amount of the instrument, less any redemptions, is excluded each year from Tier 2 capital during the last five years prior to maturity. If the instrument has a serial redemption feature such that, for example, half matures in seven years and half matures in ten years, the issuing organization should begin discounting the seven-year portion after two years and the ten-year portion after five years.
(2)
Treatment of debt with dedicated proceeds.
If a banking organization has issued common or preferred stock and dedicated the proceeds to the redemption of a mandatory convertible debt security, that portion of the security covered by the amount of the proceeds so dedicated is considered to be ordinary subordinated debt for capital purposes, provided the proceeds are not placed in a sinking fund, trust fund, or similar segregated account or are not used in the interim for some other purpose. Thus, dedicated portions of mandatory convertible debt securities are subject, like other subordinated debt, to the 50 percent sublimit within Tier 2 capital, as well as to discounting in the last five years of life. Undedicated portions of mandatory convertible debt may be included in Tier 2 capital without any sublimit and are not subject to discounting.
(3)
Treatment of debt with segregated funds.
In some cases, the provisions in mandatory convertible debt issues may require the issuing banking organization to set up a sinking fund, trust fund, or similar segregated account to hold the proceeds from the sale of equity securities dedicated to pay off the principal of the mandatory convertible debt at maturity. The portion of mandatory convertibles covered by the amount of proceeds deposited in such a segregated fund is considered secured and, thus, may not be included in capital at all, let alone be treated as subordinated debt that is subject to the 50 percent sublimit within Tier 2 capital. The maintenance of such separate segregated funds for the redemption of mandatory convertible debt exceeds the requirements of appendix B to Regulation Y. Accordingly, if a banking organization, with the agreement of its debtholders, seeks Federal Reserve approval to eliminate such a fund, approval normally would be given unless supervisory concerns warrant otherwise.
(f)
Redemption of subordinated debt prior to maturity
—(1)
By state member
banks.
State member banks must obtain approval from the appropriate Reserve Bank prior to redeeming before maturity subordinated debt or mandatory convertible debt included in capital.
7
A Reserve Bank will not approve such early redemption unless it is satisfied that the capital position of the bank will be adequate after the proposed redemption.
7
Some agreements governing mandatory convertible debt issued prior to the risk-based capital guidelines provide that the bank may redeem the notes if they no longer count as primary capital as defined in appendix B to Regulation Y. Such a provision does not obviate the requirement to receive Federal Reserve approval prior to redemption.
(2)
By bank holding companies.
While bank holding companies are not formally required to obtain approval prior to redeeming subordinated debt, the risk-based capital guidelines state that bank holding companies should consult with the Federal Reserve before redeeming any capital instruments prior to stated maturity. This also applies to any redemption of mandatory convertible debt with proceeds of an equity issuance that were dedicated to the redemption of that debt. Accordingly, a bank holding company should consult with its Reserve Bank prior to redeeming subordinated debt or dedicated portions of mandatory convertible debt included in capital. A Reserve Bank generally will not acquiesce to such a redemption unless it is satisfied that the capital position of the bank holding company would be adequate after the proposed redemption.
(3)
Special concerns involving mandatory convertible debt.
Consistent with appendix B to Regulation Y, bank holding companies wishing to redeem before maturity undedicated portions of mandatory convertible debt included in capital are required to receive prior Federal Reserve approval, unless the redemption is effected with the proceeds from the sale or common or perpetual preferred stock. An organization planning to effect such a redemption with the proceeds from the sale of common or perpetual preferred stock is advised to consult informally with its Reserve Bank in order to avoid the possibility of taking an action that could result in weakening its capital position. A Reserve Bank will not approve the redemption of mandatory convertible securities, or acquiesce in such a redemption effected with the sale of common or perpetual preferred stock, unless it is satisfied that the capital position of the bank holding company will be satisfactory after the redemption.
8
8
The guidance contained in this paragraph applies to mandatory convertible debt issued prior to the risk-based capital guidelines that state that the banking organization may redeem the notes if they no longer count as primary capital as defined in appendix B to Regulation Y. Such provisions do not obviate the need to consult with, or obtain approval from, the Federal Reserve prior to redemption of the debt.
[57 FR 40598, Sept. 4, 1992]
§ 250.180
Reports of changes in control of management.
(a) Under a statute enacted September 12, 1964 (Pub. L. 88-593; 78 Stat. 940) all insured banks are required to report promptly (1) changes in the outstanding voting stock of the bank which will result in control or in a change in control of the bank and (2) any instances where the bank makes a loan or loans, secured, or to be secured, by 25 percent or more of the outstanding voting stock of an insured bank.
(b) Reports concerning changes in control of a State member bank are to be made by the president or other chief executive officer of the bank, and shall be submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of its district.
(c) Reports concerning loans by an insured bank on the stock of a State member bank are to be made by the president or other chief executive officer of the lending bank, and shall be submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of the State member bank on the stock of which the loan was made.
(d) Paragraphs 3 and 4 of this legislation specify the information required in the reports which, in cases involving State member banks, should be addressed to the Vice President in Charge of Examinations of the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank.
(12 U.S.C. 1817)
§ 250.181
Reports of change in control of bank management incident to a merger.
(a) A State member bank has inquired whether Pub. L. 88-593 (78 Stat. 940) requires reports of change in control of bank management in situations where the change occurs as an incident in a merger.
(b) Under the Bank Merger Act of 1960 (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), no bank with Federal deposit insurance may merge or consolidate with, or acquire the assets of, or assume the liability to pay deposits in, any other insured bank without prior approval of the appropriate Federal bank supervisory agency. Where the bank resulting from any such transaction is a State member bank, the Board of Governors is the agency that must pass on the transaction. In the course of consideration of such an application, the Board would, of necessity, acquire knowledge of any change in control of management that might result. Information concerning any such change in control of management is supplied with each merger application and, in the circumstances, it is the view of the Board that the receipt of such information in connection with a merger application constitutes compliance with Pub. L. 88-593. However, once a merger has been approved and completely effectuated, the resulting bank would thereafter be subject to the reporting requirements of Pub. L. 88-593.
(12 U.S.C. 1817)
§ 250.182
Terms defining competitive effects of proposed mergers.
Under the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), a Federal Banking agency receiving a merger application must request the views of the other two banking agencies and the Department of Justice on the competitive factors involved. Standard descriptive terms are used by the Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Comptroller of the Currency. The terms and their definitions are as follows:
(a) The term
monopoly
means that the proposed transaction must be disapproved in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(5)(A).
(b) The term
substantially adverse
means that the proposed transaction would have anticompetitive effects which preclude approval unless the anticompetitive effects are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served as specified in 12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(5)(B).
(c) The term
adverse
means that proposed transaction would have anticompetitive effects which would be material to the decision but which would not preclude approval.
(d) The term
no significant effect
means that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction, if any, would not be material to the decision.
(12 U.S.C. 1828(c))
[45 FR 45257, July 3, 1980]
§ 250.200
Investment in bank premises by holding company banks.
(a) The Board of Governors has been asked whether, in determining under section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371d) how much may be invested in bank premises without prior Board approval, a State member bank, which is owned by a registered bank holding company, is required to include indebtedness of a corporation, wholly owned by the holding company, that is engaged in holding premises of banks in the holding company system.
(b) Section 24A provides, in part, as follows:
Hereafter * * * no State member bank, without the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, shall (1) invest in bank premises, or in the stock, bonds, debentures, or other such obligations of any corporation holding the premises of such bank or (2) make loans to or upon the security of the stock of any such corporation, if the aggregate of all such investments and loans, together with the amount of any indebtedness incurred by any such corporation which is an affiliate of the bank, as defined in section 2 of the Banking Act of 1933, as amended [12 U.S.C. 221a], will exceed the amount of the capital stock of such banks.
(c) A corporation that is owned by a holding company is an “affiliate of each of the holding company's majority-owned banks as that term is defined in said section 2. Therefore, under the explicit provisions of section 24A,
each State member bank, any part of whose premises is owned by such an affiliate, must include the affiliate's total indebtedness in determining whether a proposed premises investment by the bank would cause the aggregate figure to exceed the amount of the bank's capital stock, so that the Board's prior approval would be required. Where the affiliate holds the premises of a number of the holding company's banks, the amount of the affiliate's indebtedness may be so large that Board approval is required for every proposed investment in bank premises by each majority-owned State member bank, to which the entire indebtedness of the affiliate is required to be attributed. The Board believes that, in these circumstances, individual approvals are not essential to effectuate the purpose of section 24A, which is to safeguard the soundness and liquidity of member banks, and that the protection sought by Congress can be achieved by a suitably circumscribed general approval.
(d) Accordingly the Board hereby grants general approval for any investment or loan (as described in section 24A) by any State member bank, the majority of the stock of which is owned by a registered bank holding company, if the proposed investment or loan will not cause either (1) all such investments and loans by the member bank (together with the indebtedness of any bank premises subsidiary thereof) to exceed 100 percent of the bank's capital stock, or (2) the aggregate of such investments and loans by all of the holding company's subsidiary banks (together with the indebtedness of any bank premises affiliates thereof) to exceed 100 percent of the aggregate capital stock of said banks.
(12 U.S.C. 221a, 371d)
§ 250.220
Whether member bank acting as trustee is prohibited by section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 from acquiring majority of shares of mutual fund.
(a) The Board recently considered whether section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 377) would prohibit a member bank, while acting as trustee of a tax exempt employee benefit trust or trusts, from, under the following circumstances, acquiring a majority of the shares of an open-end investment company (“Fund”) registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or more than 50 percent of the number of Fund's shares voted at the preceding election of directors of the Fund.
(b) The bank has acted as trustee, since December 1963, pursuant to a trust agreement with a county medical society to administer its group retirement program, under which individual members of the society could participate in accordance with the provisions of the Self-Employed Individuals Tax Retirement Act of 1962 (commonly referred to as “H.R. 10”).
(c) Under the trust agreement as presently constituted, each employer, who is a participating member of the medical society, directs the bank to invest his contributions to the retirement plan in such proportions as he may elect in insurance or annuity contracts or in a diversified portfolio of securities and other property. The diversified portfolio held by the bank is invested and administered by the bank solely at the direction of a committee of the medical society.
(d) It has now been proposed that the trust agreement be amended to provide that all investments constituting the trust fund, apart from insurance and annuity contracts, will be made exclusively in shares of a single open-end investment company to be named in the trust agreement and that the assets constituting the diversified portfolio now held by the bank, as trustee, will be exchanged for the Fund's shares. The bank will, in addition to holding the shares of the Fund, allocate income and dividends to the accounts of the various participants in the retirement program, invest and reinvest income and dividends, and perform other ministerial functions.
(e) In addition, it is proposed to amend the trust agreement so that voting of the shares held by the bank as trustee will be controlled exclusively by the participants. Under the proposed amendment, the bank will sign all proxies prior to mailing them to the participants,
it being intended that the Participant(s) shall vote the proxies notwithstanding the
fact that the Trustee is the owner of the shares * * *.
(f) The bank believes that amendments are now under consideration that will also require investment of the assets of these plans exclusively in the Fund's shares. Accordingly, the bank may eventually own the Fund's shares in several separate trust accounts and in an aggregate amount equal to a majority of the Fund's shares.
(g) Section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 provides in relevant part that
no member bank shall be affiliated in any manner described in section 2(b) hereof with any corporation * * * engaged principally in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution at wholesale or retail or through syndicate participation of stocks * * * or other securities: * * *.
(h) Section 2(b) defines the term
affiliate
to include
any corporation, business trust, association or other similar organization (1) Of which a member bank, directly or indirectly, owns or controls either a majority of the voting shares or more than 50 per centum of the number of shares voted for the election of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions at the preceding election, or controls in any manner the election of a majority of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions; * * *.
(i) The Board has previously taken the position, in an interpretation involving the term
affiliate
under the Banking Act of 1933, that it would not require a member bank to obtain and publish a report of a corporation the majority of the stock of which is held by the member bank as executor or trustee, provided that the member bank holds such stock subject to control by a court or by a beneficiary or other principal and that the member bank may not lawfully exercise control of such stock independently of any order or direction of a court, beneficiary or other principal. 1933 Federal Reserve Bulletin 651. The rationale of that interpretation—which was reaffirmed by the Board in 1957—would appear to be equally applicable to the facts in the present case. In the circumstances, and on the basis of the Board's understanding that the bank will not vote any of Fund's shares or control in any manner the election of any of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions, the Board has concluded that the situation in question would not fall within the purpose or coverage of section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 and, therefore, would not involve a violation of the statute.
§ 250.221
Issuance and sale of short-term debt obligations by bank holding companies.
(a) The opinion of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has been requested recently with respect to the proposed sale of “thrift notes” by a bank holding company for the purpose of supplying capital to its wholly-owned nonbanking subsidiaries.
(b) The thrift notes would bear the name of the holding company, which in the case presented, was substantially similar to the name of its affiliated banks. It was proposed that they be issued in denominations of $50 to $100 and initially be of 12-month or less maturities. There would be no maximum amount of the issue. Interest rates would be variable according to money market conditions but would presumably be at rates somewhat above those permitted by Regulation Q ceilings. There would be no guarantee or indemnity of the notes by any of the banks in the holding company system and, if required to do so, the holding company would place on the face of the notes a negative representation that the purchase price was not a deposit, nor an indirect obligation of banks in the holding company system, nor covered by deposit insurance.
(c) The notes would be generally available for sale to members of the public, but only at offices of the holding company and its nonbanking subsidiaries. Although offices of the holding company may be in the same building or quarters as its banking offices, they would be physically separated from the banking offices. Sales would be made only by officers or employees of the holding company and its nonbanking subsidiaries. Initially, the notes would only be offered in the State in which the holding company was principally doing business, thereby
complying with the exemption provided by section 3(a)(11) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77c) for “intra-state” offerings. If it was decided to offer the notes on an interstate basis, steps would be taken to register the notes under the Securities Act of 1933. Funds from the sale of the notes would be used only to supply the financial needs of the nonbanking subsidiaries of the holding company. These nonbank subsidiaries are, at present, a small loan company, a mortgage banking company and a factoring company. In no instance would the proceeds from the sale of the notes be used in the bank subsidiaries of the holding company nor to maintain the availability of funds in its bank subsidiaries.
(d) The sale of the thrift notes, in the specific manner proposed, is an activity described in section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 377), that is, “the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale or distribution * * * of * * * notes, or other securities”. Briefly stated, this statute prohibits a member bank to be affiliated with a company “engaged principally” in such activity. Since the continued issuance and sale of such securities would be necessary to permit maintenance of the holding company's activities without substantial contraction and would be an integral part of its operations, the Board concluded that the issuance and sale of such notes would constitute a principal activity of a holding company within the spirit and purpose of the statute. (For prior Board decisions in this connection, see 1934 Federal Reserve Bulletin 485, 12 CFR 218.104, 12 CFR 218.105 and 12 CFR 218.101.)
(e) In reaching this conclusion, the Board distinguished the proposed activity from the sale of short-term notes commonly known as
commercial paper,
which is a recognized form of financing for bank holding companies. For purposes of this interpretation,
commercial paper
may be defined as notes, with maturities not exceeding nine months, the proceeds of which are to be used for current transactions, which are usually sold to sophisticated institutional investors, rather than to members of the general public, in minimum denominations of $10,000 (although sometimes they may be sold in minimum denominations of $5,000). Commercial paper is exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933 by reason of the exemption provided by section 3(a)(3) thereof (15 U.S.C. 77c). That exemption is inapplicable where the securities are sold to the general public (17 CFR 231.4412). The reasons for such exemption, taken together with the abuses that gave rise to the passage of the Banking Act of 1933 (“the Glass-Steagall Act”), have led the Board to conclude that the issuance of commercial paper by a bank holding company is not an activity intended to be included within the scope of section 20.
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 377 and 1843)
[Reg. Y, 38 FR 35231, Dec. 26, 1973]
§ 250.260
Miscellaneous interpretations; gold coin and bullion.
The Board has received numerous inquiries from member banks relating to the repeal of the ban on ownership of gold by United States citizens. Listed below are questions and answers which affect member banks and relate to the responsibilities of the Federal Reserve System.
(a) May gold in the form of coins or bullion be counted as vault cash in order to satisfy reserve requirements? No. Section 19(c) of the Federal Reserve Act requires that reserve balances be satisfied either by a balance maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank or by vault cash, consisting of United States currency and coin. Gold in bullion form is not United States currency. Since the bullion value of United States gold coins far exceeds their face value, member banks would not in practice distribute them over the counter at face value to satisfy customer demands.
(b) Will the Federal Reserve Banks perform services for member banks with respect to gold, such as safekeeping or assaying? No.
(c) Will a Federal Reserve Bank accept gold as collateral for an advance to a member bank under section 10(b) of the Federal Reserve Act? No.
[39 FR 45254, Dec. 31, 1974]

# Interpretations of Section 32 of the Glass-Steagall Act
§ 250.400
Service of open-end investment company.
An open-end investment company is defined in section 5(a)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 as a company “which is offering for sale or has outstanding any redeemable security of which it is the issuer.” Section 2(a)(31) of said act provides that a
redeemable security
means “any security, other than short-term paper, under the terms of which the holder, upon its presentation to the issuer or to a person designated by the issuer, is entitled (whether absolutely or only out of surplus) to receive approximately his proportionate share of the issuer's current net assets, or the cash equivalent thereof.”
It is customary for such companies to have but one class of securities, namely, capital stock, and it is apparent that the more or less continued process of redemption of the stock issued by such a company would restrict and contract its activities if it did not continue to issue its stock. Thus, the issuance and sale of its stock is essential to the maintenance of the company's size and to the continuance of operations without substantial contraction, and therefore the issue and sale of its stock constitutes one of the primary activities of such a company.
Accordingly, it is the opinion of the Board that if such a company is issuing or offering its redeemable stock for sale, it is “primarily engaged in the issue * * * public sale, or distribution, * * * of securities” and that section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933, as amended, prohibits an officer, director or employee of any such company from serving at the same time as an officer, director or employee of any member bank. It is the Board's view that this is true even though the shares are sold to the public through independent organizations with the result that the investment company does not derive any direct profit from the sales.
If, however, the company has ceased to issue or offer any of its stock for sale, the company would not be engaged in the issue or distribution of its stock, and, therefore, the prohibition contained in section 32 would be inapplicable unless the company were primarily engaged in the underwriting, public sale or distribution of securities other than its own stock.
[16 FR 4963, May 26, 1951. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.401
Director serving member bank and closed-end investment company being organized.
(a) The Board has previously expressed the opinion (§ 218.101) that section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) is applicable to a director of a member bank serving as a director of an open-end investment company, because the more or less continued process of redemption of the stock issued by such company makes the issuance and sale of its stock essential to the maintenance of the company's size and to the continuance of operations, with the result that the issuance and sale of its stock constitutes one of the primary activities of such a company. The Board also stated that if the company had ceased to issue or offer any of its stock for sale, the company would not be engaged in the issuance or distribution of its stock and therefore the prohibitions of section 32 would not be applicable. Subsequently, the Board expressed the opinion that section 32 would not be applicable in the case of a closed-end investment company.
(b) The Board has recently stated that it believed that a closed-end company which was in process of organization and was actively engaged in issuing and selling its shares was in the same position relative to section 32 as an open-end company, and that the section would be applicable while this activity continued.
[25 FR 3464, Apr. 21, 1960. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.402
Service as officer, director, or employee of licensee corporation under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
(a) The Board of Governors has been requested to express an opinion whether § 218.1 would prohibit an officer, director, or employee of a member bank
from serving at the same time as an officer, director, or employee of a Licensee corporation under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
). It is understood that a Licensee would be authorized to engage only in the activities set forth in the statute, namely, to provide capital and long-term loan funds to small business concerns.
(b) In the opinion of the Board, a corporation engaged exclusively in the enumerated activities would not be “primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities.” Accordingly, the prohibition of § 218.1 would not apply to serving as an officer, director, or employee of either a small business investment company organized under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, or an investment company chartered under the laws of a State solely for the purpose of operating under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
[25 FR 4427, May 19, 1960. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.403
Service of member bank and real estate investment company.
(a) The Board recently considered two inquiries regarding the question whether proposed real estate investment companies would be subject to the provisions of sections 20 and 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 377 and 78). These sections relate to affiliations between member banks and companies engaged principally in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale or distribution of stocks, bonds, or similar securities, and interlocking directorates between member banks and companies primarily so engaged. In both instances the companies, after their organization, would engage only in the business of financing real estate development or investing in real estate interests, and not in the type of business described in the statute. However, each of the companies, in the process of its organization, would issue its own stock. In one instance, it appeared that the stock would be issued over a period of from 30 to 60 days; in the other instance it was stated that the stock would be sold by a firm of underwriters and that distribution was expected to be completed in not more than a few days.
(b) On the basis of the facts stated, the Board concluded that the companies involved would not be subject to sections 20 and 32 of the Banking Act of 1933, since they would not be principally or primarily engaged in the business of issuing or distributing securities but would only be issuing their own stock for a period ordinarily required for corporate organization. The Board stated, however, that if either of the companies should subsequently issue additional shares frequently and in substantial amounts relative to the size of the company's capital structure, it would be necessary for the Board to reconsider the matter.
(c) Apart from the legal question, the Board noted that an arrangement of the kind proposed could involve some dangers to an affiliated bank because the relationship might tend to impair the independent judgment that should be exercised by the bank in appraising its credits and might cause the company to be so identified in the minds of the public with the bank that any financial reverses suffered by the company might affect the confidence of the public in the bank.
(d) Because of the foregoing conclusion that the companies would not be subject to sections 20 and 32, it seems advisable to clarify § 218.102, in which the Board took the position that a closed-end investment company which was in process of organization and was actively engaged in issuing and selling its shares was subject to section 32 as long as this activity continued. That interpretation should be regarded as applicable only where the circumstances are such as to indicate that the issuance of the company's stock is a primary or principal activity of the company. For example, such circumstances might exist where the initial stock of a company is actively issued over a period of time longer than that ordinarily required for corporate organization, or where, subsequent to organization, the company issues its own stock frequently and in
substantial amounts relative to the total amount of shares outstanding.
[26 FR 868, Jan. 28, 1961. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.404
Serving as director of member bank and corporation selling own stock.
(a) The Board recently considered the question whether section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) would be applicable to the service of a director of a corporation which planned to acquire or organize, as proceeds from the sale of stock became available, subsidiaries to operate in a wide variety of fields, including manufacturing, foreign trade, leasing of heavy equipment, and real estate development. The corporation had a paid-in capital of about $60,000 and planned to sell additional shares at a price totaling $10 million, with the proviso that if less than $3 million worth were sold by March 1962, the funds subscribed would be refunded. It thus appeared to be contemplated that the sale of stock would take at least a year, and there appeared to be no reason for believing that, if the venture proved successful, additional shares would not be offered so that the corporation could continue to expand.
(b) The Board concluded that section 32 would be applicable, stating that although § 218.102, as clarified by § 218.104, related to closed-end investment companies, the rationale of that interpretation is applicable to corporations generally.
[26 FR 2456, Mar. 23, 1961. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.405
No exception granted a special or limited partner.
(a) The Board has been asked on several occasions whether section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) is applicable to a director, officer, or employee of a member bank who is a special or limited partner in a firm primarily engaged in the business described in that section.
(b) Since the Board cannot issue an individual permit, it can exempt a limited or special partner only by amending part 218 (Regulation R). After the statute was amended in 1935 so as to make it applicable to a
partner,
the Board carefully considered the desirability of making such an exception. On several subsequent occasions it has reconsidered the question. In each instance the Board has decided that in view of a limited partner's interest in the underwriting and distributing business, it should not make the exception.
[27 FR 7954, Aug. 10, 1962. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.406
Serving member bank and investment advisor with mutual fund affiliation.
(a) The opinion of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has been requested with respect to service as vice president of a corporation engaged in supplying investment advice and management services to mutual funds and others (“Manager”) and as director of a member bank.
(b) Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78), forbids any officer, director, or employee of any corporation “primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities * * *” to serve at the same time as an officer, director, or employee of a member bank.
(c) Manager has for several years served a number of different open-end or mutual funds, as well as individuals, institutions, and other clients, as an investment advisor and manager. However, it appears that Manager has a close relationship with two of the mutual funds which it serves. A wholly owned subsidiary of Manager (“Distributors”), serves as distributor for the two mutual funds and has no other function. In addition, the chairman and treasurer of Manager, as well as the president, assistant treasurer, and a director of Manager, are officers and directors of Distributors and trustees of both funds. It appears also that a director of Manager is president and director of Distributors, while the clerk of Manager is also clerk of Distributors. Manager, Distributors and both funds are listed at the same address in the local telephone directory.
(d) While the greater part of the total annual income of Manager during the
past five years has derived from “individuals, institutions, and other clients”, it appears that a substantial portion has been attributable to the involvement with the two funds in question. During each of the last four years, that portion has exceeded a third of the total income of Manager, and in 1962 it reached nearly 40 percent.
(e) The Board has consistently held that an open-end or mutual fund is engaged in the activities described in section 32, so long as it is issuing its securities for sale, since it is apparent that the more or less continued process of redemption of the stock issued by such a company would restrict and contract its activities if it did not continue to issue the stock. Clearly, a corporation that is engaged in underwriting or selling open-end shares, is so engaged.
(f) In connection with incorporated manager-advisors to open-end or mutual funds, the Board has expressed the view in a number of cases that where the corporation served a number of different clients, and the corporate structure was not interlocked with that of mutual fund and underwriter in such a way that it could be regarded as being controlled by or substantially one with them, it should not be held to be “primarily engaged” in section 32 activities. On the other hand, where a manager-advisor was created for the sole purpose of serving a particular fund, and its activities were limited to that function, the Board has regarded the group as a single entity for purposes of section 32.
(g) In the present case, the selling organization is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the advisor-manager, hence subject to the parent's control. Stock of the subsidiary will be voted according to decisions by the parent's board of directors, and presumably will be voted for a board of directors of the subsidiary which is responsive to policy lines laid down by the parent. Financial interests of the parent are obviously best served by an aggressive selling policy, and, in fact, both the share and the absolute amount of the parent's income provided by the two funds have shown a steady increase over recent years. The fact that dividends from Distributors have represented a relatively small proportion of the income of Manager, and that there were, indeed, no dividends in 1961 or 1962, does not support a contrary argument, in view of the steady increase in total income of Manager from the funds and Distributors taken as a whole.
(h) In view of all these facts, the Board has concluded that the separate corporate entities of Manager and Distributors should be disregarded and Distributors viewed as essentially a selling arm of Manager. As a result of this conclusion, section 32 would forbid interlocking service as an officer of Manager and a director of a member bank.
[28 FR 13437, Dec. 12, 1963. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.407
Interlocking relationship involving securities affiliate of brokerage firm.
(a) The Board of Governors was asked recently whether section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (“section 32”), 12 U.S.C. 78, prohibits the interlocking service of X as a director of a member bank of the Federal Reserve System and as a partner in a New York City brokerage firm (“Partnership”) having a corporation affiliate (“Corporation”) engaged in business of the kinds described in section 32 (“section 32 business”).
(b) Section 32, subject to an exception not applicable here, provides that
No officer, director, or employee of any corporation or unincorporated association, no partner or employee of any partnership, and no individual, primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, shall serve the same time as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank * * *.
(c) From the information submitted it appears that Partnership, a member firm of the New York Stock Exchange, is the successor of two prior partnerships, in one of which X had been a partner. This prior partnership had been found not to be “primarily engaged” in section 32 business. The other prior partnership, however, had been so engaged. By arrangement between the two prior firms, Corporation was formed chiefly for the purpose of
carrying on the section 32 business of the prior firm that had been “primarily engaged” in that business, which business was transferred to Corporation. The two prior firms were then merged and the stock of Corporation was acquired by all the partners of Partnership, other than X, in proportion to the respective partnership interests of the stockholding partners. The information submitted indicated also that two of the three directors and “some” of the principal officers of Corporation are partners in Partnership, although X is not a director or officer of Corporation.
(d) It is understood that the practice of forming corporate affiliates of brokerage firms, in order that the affiliate may carry on the securities business (such as section 32 business) with limited liability and other advantages, has become rather widespread in recent years. Accordingly, other cases may arise where a partner in such a firm may desire to serve at the same time as director of a member bank.
(e) On the basis of the information presented the Board concluded that X in his capacity as an “individual”, was not engaged in section 32 business. However, as that information showed Corporation to be “primarily engaged” in section 32 business, the Board stated that a finding that Partnership and Corporation were one entity for the purposes of the statute would mean that X would be forbidden to serve both the member bank and Partnership, if the one entity were so engaged.
(f) Paragraph .15 of Rule 321 of the New York Stock Exchange governing the formation and conduct of affiliated companies of member organizations states that:
Since Rule 314 provides that each member and allied member in a member organization must have a fixed interest in its entire business, it follows that the fixed interest of each member and allied member must extend to the member organization's corporate affiliate. When any of the corporate affiliate's participating stock is owned by the members and allied members in the member organization, such holdings must at all times be distributed among such members and allied members in approximately the same proportions as their respective interests in the profits of the member organization. When a member or allied member's interest in the member organization is changed, a corresponding change must be made in his participating interest in the affiliate.
(g) Although it was understood that X had received special permission from the Exchange not to own any of the stock of Corporation, it appeared to the Board that Rule 321.15 would apply to the remaining partners. Moreover, other paragraphs of the rule forbid transfers of the stock, except under certain circumstances to limited classes of persons, such as employees of the organization or estates of decedent partners, without permission of the Exchange.
(h) The information supplied to the Board clearly indicated that Corporation was formed in order to provide Partnership with an “underwriting arm”. Under Rule 321 of the Exchange, the partners (other than X) are required to own stock in Corporation because of their partnership interest, would be required to surrender that stock on leaving the partnership, and incoming partners would be required to acquire such stock. Furthermore, Rule 321 speaks of a corporate affiliate, such as Corporation, as a part of the “entire business” of a member organization.
(i) On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concluded that Partnership and Corporation must be regarded as a single entity or enterprise for purposes of section 32.
(j) The remaining question was whether the enterprise, as a whole, should be regarded as “primarily engaged” in section 32 business. The Information presented stated that the total dollar volume of section 32 business of Corporation during the first eleven months of its operation was $89 million. The gross income from section 32 business was less than half a million, and represented about 7.9 percent of the income of Partnership. The Board was advised that the relatively low amount of income from section 32 business of Corporation as due to special costs, and to the condition of the market for municipal and State bonds during the past year, a field in which Corporation specializes. Corporation is listed in a standard directory of securities dealers, and holds itself out as having separate departments to deal with
the principal underwriting areas in which it functions.
(k) In view of the above information, the Board concluded that the enterprise consisting of Partnership and Corporation was “primarily engaged” in section 32 business. Accordingly, the Board stated that the partners in Partnership, including X, were forbidden by that section and by this part 218 (Reg. R), issued pursuant to the statute, to serve as officers, directors, or employees of any member banks.
[29 FR 5315, Apr. 18, 1964. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.408
Short-term negotiable notes of banks not securities under section 32, Banking Act of 1933.
(a) The Board of Governors has been asked whether short-term unsecured negotiable notes of the kinds issued by some of the large banks in this country as a means of obtaining funds are “other similar securities” within the meaning of section 32, Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) and this part.
(b) Section 32 forbids certain interlocking relationships between banks which are members of the Federal Reserve System and individuals or organizations “primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities * * *.” Therefore, if such notes are securities similar to stocks or bonds, any dealing therein would be an activity covered in section 32 and would have to be taken into consideration in determining whether the individual or organization involved was “primarily engaged” in such activities.
(c) The Board has concluded that such short-term notes of the kind described above are not “other similar securities” within the meaning of section 32 and this part.
[29 FR 16065, Dec. 2, 1964. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.409
Investment for own account affects applicability of section 32.
(a) The Board of Governors has been presented with the question whether a certain firm is primarily engaged in the activities described in section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933. If the firm is so engaged, then the prohibitions of section 32 forbids a limited partner to serve as employee of a member bank.
(b) The firm describes the bulk of its business, producing roughly 60 percent of its income, as “investing for its own account.” However, it has a seat on the local stock exchange, and acts as specialist and odd-lot dealer on the floor of the exchange, an activity responsible for some 30 percent of its volume and profits. The firm's “off-post trading,” apart from the investment account, gives rise to about 5 percent of its total volume and 10 percent of its profits. Gross volume has risen from $4 to $10 million over the past 3 years, but underwriting has accounted for no more than one-half of 1 percent of that amount.
(c) Section 32 provides that
No officer, director, or employee of any corporation or unincorporated association, no partner, or employee of any partnership, and no individual, primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, at wholesale, or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, shall serve the same time (sic) as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank * * *
(d) In interpreting this language, the Board has consistently held that underwriting, acting as a dealer, or generally speaking, selling, or distributing securities as a principal, is covered by the section, while acting as broker or agent is not.
(e) In one type of situation, however, although a firm was engaged in selling securities as principal, on its own behalf, the Board held that section 32 did not apply. In these cases, the firm alleged that it bought and sold securities purely for investment purposes. Typically, those cases involved personal holding companies or small family investment companies. Securities had been purchased only for members of a restricted family group, and had been held for relatively long periods of time.
(f) The question now before the Board is whether a similar exception can apply in the case of the investment account of a professional dealer. In order to answer this question, it is necessary to analyze, in the light of applicable principles under the statute, the three main types of activity in which the
firm has been engaged, (1) acting as specialist and odd-lot dealer, (2) off-post trading as an ordinary dealer, and (3) investing for its own account.
(g) On several occasions, the Board has held that, to the extent the trading of a specialist or odd-lot dealer is limited to that required for him to perform his function on the floor of the exchange, he is acting essentially in an agency capacity. In a letter of September 13, 1934, the Board held that the business of a specialist was not of the kind described in the (unamended) section on the understanding that
* * * in acting as specialists on the New York Curb Exchange, it is necessary for the firm to buy and sell odd lots and * * * in order to protect its position after such transactions have been made, the firm sells or buys shares in lots of 100 or multiples thereof in order to reduce its position in the stock in question to the smallest amount possible by this method. It appears therefore that, in connection with these transactions, the firm is neither trading in the stock in question or taking a position in it except to the extent made necessary by the fact that it deals in odd lots and cannot complete the transactions by purchases and sales on the floor of the exchange except to the nearest 100 share amount.
(h) While subsequent amendments to section 32 to some extent changed the definition of the kinds of securities business that would be covered by the section, the amendments were designed so far as is relevant to the present question, to embody existing interpretations of the Board. Accordingly, to the extent that the firm's business is described by the above letter of the Board, it should not be considered to be of a kind described in section 32.
(i) Turning to the firm's off-post trading, the Board is inclined to agree with the view that this is sufficient to make the case a borderline one under the statute. In the circumstances, the Board might prefer to postpone making a determination until figures for 1965 could be reviewed, particularly in the light of the recent increase in total volume, if it were not for the third category, the firm's own investment account.
(j) While this question has not been squarely presented to it in the past, the Board is of the opinion that when a firm is doing any significant amount of business as a dealer or underwriter, then investments for the firm's own account should be taken into consideration in determining whether the firm is “primarily engaged” in the activities described in section 32. The division into dealing for one's own account, and dealing with customers, is a highly subjective one, and although a particular firm or individual may be quite scrupulous in separating the two, the opportunity necessarily exists for the kind of abuse at which the statute is directed. The Act is designed to prevent situations from arising in which a bank director, officer, or employee could influence the bank or its customers to invest in securities in which his firm has an interest, regardless of whether he, as an individual, is likely to do so. In the present case, when these activities are added to the firm's “off-post trading”, the firm clearly falls within the statutory definition.
(k) For the reasons just discussed, the Board concludes that the firm must be considered to be primarily engaged in activities described in section 32, and that the prohibitions of the section forbid a limited partner in that firm to serve as employee of a member bank.
(12 U.S.C. 248(i))
[30 FR 7743, June 16, 1965. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.410
Interlocking relationships between bank and its commingled investment account.
(a) The Board of Governors was asked recently whether the establishment of a proposed “Commingled Investment Account” (“Account”) by a national bank would involve a violation of section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 in view of the interlocking relationships that would exist between the bank and Account.
(b) From the information submitted, it was understood that Account would comprise a commingled fund, to be operated under the effective control of the bank, for the collective investment of sums of money that might otherwise be handled individually by the bank as managing agent. It was understood further that the Comptroller of the Currency had taken the position that Account would be an eligible operation
for a national bank under his Regulation 9, “Fiduciary Powers of National Banks and Collective Investment Funds” (part 9 of this title). The bank had advised the Board that the Securities and Exchange Commission was of the view that Account would be a “registered investment company” within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and that participating interests in Account would be “securities” subject to the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
(c) The information submitted showed also that the minimum individual participation that would be permitted in Account would be $10,000, while the maximum acceptable individual investment would be half a million dollars; that there would be no “load” or payment by customers for the privilege of investing in Account; and that:
The availability of the Commingled Account would not be given publicity by the Bank except in connection with the promotion of its fiduciary services in general and the Bank would not advertise or publicize the Commingled Account as such. Participations in the Commingled Account are to be made available only on the premises of the Bank (including its branches), or to persons who are already customers of the Bank in other connections, or in response to unsolicited requests.
(d) Such information indicated further that participations would be received by the bank as agent, under a broad authorization signed by the customer, substantially equivalent to the power of attorney under which customers currently deposit their funds for individual investment, and that the participations would not be received “in trust.”
(e) The Board understood that Account would be required to comply with certain requirements of the Federal securities laws not applicable to an ordinary common trust fund operated by a bank. In particular, supervision of Account would be in the hands of a committee to be initially appointed by the bank, but subsequently elected by participants having a majority of the units of participation in Account. At least one member of the committee would be entirely independent of the bank, but the remaining members would be officers in the trust department of the bank.
(f) The committee would make a management agreement with the bank under which the bank would be responsible for managing Account's investments, have custody of its assets, and maintain its books and records. The management agreement would be renewed annually if approved by the committee, including a “majority” of the independent members, or by a vote of participants having a majority of the units of participation. The agreement would be terminable on 60 days' notice by the committee, by such a majority of the participants, or by the bank, and would terminate automatically if assigned by the bank.
(g) It was understood also that the bank would receive as annual compensation for its services one-half of one percent of Account's average net assets. Account would also pay for its own independent professional services, including legal, auditing, and accounting services, as well as the cost of maintaining its registration and qualification under the Federal securities laws.
(h) Initially, the assets of Account would be divided into units of participation of an arbitrary value, and each customer would be credited with a number of units proportionate to his investment. Subsequently, the assets of Account would be valued at regular intervals, and divided by the number of units outstanding. New investors would receive units at their current value, determined in this way, according to the amount invested. Each customer would receive a receipt evidencing the number of units to which he was entitled. The receipts themselves would be nontransferable, but it would be possible for a customer to arrange with Account for the transfer of his units to someone else. A customer could terminate his participation at any time and withdraw the current value of his units.
(i) Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 provides in relevant part that:
No officer, director, or employee of any corporation or unincorporated association, no partner or employee of any partnership, and no individual, primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or
distribution, at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, shall serve [at] the same time as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank * * *.
(j) The Board concluded, based on its understanding of the proposal and on the general principles that have been developed in respect to the application of section 32, that the bank and Account would constitute a single entity for the purposes of section 32, at least so long as the operation of Account conformed to the representations made by the bank and outlined herein. Accordingly, the Board said that section 32 would not forbid officers of the bank to serve on Account's committee, since Account would be regarded as nothing more than an arm or department of the bank.
(k) In conclusion, the Board called attention to section 21 of the Banking Act of 1933 which, briefly, forbids a securities firm or organization to engage in the business of receiving deposits, subject to certain exceptions. However, since section 21 is a criminal statute, the Board has followed the policy of not expressing views as to its meaning. (1934 Federal Reserve Bulletin 41, 543.) The Board, therefore, expressed no position with respect to whether the section might be held Applicable to the establishment and operation of the proposed “Commingled Investment Account.”
(12 U.S.C. 248(i))
[30 FR 12836, Oct. 8, 1965. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.411
Interlocking relationships between member bank and variable annuity insurance company.
(a) The Board has recently been asked to consider whether section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) and this part prohibit interlocking service between member banks and (1) the board of managers of an accumulation fund, registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80), that sells variable annuities and (2) the board of directors of the insurance company, of which the accumulation fund is a “separate account,” but as to which the insurance company is the sponsor, investment advisor, underwriter, and distributor. Briefly, a variable annuity is one providing for annuity payment varying in accordance with the changing values of a portfolio of securities.
(b) Section 32 provides in relevant part that:
No officer, director, or employee of any corporation or unincorporated association, no partner or employee of any partnership, and no individual, primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, shall serve [at] the same time as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank * * *.
(c) For many years, the Board's position has been that an open-end investment company (or mutual fund) is “primarily engaged in the issue * * * public sale, or distribution * * * of securities” since the issuance and sale of its stock is essential to the maintenance of the company's size and to the continuance of its operations without substantial contraction, and that section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 prohibits an officer, director, or employee of any such company from serving at the same time as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank. (1951 Federal Reserve Bulletin 645; § 218.101.)
(d) For reasons similar to those stated by the U.S. Supreme Court in Securities and Exchange Commission
v.
Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company of America, 359 U.S. 65 (1959), the Board concluded that there is no meaningful basis for distinguishing a variable annuity interest from a mutual fund share for section 32 purposes and that, therefore, variable annuity interests should also be regarded as “other similar securities” within the prohibition of the statute and regulation.
(e) The Board concluded also that, since the accumulation fund, like a mutual fund, must continually issue and sell its investment units in order to avoid the inevitable contraction of its activities as it makes annuity payments or redeems variable annuity units, the accumulation fund is “primarily engaged” for section 32 purposes. The Board further concluded that the insurance company was likewise “primarily engaged” for the purposes of the statute since it had no significant revenue producing operations
other than as underwriter and distributor of the accumulation fund's units and investment advisor to the fund.
(f) Although it was clear, therefore, that section 32 prohibits any officers, directors, and employees of member banks from serving in any such capacity with the insurance company or accumulation fund, the Board also considered whether members of the board of managers of the accumulation fund are “officers, directors, or employees” within such prohibition. The functions of the board of managers, who are elected by the variable annuity contract owners, are, with the approval of the variable annuity contract owners, to select annually an independent public accountant, execute annually an agreement providing for investment advisory services, and recommend any changes in the fundamental investment policy of the accumulation fund. In addition, the Board of managers has sole authority to execute an agreement providing for sales and administrative services and to authorize all investments of the assets of the accumulation fund in accordance with its fundamental investment policy. In the opinion of the Board of Governors, the board of managers of the accumulation fund performs functions essentially the same as those performed by classes of persons as to whom the prohibition of section 32 was specifically directed and, accordingly, are within the prohibitions of the statute.
(12 U.S.C. 248(i))
[33 FR 12886, Sept. 12, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.412
Interlocking relationships between member bank and insurance company-mutual fund complex.
(a) The Board has been asked whether section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 and this part prohibited interlocking service between member banks and (1) the advisory board of a newly organized open-end investment company (mutual fund), (2) the fund's incorporated investment manager-advisor, (3) the insurance company sponsoring and apparently controlling the fund.
(b) X Fund, Inc. (“Fund”), the mutual fund, was closely related to X Life Insurance Company (“Insurance Company”), as well as to the incorporated manager and investment advisor to Fund (“Advisors”), and the corporation serving as underwriter for Fund (“Underwriters”). The same persons served as principal officers and directors of Insurance Company, Fund, Advisors, and Underwriters. In addition, several directors of member banks served as directors of Insurance Company and of Advisors and as members of the Advisory Board of Fund, and additional directors of member banks had been named only as members of the Advisory Board. All outstanding shares of Advisors and of Underwriters were apparently owned by Insurance Company.
(c) Section 32 provides in relevant part that:
No officer, director, or employee of any corporation * * * primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, shall serve [at] the same time as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank * * *.
(d) The Board of Governors reaffirmed its earlier position that an open-end investment company is “primarily engaged” in activities described in section 32 “even though the shares are sold to the public through independent organizations with the result that the investment company does not derive any direct profit from the sales.” (1951 Federal Reserve Bulletin 654, § 218.101.) Accordingly, the Board concluded that Fund must be regarded as so engaged, even though its shares were underwritten and distributed by Underwriters.
(e) As directors of the member banks involved in the inquiry were not officers, directors, or employees of either Fund or Underwriters, the relevant questions were whether—(1) Advisors, and (2) Insurance Company, should be regarded as being functionally and structurally so closely allied with Fund that they should be treated as one with it in determining the applicability of section 32. An additional question was whether members of the Advisory Board are “officers, directors, or employees” of Fund within the prohibition of the statute.
(f) Interlocking service with Advisory Board: The function of the Advisory
Board was merely to make suggestions and to counsel with Fund's Board of Directors in regard to investment policy. The Advisory Board had no authority to make binding recommendations in any area, and it did not serve in any sense as a check on the authority of the Board of Directors. Indeed, the Fund's bylaws provided that the Advisory Board “shall have no power or authority to make any contract or incur any liability whatever or to take any action binding upon the Corporation, the Officers, the Board of Directors or the Stockholders.” Members of the Advisory Board were appointed by the Board of Directors of Fund, which could remove any member of the Advisory Board at any time. None of the principal officers of Fund or of Underwriters were members of the Advisory Board; and the compensation of its members was expected to be nominal.
(g) The Board of Governors concluded that members of the Advisory Board need not be regarded as “officers, directors, or employees” of Fund or of Underwriters for purposes of section 32, and that the statute, therefore, did not prohibit officers, directors, or employees of member banks from serving as members of the Advisory Board.
(h) Interlocking service with Advisors: The principal officers and several of the directors of Advisors were identical with both those of Fund and of Underwriters. Entire management and investment responsibility for Fund had been placed, by contract, with Advisors, subject only to a review authority in the Board of Directors of Fund. Advisors also supplied office space for the conduct of Fund's affairs, and compensated members of the Advisory Board who are also officers or directors of Advisors. Moreover, it appeared that Advisors was created for the sole purpose of servicing Fund, and its activities were to be limited to that function.
(i) In the view of the Board of Governors, the structural and functional identity of Fund and Advisors was such that they were to be regarded as a single entity for purposes of section 32, and, accordingly, officers, directors, and employees of member banks were prohibited by section 32 from serving in any such capacity with such entity.
(j) Interlocking service with Insurance Company: It was clear that Insurance Company was not as yet “primarily engaged” in business of a kind described in section 32 with respect to the shares of the newly created Fund sponsored by Insurance Company, since the issue and sale of such shares had not yet commenced. Nor did it appear that Insurance Company would be so engaged in the preliminary stages of Fund's existence, when the disproportion between the insurance business of Insurance Company and the sale of Fund shares would be very great. However, it was also clear that if Fund was successfully launched, its activities would rather quickly reach a stage where a serious question would arise as to the applicability of the section 32 prohibition.
(k) An estimate supplied to the Board indicated that 100,000 shares of Fund might be sold annually to produce, based on then current values, annual gross sales receipts of over $1 million. Insurance Company's total gross income for its last fiscal year was almost $10 million. On this basis, about one-tenth of the annual gross income of the Insurance Company-Fund complex (more than one-tenth, if income from investments of Insurance Company was eliminated) would be derived from sales of Fund shares. Although total sales of shares of Fund during the first year might not approximate expectations, it was assumed that if the estimate or projection was correct, the annual rate of sale might well rise to that level before the end of the first year of operation.
(l) It appeared that net income of Insurance Company from Fund's operations would be minimal for the foreseeable future. However, it was understood that Insurance Company's chief reason for launching Fund was to provide salesmen for Insurance Company (who were to be the only sellers of shares of Fund, and most of whom, Insurance Company hoped, would qualify to sell those shares), with a “package” of mutual fund shares and life insurance policies that would provide increased competitive strength in a highly competitive field.
(m) The Board concluded that Insurance Company would be “primarily engaged” in issuing or distributing shares of Fund within the meaning of section 32 by not later than the time of realization of the aforementioned estimated annual rate of sale, and possibly before. As indicated in Board of Governors v. Agnew, 329 U.S. 441 at 446, the prohibition of the statute applies if the section 32 business involved is a “substantial” activity of the company.
(n) This, the Board observed, was not to suggest that officers, directors, or employees of Insurance Company who are also directors of member banks would be likely, as individuals, to use their positions with the banks to further sales of Fund's shares. However, as the Supreme Court pointed out in the Agnew case, section 32 is a “preventive or prophylactic measure.” The fact that the individuals involved “have been scrupulous in their relationships” to the banks in question “is immaterial.”
(12 U.S.C. 248(i))
[33 FR 13001, Sept. 14, 1968. Redesignated at 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
§ 250.413
“Bank-eligible” securities activities.
Section 32 of the Glass-Steagall Act (12 U.S.C. 78) prohibits any officer, director, or employee of any corporation or unincorporated association, any partner or employee of any partnership, and any individual, primarily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or other similar securities, from serving at the same time as an officer, director, or employee of any member bank of the Federal Reserve System. The Board is of the opinion that to the extent that a company, other entity or person is engaged in securities activities that are expressly authorized for a state member bank under section 16 of the Glass-Steagall Act (12 U.S.C. 24(7), 335), the company, other entity or individual is not engaged in the types of activities described in section 32. In addition, a securities broker who is engaged solely in executing orders for the purchase and sale of securities on behalf of others in the open market is not engaged in the business referred to in section 32.
[Reg. R, 61 FR 57289, Nov. 6, 1996]
Pt. 251

# PART 251—CONCENTRATION LIMIT (REGULATION XX)
Sec.
251.1
Authority, purpose, and other authorities.
251.2
Definitions.
251.3
Concentration limit.
251.4
Exceptions to the concentration limit.
251.5
No evasion.
251.6
Reporting requirements.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1818, 1844(b), 1852, 3101
et seq
.

# Source:
79 FR 68104, Nov. 14, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 251.1
Authority, purpose, and other authorities.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under sections 5 and 14 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1844 and 1852); section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1818); the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.); and the recommendations of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (76
Federal Register
6756) (February 8, 2011).
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart implements section 14 of the Bank Holding Company Act, which generally prohibits a financial company from merging or consolidating with, acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of, or otherwise acquiring control of, another company if the resulting company's consolidated liabilities would exceed 10 percent of the aggregate consolidated liabilities of all financial companies.
(c)
Other authorities.
Nothing in this part limits the authority of the Board under any other provision of law or regulation to prohibit or limit a financial company from merging or consolidating with, acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of, or otherwise acquiring control of, another company.
§ 251.2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified, for the purposes of this part:
(a)
Applicable accounting standards
means, with respect to a company, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), or such other accounting standard or method of estimation that the Board determines is appropriate pursuant to § 251.3(e).
(b)
Applicable risk-based capital rules
means consolidated risk-based capital rules established by an appropriate Federal banking agency that are applicable to a financial company.
(c)
Appropriate Federal banking agency
has the same meaning as in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)).
(d)
Control
has the same meaning as in § 225.2(e) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(e)).
(e)
Council
means the Financial Stability Oversight Council established by section 111 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5321).
(f)
Covered acquisition
means a transaction in which a company directly or indirectly merges or consolidates with, acquires all or substantially all of the assets of, or otherwise acquires control of another company. A covered acquisition does not include an acquisition of ownership or control of a company:
(1) In the ordinary course of collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith if the acquired securities or assets are divested within the time period permitted by the appropriate Federal banking agency (including extensions) or, if the financial company does not have an appropriate Federal banking agency, five years;
(2) In a fiduciary capacity in good faith under applicable fiduciary law if the acquired securities or assets are held in the ordinary course of business and not acquired for the benefit of the company or its shareholders, employees, or subsidiaries;
(3) In connection with
bona fide
underwriting or market-making activities;
(4) Solely in connection with a corporate reorganization and the companies involved are lawfully controlled and operated by the financial company both before and following the reorganization; and
(5) That is, or will be, an issuer of asset back securities (as defined in Section 3(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934) so long as the financial company that retains an ownership interest in the company complies with the credit risk retention requirements in the regulations issued pursuant to section 15G of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.
(g)
Financial company
includes:
(1) An insured depository institution;
(2) A bank holding company;
(3) A savings and loan holding company;
(4) A company that controls an insured depository institution;
(5) A nonbank financial company supervised by the Board, and
(6) A foreign bank or company that is treated as a bank holding company for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act.
(h)
Foreign financial company
means a financial company that is incorporated or organized in a country other than the United States.
(i)
Insured depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3(c)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)(2)).
(j)
Nonbank financial company supervised by the Board
means any nonbank financial company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323) shall be supervised by the Board and for which such determination is still in effect.
(k)
State
means any state, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
(l)
U.S. agency
has the same meaning as the term “agency” in § 211.21(b) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(b)).
(m)
Total regulatory capital
has the same meaning as the term “total capital” as defined under the applicable risk-based capital rules.
(n)
Total risk-based capital ratio
means the “total capital ratio” as calculated under the applicable risk-based capital rules.
(o)
Total risk-weighted assets
means the measure of consolidated risk-
weighted assets that a financial company uses to calculate its risk-based capital ratios under the applicable risk-based capital rules.
(p)
U.S. branch
has the same meaning as the term “branch” in § 211.21(e) of the Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21(e)).
(q)
U.S. company
means a company that is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the United States or any State.
(r)
U.S. financial company
means a financial company that is a U.S. company.
(s)
U.S. subsidiary
means any subsidiary, as defined in § 225.2(o) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(o)), that is a U.S. company.
§ 251.3
Concentration limit.
(a)
In general.
(1) Except as otherwise provided in § 251.4, a company may not consummate a covered acquisition if upon consummation of the transaction, the liabilities of the resulting company would exceed 10 percent of the financial sector liabilities, and the company is or would become a financial company.
(2)
Financial sector liabilities.
(i) Subject to paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, as of July 1 of a given year, financial sector liabilities are equal to the average of the year-end financial sector liabilities figure for the preceding two calendar years. The measure of financial sector liabilities will be in effect until June 30 of the following calendar year.
(ii) For the period beginning July 1, 2015, and ending June 30, 2016, financial sector liabilities are equal to the year-end financial sector liabilities figure as of December 31, 2014.
(iii) The year-end financial sector liabilities figure equals the sum of the total consolidated liabilities of all top-tier U.S. financial companies (as calculated under paragraph (b) of this section) and the U.S. liabilities of all top-tier foreign financial companies (as calculated under paragraph (c) of this section) as of December 31 of that year.
(iv) On an annual basis and no later than July 1 of any calendar year, the Board will calculate and publish the financial sector liabilities for the preceding calendar year and the average of the financial sector liabilities for the preceding two calendar years.
(b)
Calculating total consolidated liabilities.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section:
(1)
Covered acquisition by a U.S. company.
For a covered acquisition in which a U.S. company would acquire a U.S. company or a foreign company, liabilities of the resulting U.S. financial company equal the consolidated liabilities of the resulting U.S. financial company, calculated on a pro forma basis in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Covered acquisition by a foreign company of another foreign company.
For a covered acquisition in which a foreign company would acquire another foreign company, liabilities of the resulting foreign financial company equal the U.S. liabilities of the resulting financial company, calculated on a pro forma basis in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(3
) Covered acquisition by a foreign company of a U.S. company.
For a covered acquisition in which a foreign company would acquire a U.S. company, liabilities of the resulting foreign financial company equal the sum of: (i) The U.S. liabilities of the foreign company immediately preceding the transaction (calculated in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section) and (ii) the consolidated liabilities of the U.S. company immediately preceding the transaction (calculated in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section), reduced by the amount corresponding to any balances and transactions that would be eliminated in consolidation upon consummation of the transaction.
(c)
Liabilities of a U.S. company
—(1)
U.S. company subject to applicable risk-based capital rules.
For a U.S. company subject to applicable-risk based capital rules, consolidated liabilities are equal to:
(i) Total risk-weighted assets of the company; plus
(ii) The amount of assets that are deducted from the company's regulatory capital elements under the applicable risk-based capital rules, times a multiplier that is equal to the inverse of the company's total risk-based capital ratio minus one; minus
(iii) Total regulatory capital of the company.
(2)
U.S. company not subject to applicable risk-based capital rules.
For a U.S. company that is not subject to applicable risk-based capital rules (other than a qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter) that is subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter)), consolidated liabilities are equal to the total liabilities of such company on a consolidated basis, as determined under applicable accounting standards.
(3)
Qualifying community banking organizations.
For a U.S. company that is a qualifying community banking organization (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter) that is subject to the community bank leverage ratio framework (as defined in § 217.12 of this chapter), consolidated liabilities are equal to:
(i) Average total consolidated assets (as used in § 217.12 of this chapter) of the company as last reported on the qualifying community banking organization's applicable regulatory filing with the qualifying community banking organization's appropriate Federal banking agency; minus
(ii) The company's tier 1 capital (as defined in § 217.2 of this chapter and calculated in accordance with § 217.12(b) of this chapter).
(d)
Liabilities of a foreign company
—(1)
Foreign banking organization.
For a foreign banking organization, U.S. liabilities are equal to:
(i) The total consolidated assets of each U.S. branch or U.S. agency of the foreign banking organization, calculated in accordance with applicable accounting standards; plus
(ii) The total consolidated liabilities of each top-tier U.S. subsidiary that is subject to applicable risk-based capital rules (or reports information to the Board regarding its capital under risk-based capital rules applicable to bank holding companies), calculated as:
(A) Total consolidated risk-weighted assets of the subsidiary; plus
(B) The amount of assets that are deducted from the subsidiary's regulatory capital elements under the applicable risk-based capital rules, times a multiplier that is equal to the inverse of the subsidiary's total risk-based capital ratio minus one; minus
(C) Total consolidated regulatory capital of the subsidiary; plus
(iii) The total consolidated assets of each top-tier U.S. subsidiary that is not subject to applicable risk-based capital rules and does not report information regarding its capital under risk-based capital rules applicable to bank holding companies, calculated in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
(2)
Foreign financial company that is not a foreign banking organization.
For a foreign company that is not a foreign banking organization, U.S. liabilities are equal to:
(i) The total consolidated liabilities of each top-tier U.S. subsidiary that is subject to applicable risk-based capital rules (or reports information to the Board regarding its capital under risk-based capital rules applicable to bank holding companies), calculated as:
(A) Total consolidated risk-weighted assets of the subsidiary; plus
(B) The amount of assets that are deducted from the subsidiary's regulatory capital elements under the applicable risk-based capital rules, times a multiplier that is equal to the inverse of the company's total risk-based capital ratio minus one; minus
(C) Total regulatory capital of the subsidiary; plus
(ii) The total consolidated liabilities of each top-tier U.S. subsidiary that is not subject to applicable risk-based capital rules, calculated in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
(3)
Intercompany balances and transactions
—(i)
Foreign banking organization.
A foreign banking organization must reduce the amount of consolidated liabilities of its U.S. operations calculated pursuant to this paragraph (d) by amounts corresponding to intercompany balances and intercompany transactions between the foreign banking organization's U.S. domiciled affiliates, branches or agencies to the extent such items are not eliminated in consolidation, and increase consolidated liabilities by net intercompany balances and intercompany transactions between a non-U.S. domiciled affiliate and a U.S. domiciled affiliate,
branch, or agency of the foreign banking organization, to the extent such items are not reflected in the measure of liabilities.
(ii)
Foreign financial company.
A foreign company that is not a foreign banking organization may reduce the amount of consolidated liabilities of its U.S. operations calculated pursuant to this paragraph (d) by amounts corresponding to intercompany balances and intercompany transactions between the foreign organization's U.S. domiciled affiliates to the extent such items are not already eliminated in consolidation; provided that it increases consolidated liabilities by net intercompany balances and intercompany transactions between a non-U.S. domiciled affiliate and a U.S. domiciled affiliate, to the extent such items are not already reflected in the measure of liabilities.
(e)
Applicable accounting standard.
If a company does not calculate its total consolidated assets or liabilities under GAAP for any regulatory purpose (including compliance with applicable securities laws), the company may submit a request to the Board that the company use an accounting standard or method of estimation other than GAAP to calculate its liabilities for purposes of this part. The Board may, in its discretion and subject to Board review and adjustment, permit the company to provide estimated total consolidated liabilities on an annual basis using this accounting standard or method of estimation.
[79 FR 68104, Nov. 14, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 61802, Nov. 13, 2019]
§ 251.4
Exceptions to the concentration limit.
(a)
General.
With the prior written consent of the Board, the concentration limit under § 251.3 shall not apply to:
(1) A covered acquisition of an insured depository institution that is in default or in danger of default (as determined by the appropriate Federal banking agency of the insured depository institution, in consultation with the Board);
(2) A covered acquisition with respect to which assistance is provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under section 13(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1823(c)); or
(3) A covered acquisition that would result in an increase in the liabilities of the financial company that does not exceed $2 billion, when aggregated with all other acquisitions by the financial company made pursuant to this paragraph (a)(3) during the twelve months preceding the projected date of the acquisition.
(b)
Prior written consent
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a financial company must request that the Board provide prior written consent before the financial company consummates a transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Contents of request.
(i) A request for prior written consent under paragraph (a) of this section must contain:
(A) A description of the covered acquisition;
(B) The projected increase in the company's liabilities resulting from the acquisition;
(C) If the request is made pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the projected aggregate increase in the company's liabilities from acquisitions during the twelve months preceding the projected date of the acquisition; and
(D) Any additional information requested by the Board.
(ii) A financial company may satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (b) if:
(A) The proposed transaction otherwise requires approval by, or prior notice to, the Board under the Change in Bank Control Act, Bank Holding Company Act, Home Owners' Loan Act, International Banking Act, or any other applicable statute, and any regulation thereunder; and
(B) The financial company includes the information required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section in the notice or request for prior approval described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(3)
Procedures for providing written consent.
(i) The Board will act on a request for prior written consent filed under this paragraph (b) within 90 calendar days after the receipt of a complete request, unless that time period
is extended by the Board. To the extent that a proposed transaction otherwise requires approval from, or prior notice to, the Board under another provision of law, the Board will act on that request for prior written consent concurrently with its action on the request for approval or notice.
(ii) In acting on a request under this paragraph (b), the Board will consider whether the consummation of the covered acquisition could pose a threat to financial stability.
(c)
General consent.
The Board grants prior written consent for a covered acquisition that would result in an increase in the liabilities of the financial company that does not exceed $100 million, when aggregated with all other covered acquisitions by the financial company made pursuant to this paragraph (c) during the twelve months preceding the date of the acquisition. A financial company that relies on prior written consent pursuant to this paragraph (c) must provide a notice to the Board within 10 days after consummating the covered acquisition that describes the covered acquisition, the increase in the company's liabilities resulting from the acquisition, and the aggregate increase in the company's liabilities from covered acquisitions during the twelve months preceding the date of the acquisition.
§ 251.5
No evasion.
A financial company may not organize or operate its business or structure any acquisition of or merger or consolidation with another company in such a manner that results in evasion of the concentration limit established by section 14 of the Bank Holding Company Act or this part.
§ 251.6
Reporting requirements.
By March 31 of each year:
(a) A U.S. financial company (other than a U.S. financial company that is required to file the Bank Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report), the Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies (FR Y-9C), the Parent Company Only Financial Statements for Small Holding Companies (FR Y-9SP), or the Parent Company Only Financial Statements for Large Holding Companies (FR Y-9LP), or is required to report consolidated total liabilities on the Quarterly Savings and Loan Holding Company Report (FR 2320)) must report to the Board its consolidated liabilities as of the previous calendar year-end in the manner and form prescribed by the Board; and
(b) A foreign financial company (other than a foreign financial company that is required to file a FR Y-7) must report to the Board its U.S. liabilities as of the previous calendar year-end in the manner and form prescribed by the Board.
Pt. 252

# PART 252—ENHANCED PRUDENTIAL STANDARDS (REGULATION YY)

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
252.1
Authority and purpose.
252.2
Definitions.
252.3
Reservation of authority.
252.4
Nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board.
252.5
Categorization of banking organizations.

# Subpart B—Company-Run Stress Test Requirements for State Member Banks With Total Consolidated Assets Over $250 Billion
252.10
[Reserved]
252.11
Authority and purpose.
252.12
Definitions.
252.13
Applicability.
252.14
Stress test.
252.15
Methodologies and practices.
252.16
Reports of stress test results.
252.17
Disclosure of stress test results.

# Subpart C—Risk Committee Requirement for Bank Holding Companies With Total Consolidated Assets of $50 Billion or More and Less Than $100 Billion
252.20
[Reserved]
252.21
Applicability.
252.22
Risk committee requirement for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more.

# Subpart D—Enhanced Prudential Standards for Bank Holding Companies With Total Consolidated Assets of $100 Billion or More
252.30
Scope.
252.31
Applicability.
252.32
Risk-based and leverage capital and stress test requirements.
252.33
Risk-management and risk committee requirements.
252.34
Liquidity risk-management requirements.
252.35
Liquidity stress testing and buffer requirements.

# Subpart E—Supervisory Stress Test Requirements for Certain U.S. Banking Organizations With $100 Billion or More in Total Consolidated Assets and Nonbank Financial Companies Supervised by the Board
252.40
[Reserved]
252.41
Authority and purpose.
252.42
Definitions.
252.43
Applicability.
252.44
Analysis conducted by the Board.
252.45
Data and information required to be submitted in support of the Board's analyses.
252.46
Review of the Board's analysis; publication of summary results.
252.47
Corporate use of stress test results.

# Subpart F—Company-Run Stress Test Requirements for Certain U.S. Bank Holding Companies and Nonbank Financial Companies Supervised by the Board
252.50
[Reserved]
252.51
Authority and purpose.
252.52
Definitions.
252.53
Applicability.
252.54
Stress test.
252.55
[Reserved]
252.56
Methodologies and practices.
252.57
Reports of stress test results.
252.58
Disclosure of stress test results.

# Subpart G—External Long-term Debt Requirement, External Total Loss-absorbing Capacity Requirement and Buffer, and Restrictions on Corporate Practices for U.S. Global Systemically Important Banking Organizations
252.60
Applicability.
252.61
Definitions.
252.62
External long-term debt requirement.
252.63
External total loss-absorbing capacity requirement and buffer.
252.64
Restrictions on corporate practices of U.S. global systemically important banking organizations.
252.65
Disclosure requirements.

# Subpart H—Single-Counterparty Credit Limits
252.70
Applicability and general provisions.
252.71
Definitions.
252.72
Credit exposure limits.
252.73
Gross credit exposure.
252.74
Net credit exposure.
252.75
Investments in and exposures to securitization vehicles, investment funds, and other special purpose vehicles that are not subsidiaries of the covered company.
252.76
Aggregation of exposures to more than one counterparty due to economic interdependence or control relationships.
252.77
Exemptions.
252.78
Compliance.

# Subpart I—Requirements for Qualified Financial Contracts of Global Systemically Important Banking Organizations
252.81
Definitions.
252.82
Applicability.
252.83
U.S. Special Resolution Regimes.
252.84
Insolvency proceedings.
252.85
Approval of enhanced creditor protection conditions.
252.86
Foreign bank multi-branch master agreements.
252.87
Identification of global systemically important foreign banking organizations.
252.88
Exclusion of certain QFCs.
Subparts J-L [Reserved]

# Subpart M—Risk Committee Requirement for Foreign Banking Organizations With Total Consolidated Assets of at Least $50 Billion but Less Than $100 Billion
252.130
[Reserved]
252.131
Applicability.
252.132
Risk-committee requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more but less than $100 billion.

# Subpart N—Enhanced Prudential Standards for Foreign Banking Organizations With Total Consolidated Assets of $100 Billion or More and Combined U.S. Assets of Less Than $100 Billion
252.140
Scope.
252.141
[Reserved]
252.142
Applicability.
252.143
Risk-based and leverage capital requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more and combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion.
252.144
Risk-management and risk-committee requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more but combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion.
252.145
Liquidity risk-management requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more and combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion.
252.146
Capital stress testing requirements for foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more and combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion.
242.147
U.S. intermediate holding company requirement for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of less than $100 billion and U.S. non-branch assets of $50 billion or more.

# Subpart O—Enhanced Prudential Standards for Foreign Banking Organizations With Total Consolidated Assets of $100 Billion or More and Combined U.S. Assets of $100 Billion or More
252.150
Scope.
252.151
[Reserved]
252.152
Applicability.
252.153
U.S. intermediate holding company requirement for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more and U.S. non-branch assets of $50 billion or more.
252.154
Risk-based and leverage capital requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
252.155
Risk-management and risk-committee requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
252.156
Liquidity risk-management requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
252.157
Liquidity stress testing and buffer requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
252.158
Capital stress testing requirements for foreign banking organizations with combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.

# Subpart P—Covered IHC Long-Term Debt Requirement, Covered IHC Total Loss absorbing Capacity Requirement and Buffer, and Restrictions on Corporate Practices for Intermediate Holding Companies of Global Systemically Important Foreign Banking Organizations
252.160
Applicability.
252.161
Definitions.
252.162
Covered IHC long-term debt requirement.
252.163
Internal debt conversion order.
252.164
Identification as a resolution Covered IHC or a non-resolution Covered IHC.
252.165
Covered IHC total loss-absorbing capacity requirement and buffer.
252.166
Restrictions on corporate practices of intermediate holding companies of global systemically important foreign banking organizations.
252.167
Disclosure requirements for resolution Covered IHCs.

# Subpart Q—Single-Counterparty Credit Limits
252.170
Applicability and general provisions.
252.171
Definitions.
252.172
Credit exposure limits.
252.173
Gross credit exposure.
252.174
Net credit exposure.
252.175
Investments in and exposures to securitization vehicles, investment funds, and other special purpose vehicles that are not affiliates of the covered foreign entity.
252.176
Aggregation of exposures to more than one counterparty due to economic interdependence or control relationships.
252.177
Exemptions.
252.178
Compliance.
Subparts R-T [Reserved]

# Subpart U—Debt-to-Equity Limits for U.S. Bank Holding Companies and Foreign Banking Organizations
252.220
Debt-to-equity limits for U.S. bank holding companies.
252.221
Debt-to-equity limits for foreign banking organizations.
Appendix A to Part 252—Policy Statement on the Scenario Design Framework for Stress Testing
Appendix B to Part 252—Stress Testing Policy Statement

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 321-338a, 481-486, 1467a, 1818, 1828, 1831n, 1831o, 1831p-1, 1831w, 1835, 1844(b), 1844(c), 3101
et seq.,
3101 note, 3904, 3906-3909, 4808, 5361, 5362, 5365, 5366, 5367, 5368, 5371.

# Source:
77 FR 62391, Oct. 12, 2012, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 17315, Mar. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Board) under sections 162, 165, 167, and 168 of Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 1423-1432, 12 U.S.C. 5362, 5365, 5367, and 5368); section 9 of the Federal
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321-338a); section 5(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1844(b)); sections 8 and 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(b) and 1831p-1); the International Banking Act (12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.
); the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act (12 U.S.C. 3101 note); and 12 U.S.C. 3904, 3906-3909, and 4808.
(b)
Purpose.
This part implements certain provisions of section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365), which require the Board to establish enhanced prudential standards for certain bank holding companies, foreign banking organizations, nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board, and certain other companies.
[84 FR 59096, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.2
Definitions.
Unless otherwise specified, the following definitions apply for purposes of this part:
Affiliate
has the same meaning as in section 2(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(k)) and 12 CFR 225.2(a).
Applicable accounting standards
means GAAP, international financial reporting standards, or such other accounting standards that a company uses in the ordinary course of its business in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Average combined U.S. assets
means the average of combined U.S. assets for the four most recent calendar quarters or, if the banking organization has not reported combined U.S. assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, the combined U.S. assets for the most recent calendar quarter or average of the most recent calendar quarters, as applicable.
Average cross-jurisdictional activity
means the average of cross-jurisdictional activity for the four most recent calendar quarters or, if the banking organization has not reported cross-jurisdictional activity for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, the cross-jurisdictional activity for the most recent calendar quarter or average of the most recent calendar quarters, as applicable.
Average off-balance sheet exposure
means the average of off-balance sheet exposure for the four most recent calendar quarters or, if the banking organization has not reported total exposure and total consolidated assets or combined U.S. assets, as applicable, for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, the off-balance sheet exposure for the most recent calendar quarter or average of the most recent calendar quarters, as applicable.
Average total consolidated assets
means the average of total consolidated assets for the four most recent calendar quarters or, if the banking organization has not reported total consolidated assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, the total consolidated assets for the most recent calendar quarter or average of the most recent calendar quarters, as applicable.
Average total nonbank assets
means the average of total nonbank assets for the four most recent calendar quarters or, if the banking organization has not reported or calculated total nonbank assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, the total nonbank assets for the most recent calendar quarter or average of the most recent calendar quarters, as applicable.
Average U.S. non-branch assets
means the average of U.S. non-branch assets for the four most recent calendar quarters or, if the banking organization has not reported the total consolidated assets of its top-tier U.S. subsidiaries for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, the U.S. non-branch assets for the most recent calendar quarter or average of the most recent calendar quarters, as applicable.
Average weighted short-term wholesale funding
means the average of weighted short-term wholesale funding for each of the four most recent calendar quarters or, if the banking organization has not reported weighted short-term wholesale funding for each of the four most recent calendar quarters, the weighted short-term wholesale funding for the most recent calendar quarter or average of the most recent calendar quarters, as applicable.
Bank holding company
has the same meaning as in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)) and 12 CFR 225.2(c).
Banking organization
means:
(1) A bank holding company that is a U.S. bank holding company;
(2) A U.S. intermediate holding company; or
(3) A foreign banking organization.
Board
means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
Category II bank holding company
means a U.S. bank holding company identified as a Category II banking organization pursuant to § 252.5.
Category II foreign banking organization
means a foreign banking organization identified as a Category II banking organization pursuant to § 252.5.
Category II U.S. intermediate holding company
means a U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category II banking organization pursuant to § 252.5.
Category III bank holding company
means a U.S. bank holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to § 252.5.
Category III foreign banking organization
means a foreign banking organization identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to § 252.5.
Category III U.S. intermediate holding company
means a U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category III banking organization pursuant to § 252.5.
Category IV bank holding company
means a U.S. bank holding company identified as a Category IV banking organization pursuant to § 252.5.
Category IV foreign banking organization
means a foreign banking organization identified as a Category IV banking organization pursuant to § 252.5.
Category IV U.S. intermediate holding company
means a U.S. intermediate holding company identified as a Category IV banking organization pursuant to § 252.5.
Combined U.S. assets
means the sum of the consolidated assets of each top-tier U.S. subsidiary of the foreign banking organization (excluding any section 2(h)(2) company, if applicable) and the total assets of each U.S. branch and U.S. agency of the foreign banking organization, as reported by the foreign banking organization on the FR Y-15 or FR Y-7Q.
Combined U.S. operations
means:
(1) The U.S. branches and agencies of the foreign banking organization; and
(2) The U.S. subsidiaries of the foreign banking organization (excluding any section 2(h)(2) company, if applicable) and subsidiaries of such U.S. subsidiaries.
Company
means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, depository institution, business trust, special purpose entity, association, or similar organization.
Control
has the same meaning as in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)), and the terms controlled and controlling shall be construed consistently with the term control.
Council
means the Financial Stability Oversight Council established by section 111 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5321).
Credit enhancement
means a qualified financial contract of the type set forth in section 210(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XII), (iii)(X), (iv)(V), (v)(VI), or (vi)(VI) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(ii)(XII), (iii)(X), (iv)(V), (v)(VI), or (vi)(VI)) or a credit enhancement that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation determines by regulation is a qualified financial contract pursuant to section 210(c)(8)(D)(i) of Title II of the Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)(i)).
Cross-jurisdictional activity.
The cross-jurisdictional activity of a banking organization is equal to the cross-jurisdictional activity of the banking organization as reported on the FR Y-15.
Depository institution
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(c)).
DPC branch subsidiary
means any subsidiary of a U.S. branch or a U.S. agency acquired, or formed to hold assets acquired, in the ordinary course of business and for the sole purpose of securing or collecting debt previously contracted in good faith by that branch or agency.
Foreign banking organization
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 211.21(o), provided that if the top-tier foreign banking organization is incorporated in or organized under the laws of any State, the foreign banking organization shall not be treated as a foreign banking organization for purposes of this part.
FR Y-7
means the Annual Report of Foreign Banking Organizations reporting form.
FR Y-7Q
means the Capital and Asset Report for Foreign Banking Organizations reporting form.
FR Y-9C
means the Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies reporting form.
FR Y-9LP
means the Parent Company Only Financial Statements of Large Holding Companies.
FR Y-15
means the Systemic Risk Report.
Global methodology
means the assessment methodology and the higher loss absorbency requirement for global systemically important banks issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as updated from time to time.
Global systemically important banking organization
means a global systemically important bank, as such term is defined in the global methodology.
Global systemically important BHC
means a bank holding company identified as a global systemically important BHC pursuant to 12 CFR 217.402.
Global systemically important foreign banking organization
means a top-tier foreign banking organization that is identified as a global systemically important foreign banking organization under § 252.147(b)(4) or § 252.153(b)(4) of this part.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Home country,
with respect to a foreign banking organization, means the country in which the foreign banking organization is chartered or incorporated.
Home country resolution authority,
with respect to a foreign banking organization, means the governmental entity or entities that under the laws of the foreign banking organization's home county has responsibility for the resolution of the top-tier foreign banking organization.
Home-country supervisor,
with respect to a foreign banking organization, means the governmental entity or entities that under the laws of the foreign banking organization's home county has responsibility for the supervision and regulation of the top-tier foreign banking organization.
Nonbank financial company supervised by the Board
means a company that the Council has determined under section 113 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5323) shall be supervised by the Board and for which such determination is still in effect.
Non-U.S. affiliate
means any affiliate of a foreign banking organization that is incorporated or organized in a country other than the United States.
Off-balance sheet exposure.
(1) The off-balance sheet exposure of a U.S. bank holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company is equal to:
(i) The total exposure of such banking organization, as reported by the banking organization on the FR Y-15; minus
(ii) The total consolidated assets of such banking organization for the same calendar quarter.
(2) The off-balance sheet exposure of a foreign banking organization is equal to:
(i) The total exposure of the combined U.S. operations of the foreign banking organization, as reported by the foreign banking organization on the FR Y-15; minus
(ii) The combined U.S. assets of the foreign banking organization for the same calendar quarter.
Publicly traded
means an instrument that is traded on:
(1) Any exchange registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f); or
(2) Any non-U.S.-based securities exchange that:
(i) Is registered with, or approved by, a non-U.S. national securities regulatory authority; and
(ii) Provides a liquid, two-way market for the instrument in question, meaning that there are enough independent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a sales price reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined promptly and a trade can be settled at such price within a reasonable time period conforming with trade custom.
(3) A company can rely on its determination that a particular non-U.S.-based securities exchange provides a liquid two-way market unless the Board determines that the exchange does not provide a liquid two-way market.
Section 2(h)(2) company
has the same meaning as in section 2(h)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(h)(2)).
State
means any state, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
State member bank
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 208.2(g).
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
Top-tier foreign banking organization,
with respect to a foreign bank, means the top-tier foreign banking organization or, alternatively, a subsidiary of the top-tier foreign banking organization designated by the Board.
Total consolidated assets.
(1) Total consolidated assets of a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company is equal to the total consolidated assets of such banking organization calculated based on the average of the balances as of the close of business for each day for the calendar quarter or an average of the balances as of the close of business on each Wednesday during the calendar quarter, as reported on the FR Y-9C.
(2) Total consolidated assets of a foreign banking organization is equal to the total consolidated assets of the foreign banking organization, as reported on the FR Y-7Q.
(3) Total consolidated assets of a state member bank is equal to the total consolidated assets as reported by a state member bank on its Consolidated Report of Condition and Income (Call Report).
Total nonbank assets.
(1) Total nonbank assets of a U.S. bank holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company is equal to the total nonbank assets of such banking organization, as reported on the FR Y-9LP.
(2) Total nonbank assets of a foreign banking organization is equal to:
(i) The sum of the total nonbank assets of any U.S. intermediate holding company, if any, as reported on the FR Y-9LP; plus
(ii) The assets of the foreign banking organization's nonbank U.S. subsidiaries excluding the U.S. intermediate holding company, if any; plus
(iii) The sum of the foreign banking organization's equity investments in unconsolidated U.S. subsidiaries, excluding equity investments in any section 2(h)(2) company; minus
(iv) The assets of any section 2(h)(2) company.
U.S. agency
has the same meaning as the term “agency” in § 211.21(b) of this chapter.
U.S. bank holding company
means a bank holding company that is:
(1) Incorporated in or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; and
(2) Not a consolidated subsidiary of a bank holding company that is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the United States or any State.
U.S. branch
has the same meaning as the term “branch” in § 211.21(e) of this chapter.
U.S. branches and agencies
means the U.S. branches and U.S. agencies of a foreign banking organization.
U.S. government agency
means an agency or instrumentality of the United States whose obligations are fully and explicitly guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the full faith and credit of the United States.
U.S. government-sponsored enterprise
means an entity originally established or chartered by the U.S. government to serve public purposes specified by the U.S. Congress, but whose obligations are not explicitly guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
U.S. intermediate holding company
means a top-tier U.S. company that is required to be established pursuant to § 252.147 or § 252.153.
U.S. non-branch assets.
U.S. non-branch assets are equal to the sum of the consolidated assets of each top-tier U.S. subsidiary of the foreign banking organization (excluding any section
2(h)(2) company and DPC branch subsidiary, if applicable) as reported on the FR Y-7Q. In calculating U.S. non-branch assets, a foreign banking organization must reduce its U.S. non-branch assets by the amount corresponding to balances and transactions between a top-tier U.S. subsidiary and any other top-tier U.S. subsidiary (excluding any 2(h)(2) company or DPC branch subsidiary) to the extent such items are not already eliminated in consolidation.
U.S. subsidiary
means any subsidiary that is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the United States or any State, commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the North Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, or the United States Virgin Islands.
Weighted short-term wholesale funding
is equal to the weighted short-term wholesale funding of a banking organization, as reported on the FR Y-15.
[84 FR 59096, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.3
Reservation of authority.
(a)
In general.
Nothing in this part limits the authority of the Board under any provision of law or regulation to impose on any company additional enhanced prudential standards, including, but not limited to, additional risk-based or leverage capital or liquidity requirements, leverage limits, limits on exposures to single counterparties, risk-management requirements, stress tests, or other requirements or restrictions the Board deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this part or Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act, or to take supervisory or enforcement action, including action to address unsafe and unsound practices or conditions, or violations of law or regulation.
(b)
Modifications or extensions of this part.
The Board may extend or accelerate any compliance date of this part if the Board determines that such extension or acceleration is appropriate. In determining whether an extension or acceleration is appropriate, the Board will consider the effect of the modification on financial stability, the period of time for which the modification would be necessary to facilitate compliance with this part, and the actions the company is taking to come into compliance with this part.
(c)
Reservation of authority for certain foreign banking organizations.
The Board may permit a foreign banking organization to comply with the requirements of this part through a subsidiary. In making this determination, the Board shall consider:
(1) The ownership structure of the foreign banking organization, including whether the foreign banking organization is owned or controlled by a foreign government;
(2) Whether the action would be consistent with the purposes of this part; and
(3) Any other factors that the Board determines are relevant.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17315, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59098, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.4
Nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board.
(a)
U.S. nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board.
The Board will establish enhanced prudential standards for a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that is incorporated in or organized under the laws of the United States or any State (U.S. nonbank financial company) by rule or order. In establishing such standards, the Board will consider the factors set forth in sections 165(a)(2) and (b)(3) of the Dodd-Frank Act, including:
(1) The nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, and mix of the activities of the U.S. nonbank financial company;
(2) The degree to which the U.S. nonbank financial company is already regulated by one or more primary financial regulatory agencies; and
(3) Any other risk-related factor that the Board determines is appropriate.
(b)
Foreign nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board.
The Board will establish enhanced prudential standards for a nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that is organized or incorporated in a country other than the United States (foreign nonbank financial company) by rule or order. In establishing such standards, the Board will consider the factors set forth in sections 165(a)(2), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of the Dodd-Frank Act, including:
(1) The nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, and mix of the activities of the foreign nonbank financial company;
(2) The extent to which the foreign nonbank financial company is subject to prudential standards on a consolidated basis in its home country that are administered and enforced by a comparable foreign supervisory authority; and
(3) Any other risk-related factor that the Board determines is appropriate.
§ 252.5
Categorization of banking organizations.
(a)
General.
(1) A U.S. bank holding company with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more must determine its category among the four categories described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section at least quarterly.
(2) A U.S. intermediate holding company with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more must determine its category among the three categories described in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section at least quarterly.
(3) A foreign banking organization with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more and average combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more must determine its category among the three categories described in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section at least quarterly.
(b)
Global systemically important BHC.
A banking organization is a global systemically important BHC if it is identified as a global systemically important BHC pursuant to 12 CFR 217.402.
(c)
Category II.
(1) A banking organization is a Category II banking organization if the banking organization:
(i) Has:
(A)(
1
) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, $700 billion or more in average total consolidated assets;
(
2
) For a foreign banking organization, $700 billion or more in average combined U.S. assets; or
(B)(
1
) $75 billion or more in average cross-jurisdictional activity; and
(
2
)(
i
) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, $100 billion or more in average total consolidated assets; or
(
ii
) For a foreign banking organization, $100 billion or more in average combined U.S. assets; and
(ii) Is not a global systemically important BHC.
(2) After meeting the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a banking organization continues to be a Category II banking organization until the banking organization:
(i) Has:
(A)(
1
) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, less than $700 billion in total consolidated assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(
2
) For a foreign banking organization, less than $700 billion in combined U.S. assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; and
(B) Less than $75 billion in cross-jurisdictional activity for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(ii) Has:
(A) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(B) For a foreign banking organization, less than $100 billion in combined U.S. assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(iii) Meets the criteria in paragraph (b) to be a global systemically important BHC.
(d)
Category III.
(1) A banking organization is a Category III banking organization if the banking organization:
(i) Has:
(A)(
1
) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, $250 billion or more in average total consolidated assets; or
(
2
) For a foreign banking organization, $250 billion or more in average combined U.S. assets; or
(B)(
1
)(
i
) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, $100 billion or more in average total consolidated assets; or
(
ii
) For a foreign banking organization, $100 billion or more in average combined U.S. assets; and
(
2
) At least:
(
i
) $75 billion in average total nonbank assets;
(
ii
) $75 billion in average weighted short-term wholesale funding; or
(
iii
) $75 billion in average off-balance sheet exposure;
(ii) Is not a global systemically important BHC; and
(iii) Is not a Category II banking organization.
(2) After meeting the criteria in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a banking organization continues to be a Category III banking organization until the banking organization:
(i) Has:
(A)(
1
) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, less than $250 billion in total consolidated assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(
2
) For a foreign banking organization, less than $250 billion in combined U.S. assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(B) Less than $75 billion in total nonbank assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(C) Less than $75 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; and
(D) Less than $75 billion in off-balance sheet exposure for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(ii) Has:
(A) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters; or
(B) For a foreign banking organization, less than $100 billion in combined U.S. assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(iii) Meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section to be a global systemically important BHC; or
(iv) Meets the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be a Category II banking organization.
(e)
Category IV.
(1) A banking organization is a Category IV banking organization if the banking organization:
(i) Is not global systemically important BHC;
(ii) Is not a Category II banking organization;
(iii) Is not a Category III banking organization; and
(iv) Has:
(A) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more; or
(B) For a foreign banking organization, average combined U.S. assets of $100 billion or more.
(2) After meeting the criteria in paragraph (e)(1), a banking organization continues to be a Category IV banking organization until the banking organization:
(i) Has:
(A) For a U.S. bank holding company or a U.S. intermediate holding company, less than $100 billion in total consolidated assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(B) For a foreign banking organization, less than $100 billion in combined U.S. assets for each of the four most recent calendar quarters;
(ii) Meets the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section to be a global systemically important BHC;
(iii) Meets the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to be a Category II banking organization; or
(iv) Meets the criteria in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to be a Category III banking organization.
[84 FR 59099, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart B—Company-Run Stress Test Requirements for State Member Banks With Total Consolidated Assets Over $250 Billion

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 64045, Oct. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.10
[Reserved]
§ 252.11
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
12 U.S.C. 321-338a, 1818, 1831p-1, 3906-3909, 5365.
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart implements section 165(i)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2)), which requires state member banks with total consolidated assets of greater than $250 billion to conduct stress tests. This subpart also establishes definitions of stress tests and related terms, methodologies for conducting stress tests, and reporting and disclosure requirements.
[84 FR 59100, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.12
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
Advanced approaches
means the regulatory capital requirements at 12 CFR 217, subpart E, as applicable, and any successor regulation.
Asset threshold
means average total consolidated assets of greater than $250 billion.
Baseline scenario
means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a state member bank, and that reflect the consensus views of the economic and financial outlook.
Capital action
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.8(d)).
Covered company subsidiary
means a state member bank that is a subsidiary of a covered company as defined in subpart F of this part.
Planning horizon
means the period of at least nine consecutive quarters, beginning on the first day of a stress test cycle over which the relevant projections extend.
Pre-provision net revenue
means the sum of net interest income and non-interest income less expenses before adjusting for loss provisions.
Provision for credit losses
means:
(1) With respect to a state member bank that has adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for credit losses, as would be reported by the state member bank on the Call Report in the current stress test cycle; and
(2) With respect to a state member bank that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for loan and lease losses as would be reported by the state member bank on the Call Report in the current stress test cycle.
Regulatory capital ratio
means a capital ratio for which the Board has established minimum requirements for the state member bank by regulation or order, including, as applicable, the state member bank's regulatory capital ratios calculated under 12 CFR part 217 and the deductions required under 12 CFR 248.12; except that the state member bank shall not use the advanced approaches to calculate its regulatory capital ratios.
Scenarios
are those sets of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a state member bank that the Board determines are appropriate for use in the company-run stress tests, including, but not limited to baseline and severely adverse scenarios.
Severely adverse scenario
means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a state member bank and that overall are significantly more severe than those associated with the baseline scenario and may include trading or other additional components.
Stress test
means a process to assess the potential impact of scenarios on the consolidated earnings, losses, and capital of a state member bank over the planning horizon, taking into account the current condition, risks, exposures, strategies, and activities.
Stress test cycle
means the period beginning on January 1 of a calendar year and ending on December 31 of that year.
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2(o).
[84 FR 59100, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.13
Applicability.
(a)
Scope
—(1)
Applicability.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to any state member bank with average total consolidated assets of greater than $250 billion.
(2)
Ongoing applicability.
A state member bank (including any successor company) that is subject to any requirement in this subpart shall remain subject to any such requirement unless and until its total consolidated assets fall below $250 billion for each of four consecutive quarters, effective on the as-of date of the fourth consecutive Call Report.
(b)
Transition period.
(1) A state member bank that exceeds the asset threshold for the first time on or before September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the second calendar year after the state member bank becomes subject to this subpart, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(2) A state member bank that exceeds the asset threshold for the first time after September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the third year after the state member bank becomes subject to this subpart, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
[84 FR 59100, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.14
Stress test.
(a)
In general.
(1) A state member bank must conduct a stress test as required under this subpart.
(2)
Frequency
—(i)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, a state member bank must conduct a stress test according to the frequency in table 1 to § 252.14(a)(2)(i).
Table 1 to § 252.14(
a
)(2)(
i
)
If the state member bank is a
Then the stress test must be conducted
Subsidiary of a global systemically important BHC
Annually, by April 5 of each calendar year, based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.
Subsidiary of a Category II bank holding company
Annually, by April 5 of each calendar year, based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.
Subsidiary of a Category II U.S. intermediate holding company
Annually, by April 5 of each calendar year, based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.
Not a subsidiary of a:
(A) Global systemically important BHC;
(B) Category II bank holding company; or
(C) Category II U.S. intermediate holding company.
Biennially, by April 5 of each calendar year ending in an even number, based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.
(ii)
Change in frequency.
The Board may require a state member bank to conduct a stress test on a more or less frequent basis than would be required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.
(3)
Notice and response
—(i)
Notification of change in frequency.
If the Board requires a state member bank to change the frequency of the stress test under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the Board will notify the state member bank in writing and provide a discussion of the basis for its determination.
(ii)
Request for reconsideration and Board response.
Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, a state member bank may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement to conduct a stress test on a more or less frequent basis than would be required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. A state member bank's request for reconsideration must include an explanation as to why the request for reconsideration should be granted. The Board will respond in writing within 14 calendar days of receipt of the company's request.
(b)
Scenarios provided by the Board
—(1)
In general.
In conducting a stress test under this section, a state member bank must, at a minimum, use the scenarios provided by the Board. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, the Board will provide a description of the scenarios no later than February 15 of each calendar year.
(2)
Additional components.
(i) The Board may require a state member bank with significant trading activity, as determined by the Board and specified in the Capital Assessments and Stress Testing report (FR Y-14), to include a trading and counterparty component in its severely adverse scenario in the stress test required by this section. The Board may also require a state member bank that is subject to 12 CFR part 217, subpart F or that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company that is subject to section § 252.54(b)(2)(i) to include a trading and counterparty component in the state member bank's severely adverse scenario in the stress test required by this section. The data used in this component must be as of a date between October 1 of the previous calendar year and March 1 of the calendar year in which the stress test is performed, and the Board will communicate the as-of date and a description of the component to the company no
later than March 1 of that calendar year.
(ii) The Board may require a state member bank to include one or more additional components in its severely adverse scenario in the stress test required by this section based on the state member bank's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.
(3)
Additional scenarios.
The Board may require a state member bank to include one or more additional scenarios in the stress test required by this section based on the state member bank's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.
(4)
Notice and response
—(i)
Notification of additional component or scenario.
If the Board requires a state member bank to include one or more additional components in its severely adverse scenario under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or to use one or more additional scenarios under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Board will notify the company in writing by December 31 and include a discussion of the basis for its determination.
(ii)
Request for reconsideration and Board response.
Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the state member bank may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement that the company include the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s), including an explanation as to why the request for reconsideration should be granted. The Board will respond in writing within 14 calendar days of receipt of the company's request.
(iii)
Description of component.
The Board will provide the state member bank with a description of any additional component(s) or additional scenario(s) by March 1.
[84 FR 59100, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.15
Methodologies and practices.
(a)
Potential impact on capital.
In conducting a stress test under § 252.14, for each quarter of the planning horizon, a state member bank must estimate the following for each scenario required to be used:
(1) Losses, pre-provision net revenue, provision for credit losses, and net income; and
(2) The potential impact on the regulatory capital levels and ratios applicable to the covered bank, and any other capital ratios specified by the Board, incorporating the effects of any capital action over the planning horizon and maintenance of an allowance for loan losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as appropriate, for credit exposures throughout the planning horizon.
(b)
Controls and oversight of stress testing processes
—(1)
In general.
The senior management of a state member bank must establish and maintain a system of controls, oversight, and documentation, including policies and procedures, that are designed to ensure that its stress testing processes are effective in meeting the requirements in this subpart. These policies and procedures must, at a minimum, describe the company's stress testing practices and methodologies, and processes for validating and updating the company's stress test practices and methodologies consistent with applicable laws and regulations.
(2)
Oversight of stress testing processes.
The board of directors, or a committee thereof, of a state member bank must review and approve the policies and procedures of the stress testing processes as frequently as economic conditions or the condition of the company may warrant, but no less than each year that a stress test is conducted. The board of directors and senior management of the state member bank must receive a summary of the results of the stress test conducted under this section.
(3)
Role of stress testing results.
The board of directors and senior management of a state member bank must consider the results of the stress test in the normal course of business, including but not limited to, the state member bank's capital planning, assessment of capital adequacy, and risk management practices.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64045, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 75425, Dec. 2, 2015; 84 FR 4245, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59101, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.16
Reports of stress test results.
(a)
Reports to the Board of stress test results
—(1)
General.
A state member bank must report the results of the stress test to the Board in the manner and form prescribed by the Board, in accordance with paragraphs (a)(2) of this section.
(2)
Timing.
For each stress test cycle in which a stress test is conducted:
(i) A state member bank that is a covered company subsidiary must report the results of the stress test to the Board by April 5, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing; and
(ii) A state member bank that is not a covered company subsidiary must report the results of the stress test to the Board by July 31, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(b)
Contents of reports.
The report required under paragraph (a) of this section must include the following information for the baseline scenario, severely adverse scenario, and any other scenario required under § 252.14(b)(3):
(1) A description of the types of risks being included in the stress test;
(2) A summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test; and
(3) For each quarter of the planning horizon, estimates of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provision for credit losses, net income, and regulatory capital ratios;
(c)
Confidential treatment of information submitted.
The confidentiality of information submitted to the Board under this subpart and related materials shall be determined in accordance with applicable exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)) and the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information (12 CFR part 261).
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64045, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 4245, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59101, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 15604, Mar. 18, 2020]
§ 252.17
Disclosure of stress test results.
(a)
Public disclosure of results
—(1)
General.
A state member bank must publicly disclose a summary of the results of the stress test required under this subpart.
(2)
Timing.
For each stress test cycle in which a stress test is conducted:
(i) A state member bank that is a covered company subsidiary must publicly disclose a summary of the results of the stress test within 15 calendar days after the Board discloses the results of its supervisory stress test of the covered company pursuant to § 252.46(b), unless that time is extended by the Board in writing; and
(ii) A state member bank that is not a covered company subsidiary must publicly disclose a summary of the results of the stress test in the period beginning on October 15 and ending on October 31, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(3)
Disclosure method.
The summary required under this section may be disclosed on the website of a state member bank, or in any other forum that is reasonably accessible to the public.
(b)
Summary of results
—(1)
State member banks that are subsidiaries of bank holding companies.
A state member bank that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company satisfies the public disclosure requirements under this subpart if the bank holding company publicly discloses summary results of its stress test pursuant to this section or § 252.58, unless the Board determines that the disclosures at the holding company level do not adequately capture the potential impact of the scenarios on the capital of the state member bank and requires the state member bank to make public disclosures.
(2)
State member banks that are not subsidiaries of bank holding companies.
A state member bank that is not a subsidiary of a bank holding company or that is required to make disclosures under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must publicly disclose, at a minimum, the following information regarding the severely adverse scenario:
(i) A description of the types of risks being included in the stress test;
(ii) A summary description of the methodologies used in the stress test;
(iii) Estimates of—
(A) Aggregate losses;
(B) Pre-provision net revenue
(C) Provision for credit losses;
(D) Net income; and
(E) Pro forma regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Board; and
(iv) An explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in regulatory capital ratios.
(c)
Content of results.
(1) The disclosure of aggregate losses, pre-provision net revenue, provision for credit losses, and net income that is required under paragraph (b) of this section must be on a cumulative basis over the planning horizon.
(2) The disclosure of pro forma regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Board that is required under paragraph (b) of this section must include the beginning value, ending value and minimum value of each ratio over the planning horizon.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64045, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 4245, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59102, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart C—Risk Committee Requirement for Bank Holding Companies With Total Consolidated Assets of $50 Billion or More and Less Than $100 Billion

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 17316, Mar. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.20
[Reserved]
§ 252.21
Applicability.
(a)
General applicability.
A bank holding company must comply with the risk-committee requirements set forth in this subpart beginning on the first day of the ninth quarter following the date on which its average total consolidated assets equal or exceed $50 billion.
(b)
Cessation of requirements.
A bank holding company will remain subject to the requirements of this subpart until the earlier of the date on which:
(1) Its total consolidated assets are below $50 billion for each of four consecutive calendar quarters; and
(2) It becomes subject to the requirements of subpart D of this part.
[84 FR 59102, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.22
Risk committee requirement for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more.
(a)
Risk committee
—(1)
General.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must maintain a risk committee that approves and periodically reviews the risk-management policies of the bank holding company's global operations and oversees the operation of the bank holding company's global risk-management framework.
(2)
Risk-management framework.
The bank holding company's global risk-management framework must be commensurate with its structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size, and must include:
(i) Policies and procedures establishing risk-management governance, risk-management procedures, and risk-control infrastructure for its global operations; and
(ii) Processes and systems for implementing and monitoring compliance with such policies and procedures, including:
(A) Processes and systems for identifying and reporting risks and risk-management deficiencies, including regarding emerging risks, and ensuring effective and timely implementation of actions to address emerging risks and risk-management deficiencies for its global operations;
(B) Processes and systems for establishing managerial and employee responsibility for risk management;
(C) Processes and systems for ensuring the independence of the risk-management function; and
(D) Processes and systems to integrate risk management and associated controls with management goals and its compensation structure for its global operations.
(3)
Corporate governance requirements.
The risk committee must:
(i) Have a formal, written charter that is approved by the bank holding company's board of directors;
(ii) Be an independent committee of the board of directors that has, as its sole and exclusive function, responsibility for the risk-management policies of the bank holding company's global
operations and oversight of the operation of the bank holding company's global risk-management framework;
(iii) Report directly to the bank holding company's board of directors;
(iv) Receive and review regular reports on a not less than a quarterly basis from the bank holding company's chief risk officer provided pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section; and
(v) Meet at least quarterly, or more frequently as needed, and fully document and maintain records of its proceedings, including risk-management decisions.
(4)
Minimum member requirements.
The risk committee must:
(i) Include at least one member having experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms; and
(ii) Be chaired by a director who:
(A) Is not an officer or employee of the bank holding company and has not been an officer or employee of the bank holding company during the previous three years;
(B) Is not a member of the immediate family, as defined in 12 CFR 225.41(b)(3), of a person who is, or has been within the last three years, an executive officer of the bank holding company, as defined in 12 CFR 215.2(e)(1); and
(C)(
1
) Is an independent director under Item 407 of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.407(a)), if the bank holding company has an outstanding class of securities traded on an exchange registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f) (national securities exchange); or
(
2
) Would qualify as an independent director under the listing standards of a national securities exchange, as demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Board, if the bank holding company does not have an outstanding class of securities traded on a national securities exchange.
(b)
Chief risk officer
—(1)
General.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must appoint a chief risk officer with experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms.
(2)
Responsibilities.
(i) The chief risk officer is responsible for overseeing:
(A) The establishment of risk limits on an enterprise-wide basis and the monitoring of compliance with such limits;
(B) The implementation of and ongoing compliance with the policies and procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and the development and implementation of the processes and systems set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section; and
(C) The management of risks and risk controls within the parameters of the company's risk-control framework, and monitoring and testing of the company's risk controls.
(ii) The chief risk officer is responsible for reporting risk-management deficiencies and emerging risks to the risk committee and resolving risk-management deficiencies in a timely manner.
(3)
Corporate governance requirements.
(i) The bank holding company must ensure that the compensation and other incentives provided to the chief risk officer are consistent with providing an objective assessment of the risks taken by the bank holding company; and
(ii) The chief risk officer must report directly to both the risk committee and chief executive officer of the company.
[84 FR 59102, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart D—Enhanced Prudential Standards for Bank Holding Companies With Total Consolidated Assets of $100 Billion or More

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 17317, Mar. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.30
Scope.
This subpart applies to bank holding companies with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more.
[84 FR 59103, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.31
Applicability.
(a)
Applicability
—(1)
Initial applicability.
Subject to paragraph (c) of this section, a bank holding company must comply with the risk-management and
risk-committee requirements set forth in § 252.33 and the liquidity risk-management and liquidity stress test requirements set forth in §§ 252.34 and 252.35 no later than the first day of the fifth quarter following the date on which its average total consolidated assets equal or exceed $100 billion.
(2)
Changes in requirements following a change in category.
A bank holding company with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more that changes from one category of banking organization described in § 252.5(b) through (e) to another of such categories must comply with the requirements applicable to the new category no later than on the first day of the second quarter following the change in the bank holding company's category.
(b)
Cessation of requirements.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a bank holding company is subject to the risk-management and risk committee requirements set forth in § 252.33 and the liquidity risk-management and liquidity stress test requirements set forth in §§ 252.34 and 252.35 until its total consolidated assets are below $100 billion for each of four consecutive calendar quarters.
(c)
Applicability for bank holding companies that are subsidiaries of foreign banking organizations.
If a bank holding company that has average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more is controlled by a foreign banking organization, the U.S. intermediate holding company established or designated by the foreign banking organization must comply with the risk-management and risk committee requirements set forth in § 252.153(e)(3) and the liquidity risk-management and liquidity stress test requirements set forth in § 252.153(e)(4).
[84 FR 59103, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.32
Risk-based and leverage capital and stress test requirements.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must comply with, and hold capital commensurate with the requirements of, any regulations adopted by the Board relating to capital planning and stress tests, in accordance with the applicability provisions set forth therein.
[84 FR 59103, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.33
Risk-management and risk committee requirements.
(a)
Risk committee
—(1)
General.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must maintain a risk committee that approves and periodically reviews the risk-management policies of the bank holding company's global operations and oversees the operation of the bank holding company's global risk-management framework. The risk committee's responsibilities include liquidity risk-management as set forth in § 252.34(b).
(2)
Risk-management framework.
The bank holding company's global risk-management framework must be commensurate with its structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size and must include:
(i) Policies and procedures establishing risk-management governance, risk-management procedures, and risk-control infrastructure for its global operations; and
(ii) Processes and systems for implementing and monitoring compliance with such policies and procedures, including:
(A) Processes and systems for identifying and reporting risks and risk-management deficiencies, including regarding emerging risks, and ensuring effective and timely implementation of actions to address emerging risks and risk-management deficiencies for its global operations;
(B) Processes and systems for establishing managerial and employee responsibility for risk management;
(C) Processes and systems for ensuring the independence of the risk-management function; and
(D) Processes and systems to integrate risk management and associated controls with management goals and its compensation structure for its global operations.
(3)
Corporate governance requirements.
The risk committee must:
(i) Have a formal, written charter that is approved by the bank holding company's board of directors;
(ii) Be an independent committee of the board of directors that has, as its sole and exclusive function, responsibility for the risk-management policies of the bank holding company's global
operations and oversight of the operation of the bank holding company's global risk-management framework;
(iii) Report directly to the bank holding company's board of directors;
(iv) Receive and review regular reports on not less than a quarterly basis from the bank holding company's chief risk officer provided pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section; and
(v) Meet at least quarterly, or more frequently as needed, and fully document and maintain records of its proceedings, including risk-management decisions.
(4)
Minimum member requirements.
The risk committee must:
(i) Include at least one member having experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms; and
(ii) Be chaired by a director who:
(A) Is not an officer or employee of the bank holding company and has not been an officer or employee of the bank holding company during the previous three years;
(B) Is not a member of the immediate family, as defined in section 225.41(b)(3) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.41(b)(3)), of a person who is, or has been within the last three years, an executive officer of the bank holding company, as defined in section 215.2(e)(1) of the Board's Regulation O (12 CFR 215.2(e)(1)); and
(C)(
1
) Is an independent director under Item 407 of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.407(a)), if the bank holding company has an outstanding class of securities traded on an exchange registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a national securities exchange under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f) (national securities exchange); or
(
2
) Would qualify as an independent director under the listing standards of a national securities exchange, as demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Board, if the bank holding company does not have an outstanding class of securities traded on a national securities exchange.
(b)
Chief risk officer
—(1)
General.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must appoint a chief risk officer with experience in identifying, assessing, and managing risk exposures of large, complex financial firms.
(2)
Responsibilities.
(i) The chief risk officer is responsible for overseeing:
(A) The establishment of risk limits on an enterprise-wide basis and the monitoring of compliance with such limits;
(B) The implementation of and ongoing compliance with the policies and procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and the development and implementation of the processes and systems set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section; and
(C) The management of risks and risk controls within the parameters of the company's risk control framework, and monitoring and testing of the company's risk controls.
(ii) The chief risk officer is responsible for reporting risk-management deficiencies and emerging risks to the risk committee and resolving risk-management deficiencies in a timely manner.
(3)
Corporate governance requirements.
(i) The bank holding company must ensure that the compensation and other incentives provided to the chief risk officer are consistent with providing an objective assessment of the risks taken by the bank holding company; and
(ii) The chief risk officer must report directly to both the risk committee and chief executive officer of the company.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17317, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59103, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.34
Liquidity risk-management requirements.
(a)
Responsibilities of the board of directors
—(1)
Liquidity risk tolerance.
The board of directors of a bank holding company that is subject to this subpart must:
(i) Approve the acceptable level of liquidity risk that the bank holding company may assume in connection with its operating strategies (liquidity risk tolerance) at least annually, taking into account the bank holding company's capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size; and
(ii) Receive and review at least semi-annually information provided by senior management to determine whether
the bank holding company is operating in accordance with its established liquidity risk tolerance.
(2)
Liquidity risk-management strategies, policies, and procedures.
The board of directors must approve and periodically review the liquidity risk-management strategies, policies, and procedures established by senior management pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(b)
Responsibilities of the risk committee.
The risk committee (or a designated subcommittee of such committee composed of members of the board of directors) must approve the contingency funding plan described in paragraph (f) of this section at least annually, and must approve any material revisions to the plan prior to the implementation of such revisions.
(c)
Responsibilities of senior management
—(1)
Liquidity risk.
(i) Senior management of a bank holding company subject to this subpart must establish and implement strategies, policies, and procedures designed to effectively manage the risk that the bank holding company's financial condition or safety and soundness would be adversely affected by its inability or the market's perception of its inability to meet its cash and collateral obligations (liquidity risk). The board of directors must approve the strategies, policies, and procedures pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(ii) Senior management must oversee the development and implementation of liquidity risk measurement and reporting systems, including those required by this section and § 252.35.
(iii) Senior management must determine at least quarterly whether the bank holding company is operating in accordance with such policies and procedures and whether the bank holding company is in compliance with this section and § 252.35 (or more often, if changes in market conditions or the liquidity position, risk profile, or financial condition warrant), and establish procedures regarding the preparation of such information.
(2)
Liquidity risk tolerance.
Senior management must report to the board of directors or the risk committee regarding the bank holding company's liquidity risk profile and liquidity risk tolerance at least quarterly (or more often, if changes in market conditions or the liquidity position, risk profile, or financial condition of the company warrant).
(3)
Business lines or products.
(i) Senior management must approve new products and business lines and evaluate the liquidity costs, benefits, and risks of each new business line and each new product that could have a significant effect on the company's liquidity risk profile. The approval is required before the company implements the business line or offers the product. In determining whether to approve the new business line or product, senior management must consider whether the liquidity risk of the new business line or product (under both current and stressed conditions) is within the company's established liquidity risk tolerance.
(ii) Senior management must review at least annually significant business lines and products to determine whether any line or product creates or has created any unanticipated liquidity risk, and to determine whether the liquidity risk of each strategy or product is within the company's established liquidity risk tolerance.
(4)
Cash-flow projections.
Senior management must review the cash-flow projections produced under paragraph (e) of this section at least quarterly (or more often, if changes in market conditions or the liquidity position, risk profile, or financial condition of the bank holding company warrant) to ensure that the liquidity risk is within the established liquidity risk tolerance.
(5)
Liquidity risk limits.
Senior management must establish liquidity risk limits as set forth in paragraph (g) of this section and review the company's compliance with those limits at least quarterly (or more often, if changes in market conditions or the liquidity position, risk profile, or financial condition of the company warrant).
(6)
Liquidity stress testing.
Senior management must:
(i) Approve the liquidity stress testing practices, methodologies, and assumptions required in § 252.35(a) at least quarterly, and whenever the bank holding company materially revises its
liquidity stress testing practices, methodologies or assumptions;
(ii) Review the liquidity stress testing results produced under § 252.35(a) at least quarterly;
(iii) Review the independent review of the liquidity stress tests under § 252.34(d) periodically; and
(iv) Approve the size and composition of the liquidity buffer established under § 252.35(b) at least quarterly.
(d)
Independent review function.
(1) A bank holding company subject to this subpart must establish and maintain a review function that is independent of management functions that execute funding to evaluate its liquidity risk management.
(2) The independent review function must:
(i) Regularly, but no less frequently than annually, review and evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the company's liquidity risk-management processes, including its liquidity stress test processes and assumptions;
(ii) Assess whether the company's liquidity risk-management function complies with applicable laws and regulations, and sound business practices; and
(iii) Report material liquidity risk-management issues to the board of directors or the risk committee in writing for corrective action, to the extent permitted by applicable law.
(e)
Cash-flow projections.
(1) A bank holding company subject to this subpart must produce comprehensive cash-flow projections that project cash flows arising from assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet exposures over, at a minimum, short- and long-term time horizons. The bank holding company must update short-term cash-flow projections daily and must update longer-term cash-flow projections at least monthly.
(2) The bank holding company must establish a methodology for making cash-flow projections that results in projections that:
(i) Include cash flows arising from contractual maturities, intercompany transactions, new business, funding renewals, customer options, and other potential events that may impact liquidity;
(ii) Include reasonable assumptions regarding the future behavior of assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet exposures;
(iii) Identify and quantify discrete and cumulative cash flow mismatches over these time periods; and
(iv) Include sufficient detail to reflect the capital structure, risk profile, complexity, currency exposure, activities, and size of the bank holding company and include analyses by business line, currency, or legal entity as appropriate.
(3) The bank holding company must adequately document its methodology for making cash flow projections and the included assumptions and submit such documentation to the risk committee.
(f)
Contingency funding plan
—(1)
General.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must establish and maintain a contingency funding plan that sets out the company's strategies for addressing liquidity needs during liquidity stress events. The contingency funding plan must be commensurate with the company's capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size, and established liquidity risk tolerance. The company must update the contingency funding plan at least annually, and when changes to market and idiosyncratic conditions warrant.
(2)
Components of the contingency funding plan
—(i)
Quantitative assessment.
The contingency funding plan must:
(A) Identify liquidity stress events that could have a significant impact on the bank holding company's liquidity;
(B) Assess the level and nature of the impact on the bank holding company's liquidity that may occur during identified liquidity stress events;
(C) Identify the circumstances in which the bank holding company would implement its action plan described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, which circumstances must include failure to meet any minimum liquidity requirement imposed by the Board;
(D) Assess available funding sources and needs during the identified liquidity stress events;
(E) Identify alternative funding sources that may be used during the identified liquidity stress events; and
(F) Incorporate information generated by the liquidity stress testing required under § 252.35(a).
(ii)
Liquidity event management process.
The contingency funding plan must include an event management process that sets out the bank holding company's procedures for managing liquidity during identified liquidity stress events. The liquidity event management process must:
(A) Include an action plan that clearly describes the strategies the company will use to respond to liquidity shortfalls for identified liquidity stress events, including the methods that the company will use to access alternative funding sources;
(B) Identify a liquidity stress event management team that would execute the action plan described in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section;
(C) Specify the process, responsibilities, and triggers for invoking the contingency funding plan, describe the decision-making process during the identified liquidity stress events, and describe the process for executing contingency measures identified in the action plan; and
(D) Provide a mechanism that ensures effective reporting and communication within the bank holding company and with outside parties, including the Board and other relevant supervisors, counterparties, and other stakeholders.
(iii)
Monitoring.
The contingency funding plan must include procedures for monitoring emerging liquidity stress events. The procedures must identify early warning indicators that are tailored to the company's capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size.
(iv)
Testing.
The bank holding company must periodically test:
(A) The components of the contingency funding plan to assess the plan's reliability during liquidity stress events;
(B) The operational elements of the contingency funding plan, including operational simulations to test communications, coordination, and decision-making by relevant management; and
(C) The methods the bank holding company will use to access alternative funding sources to determine whether these funding sources will be readily available when needed.
(g)
Liquidity risk limits
—(1)
General.
A bank holding company must monitor sources of liquidity risk and establish limits on liquidity risk that are consistent with the company's established liquidity risk tolerance and that reflect the company's capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size.
(2)
Liquidity risk limits established by a global systemically important BHC, Category II bank holding company, or Category III bank holding company.
If the bank holding company is a global systemically important BHC, Category II bank holding company, or Category III bank holding company, liquidity risk limits established under paragraph (g)(1) of this section must include limits on:
(i) Concentrations in sources of funding by instrument type, single counterparty, counterparty type, secured and unsecured funding, and as applicable, other forms of liquidity risk;
(ii) The amount of liabilities that mature within various time horizons; and
(iii) Off-balance sheet exposures and other exposures that could create funding needs during liquidity stress events.
(h)
Collateral, legal entity, and intraday liquidity risk monitoring.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must establish and maintain procedures for monitoring liquidity risk as set forth in this paragraph.
(1)
Collateral.
The bank holding company must establish and maintain policies and procedures to monitor assets that have been, or are available to be, pledged as collateral in connection with transactions to which it or its affiliates are counterparties. These policies and procedures must provide that the bank holding company:
(i) Calculates all of its collateral positions according to the frequency specified in paragraph (h)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section, or as directed by the Board, specifying the value of pledged
assets relative to the amount of security required under the relevant contracts and the value of unencumbered assets available to be pledged;
(A) If the bank holding company is not a Category IV bank holding company, on at least a weekly basis; or
(B) If the bank holding company is a Category IV bank holding company, on at least a monthly basis;
(ii) Monitors the levels of unencumbered assets available to be pledged by legal entity, jurisdiction, and currency exposure;
(iii) Monitors shifts in the bank holding company's funding patterns, such as shifts between intraday, overnight, and term pledging of collateral; and
(iv) Tracks operational and timing requirements associated with accessing collateral at its physical location (for example, the custodian or securities settlement system that holds the collateral).
(2)
Legal entities, currencies, and business lines.
The bank holding company must establish and maintain procedures for monitoring and controlling liquidity risk exposures and funding needs within and across significant legal entities, currencies, and business lines, taking into account legal and regulatory restrictions on the transfer of liquidity between legal entities.
(3)
Intraday exposures.
The bank holding company must establish and maintain procedures for monitoring intraday liquidity risk exposures that are consistent with the bank holding company's capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size. If the bank holding company is a global systemically important BHC, Category II bank holding company, or a Category III bank holding company, these procedures must address how the management of the bank holding company will:
(i) Monitor and measure expected daily gross liquidity inflows and outflows;
(ii) Manage and transfer collateral to obtain intraday credit;
(iii) Identify and prioritize time-specific obligations so that the bank holding company can meet these obligations as expected and settle less critical obligations as soon as possible;
(iv) Manage the issuance of credit to customers where necessary; and
(v) Consider the amounts of collateral and liquidity needed to meet payment systems obligations when assessing the bank holding company's overall liquidity needs.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17317, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59103, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.35
Liquidity stress testing and buffer requirements.
(a)
Liquidity stress testing requirement
—(1)
General.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must conduct stress tests to assess the potential impact of the liquidity stress scenarios set forth in paragraph (a)(3) of this section on its cash flows, liquidity position, profitability, and solvency, taking into account its current liquidity condition, risks, exposures, strategies, and activities.
(i) The bank holding company must take into consideration its balance sheet exposures, off-balance sheet exposures, size, risk profile, complexity, business lines, organizational structure, and other characteristics of the bank holding company that affect its liquidity risk profile in conducting its stress test.
(ii) In conducting a liquidity stress test using the scenarios described in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (iii) of this section, the bank holding company must address the potential direct adverse impact of associated market disruptions on the bank holding company and incorporate the potential actions of other market participants experiencing liquidity stresses under the market disruptions that would adversely affect the bank holding company.
(2)
Frequency.
The bank holding company must perform the liquidity stress tests required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section according to the frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii), or as directed by the Board:
(i) If the bank holding company is not a Category IV bank holding company, at least monthly; or
(ii) If the bank holding company is a Category IV bank holding company, at least quarterly.
(3)
Stress scenarios.
(i) Each liquidity stress test conducted under paragraph
(a)(1) of this section must include, at a minimum:
(A) A scenario reflecting adverse market conditions;
(B) A scenario reflecting an idiosyncratic stress event for the bank holding company; and
(C) A scenario reflecting combined market and idiosyncratic stresses.
(ii) The bank holding company must incorporate additional liquidity stress scenarios into its liquidity stress test, as appropriate, based on its financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities. The Board may require the bank holding company to vary the underlying assumptions and stress scenarios.
(4)
Planning horizon.
Each stress test conducted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must include an overnight planning horizon, a 30-day planning horizon, a 90-day planning horizon, a one-year planning horizon, and any other planning horizons that are relevant to the bank holding company's liquidity risk profile. For purposes of this section, a “planning horizon” is the period over which the relevant stressed projections extend. The bank holding company must use the results of the stress test over the 30-day planning horizon to calculate the size of the liquidity buffer under paragraph (b) of this section.
(5)
Requirements for assets used as cash-flow sources in a stress test.
(i) To the extent an asset is used as a cash flow source to offset projected funding needs during the planning horizon in a liquidity stress test, the fair market value of the asset must be discounted to reflect any credit risk and market volatility of the asset.
(ii) Assets used as cash-flow sources during a planning horizon must be diversified by collateral, counterparty, borrowing capacity, and other factors associated with the liquidity risk of the assets.
(iii) A line of credit does not qualify as a cash flow source for purposes of a stress test with a planning horizon of 30 days or less. A line of credit may qualify as a cash flow source for purposes of a stress test with a planning horizon that exceeds 30 days.
(6)
Tailoring.
Stress testing must be tailored to, and provide sufficient detail to reflect, a bank holding company's capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, and size.
(7)
Governance
—(i)
Policies and procedures.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must establish and maintain policies and procedures governing its liquidity stress testing practices, methodologies, and assumptions that provide for the incorporation of the results of liquidity stress tests in future stress testing and for the enhancement of stress testing practices over time.
(ii)
Controls and oversight.
A bank holding company subject to this subpart must establish and maintain a system of controls and oversight that is designed to ensure that its liquidity stress testing processes are effective in meeting the requirements of this section. The controls and oversight must ensure that each liquidity stress test appropriately incorporates conservative assumptions with respect to the stress scenario in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and other elements of the stress test process, taking into consideration the bank holding company's capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size, business lines, legal entity or jurisdiction, and other relevant factors. The assumptions must be approved by the chief risk officer and be subject to the independent review under § 252.34(d) of this subpart.
(iii)
Management information systems.
The bank holding company must maintain management information systems and data processes sufficient to enable it to effectively and reliably collect, sort, and aggregate data and other information related to liquidity stress testing.
(8)
Notice and response.
If the Board determines that a bank holding company must conduct liquidity stress tests according to a frequency other than the frequency provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, the Board will notify the bank holding company before the change in frequency takes effect, and describe the basis for its determination. Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the bank holding company may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement. The Board will respond in
writing to the company's request for reconsideration prior to requiring the company conduct liquidity stress tests according to a frequency other than the frequency provided in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(b)
Liquidity buffer requirement.
(1) A bank holding company subject to this subpart must maintain a liquidity buffer that is sufficient to meet the projected net stressed cash-flow need over the 30-day planning horizon of a liquidity stress test conducted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section under each scenario set forth in paragraph (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(2)
Net stressed cash-flow need.
The net stressed cash-flow need for a bank holding company is the difference between the amount of its cash-flow need and the amount of its cash flow sources over the 30-day planning horizon.
(3)
Asset requirements.
The liquidity buffer must consist of highly liquid assets that are unencumbered, as defined in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section:
(i)
Highly liquid asset.
A highly liquid asset includes:
(A) Cash;
(B) Assets that meet the criteria for high quality liquid assets as defined in 12 CFR 249.20; or
(C) Any other asset that the bank holding company demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Board:
(
1
) Has low credit risk and low market risk;
(
2
) Is traded in an active secondary two-way market that has committed market makers and independent bona fide offers to buy and sell so that a price reasonably related to the last sales price or current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined within one day and settled at that price within a reasonable time period conforming with trade custom; and
(
3
) Is a type of asset that investors historically have purchased in periods of financial market distress during which market liquidity has been impaired.
(ii)
Unencumbered.
An asset is unencumbered if it:
(A) Is free of legal, regulatory, contractual, or other restrictions on the ability of such company promptly to liquidate, sell or transfer the asset; and
(B) Is either:
(
1
) Not pledged or used to secure or provide credit enhancement to any transaction; or
(
2
) Pledged to a central bank or a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise, to the extent potential credit secured by the asset is not currently extended by such central bank or U.S. government-sponsored enterprise or any of its consolidated subsidiaries.
(iii)
Calculating the amount of a highly liquid asset.
In calculating the amount of a highly liquid asset included in the liquidity buffer, the bank holding company must discount the fair market value of the asset to reflect any credit risk and market price volatility of the asset.
(iv)
Operational requirements.
With respect to the liquidity buffer, the bank holding company must:
(A) Establish and implement policies and procedures that require highly liquid assets comprising the liquidity buffer to be under the control of the management function in the bank holding company that is charged with managing liquidity risk; and
(B) Demonstrate the capability to monetize a highly liquid asset under each scenario required under § 252.35(a)(3).
(v)
Diversification.
The liquidity buffer must not contain significant concentrations of highly liquid assets by issuer, business sector, region, or other factor related to the bank holding company's risk, except with respect to cash and securities issued or guaranteed by the United States, a U.S. government agency, or a U.S. government-sponsored enterprise.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 17317, Mar. 27, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 59105, Nov. 1, 2019]

# Subpart E—Supervisory Stress Test Requirements for Certain U.S. Banking Organizations With $100 Billion or More in Total Consolidated Assets and Nonbank Financial Companies Supervised by the Board

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 64049, Oct. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.40
[Reserved]
§ 252.41
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
12 U.S.C. 321-338a, 1818, 1831p-1, 1844(b), 1844(c), 5361, 5365, 5366, sec. 401(e), Pub. L. 115-174, 132 Stat. 1296.
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart implements section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act (12 U.S.C. 5365) and section 401(e) of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, which requires the Board to conduct annual analyses of nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board and bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in total consolidated assets to evaluate whether such companies have the capital, on a total consolidated basis, necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions.
[84 FR 59105, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.42
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart E, the following definitions apply:
Advanced approaches
means the risk-weighted assets calculation methodologies at 12 CFR part 217, subpart E, as applicable, and any successor regulation.
Baseline scenario
means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered company and that reflect the consensus views of the economic and financial outlook.
Covered company
means:
(1) A U.S. bank holding company with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more;
(2) A U.S. intermediate holding company subject to this section pursuant to § 252.153; and
(3) A nonbank financial company supervised by the Board.
Foreign banking organization
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 211.21(o).
Pre-provision net revenue
means the sum of net interest income and non-interest income less expenses before adjusting for loss provisions.
Planning horizon
means the period of at least nine consecutive quarters, beginning on the first day of a stress test cycle over which the relevant projections extend.
Provision for credit losses
means:
(1) With respect to a covered company that has adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for credit losses, as would be reported by the covered company on the FR Y-9C in the current stress test cycle; and,
(2) With respect to a covered company that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for loan and lease losses as would be reported by the covered company on the FR Y-9C in the current stress test cycle.
Regulatory capital ratio
means a capital ratio for which the Board has established minimum requirements for the company by regulation or order, including, as applicable, the company's regulatory capital ratios calculated under 12 CFR part 217 and the deductions required under 12 CFR 248.12; except that the company shall not use the advanced approaches to calculate its regulatory capital ratios.
Scenarios
are those sets of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered company that the Board determines are appropriate for use in the supervisory stress tests, including, but not limited to, baseline and severely adverse scenarios.
Severely adverse scenario
means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered company and that overall are significantly more severe than those associated with the baseline scenario and may include trading or other additional components.
Stress test cycle
means the period beginning on January 1 of a calendar year and ending on December 31 of that year.
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2.
[84 FR 59106, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.43
Applicability.
(a)
Scope
—(1)
Applicability.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this subpart applies to any covered company, which includes:
(i) Any U.S. bank holding company with average total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more;
(ii) Any U.S. intermediate holding company subject to this section pursuant to § 252.153; and
(iii) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that is made subject to this section pursuant to a rule or order of the Board.
(2)
Ongoing applicability.
A bank holding company or U.S. intermediate holding company (including any successor company) that is subject to any requirement in this subpart shall remain subject to any such requirement unless and until its total consolidated assets fall below $100 billion for each of four consecutive quarters.
(b)
Transitional arrangements.
(1) A bank holding company that becomes a covered company on or before September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the second calendar year after the bank holding company becomes a covered company, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(2) A bank holding company that becomes a covered company after September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the third calendar year after the bank holding company becomes a covered company, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64049, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 75425, Dec. 2, 2015; 82 FR 9329, Feb. 3, 2017; 84 FR 59106, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.44
Analysis conducted by the Board.
(a)
In general.
(1) The Board will conduct an analysis of each covered company's capital, on a total consolidated basis, taking into account all relevant exposures and activities of that covered company, to evaluate the ability of the covered company to absorb losses in specified economic and financial conditions.
(2) The analysis will include an assessment of the projected losses, net income, and pro forma capital levels and regulatory capital ratios and other capital ratios for the covered company and use such analytical techniques that the Board determines are appropriate to identify, measure, and monitor risks of the covered company that may affect the financial stability of the United States.
(3) In conducting the analysis, the Board will not incorporate changes to a firm's business plan that are likely to have a material impact on the covered company's capital adequacy and funding profile in its projections of losses, net income, pro forma capital levels, and capital ratios.
(b)
Economic and financial scenarios related to the Board's analysis.
The Board will conduct its analysis using a minimum of two different scenarios, including a baseline scenario and a severely adverse scenario. The Board will notify covered companies of the scenarios that the Board will apply to conduct the analysis for each stress test cycle to which the covered company is subject by no later than February 15 of that year, except with respect to trading or any other components of the scenarios and any additional scenarios that the Board will apply to conduct the analysis, which will be communicated by no later than March 1 of that year.
(c) In conducting a stress test under this section, the Board will make the following assumptions regarding a covered company's capital actions over the planning horizon:
(1) The covered company will not pay any dividends on any instruments that qualify as common equity tier 1 capital;
(2) The covered company will make payments on instruments that qualify as additional tier 1 capital or tier 2 capital equal to the stated dividend, interest, or principal due on such instrument;
(3) The covered company will not make a redemption or repurchase of any capital instrument that is eligible
for inclusion in the numerator of a regulatory capital ratio; and
(4) The covered company will not make any issuances of common stock or preferred stock.
(d)
Frequency of analysis conducted by the Board
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the Board will conduct its analysis of a covered company according to the frequency in Table 1 to § 252.44(d)(1).
Table 1 to § 252.44(
d
)(1)
If the covered company is a:
Then the Board will conduct its analysis:
Global systemically important BHC
Annually.
Category II bank holding company
Annually.
Category II U.S. intermediate holding company
Annually.
Category III bank holding company
Annually.
Category III U.S. intermediate holding company
Annually.
Category IV bank holding company
Biennially, occurring in each year ending in an even number.
Category IV U.S. intermediate holding company
Biennially, occurring in each year ending in an even number.
Nonbank financial company supervised by the Board
Annually.
(2)
Change in frequency.
(i) The Board may conduct a stress test of a covered company on a more or less frequent basis than would be required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.
(ii) A Category IV bank holding company or Category IV U.S. intermediate holding company may elect to have the Board conduct a stress test with respect to the company in a year ending in an odd number by providing notice to the Board and the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank by January 15 of that year. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, such a company may elect to have the Board conduct a stress test with respect to the company in the year 2021 by providing notice to the Board and the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank by April 5, 2021.
(3)
Notice and response
—(i)
Notification of change in frequency.
If the Board determines to change the frequency of the stress test under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, the Board will notify the company in writing and provide a discussion of the basis for its determination.
(ii)
Request for reconsideration and Board response.
Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, a covered company may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement to conduct a stress test on a more or less frequent basis than would be required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. A covered company's request for reconsideration must include an explanation as to why the request for reconsideration should be granted. The Board will respond in writing within 14 calendar days of receipt of the company's request.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64049, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 75425, Dec. 2, 2015; 84 FR 59106, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 15604, Mar. 18, 2020; 86 FR 7949, Feb. 3, 2021]
§ 252.45
Data and information required to be submitted in support of the Board's analyses.
(a)
Regular submissions.
Each covered company must submit to the Board such data, on a consolidated basis, that the Board determines is necessary in order for the Board to derive the relevant pro forma estimates of the covered company over the planning horizon under the scenarios described in § 252.44(b).
(b)
Additional submissions required by the Board.
The Board may require a covered company to submit any other information on a consolidated basis that the Board deems necessary in order to:
(1) Ensure that the Board has sufficient information to conduct its analysis under this subpart; and
(2) Project a company's pre-provision net revenue, losses, provision for credit losses, and net income; and pro forma capital levels, regulatory capital ratios, and any other capital ratio specified by the Board under the scenarios described in § 252.44(b).
(c)
Confidential treatment of information submitted.
The confidentiality of information submitted to the Board under this subpart and related materials shall be determined in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5
U.S.C. 552(b)) and the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information (12 CFR part 261).
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64049, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 75426, Dec. 2, 2015; 84 FR 4245, Feb. 14, 2019]
§ 252.46
Review of the Board's analysis; publication of summary results.
(a)
Review of results.
Based on the results of the analysis conducted under this subpart, the Board will conduct an evaluation to determine whether the covered company has the capital, on a total consolidated basis, necessary to absorb losses and continue its operation by maintaining ready access to funding, meeting its obligations to creditors and other counterparties, and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary under baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios, and any additional scenarios.
(b)
Publication of results by the Board.
(1) The Board will publicly disclose a summary of the results of the Board's analyses of a covered company by June 30 of the calendar year in which the stress test was conducted pursuant to § 252.44.
(2) The Board will notify companies of the date on which it expects to publicly disclose a summary of the Board's analyses pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section at least 14 calendar days prior to the expected disclosure date.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64049, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 9329, Feb. 3, 2017]
§ 252.47
Corporate use of stress test results.
(a)
In general.
The board of directors and senior management of each covered company must consider the results of the analysis conducted by the Board under this subpart, as appropriate:
(1) As part of the covered company's capital plan and capital planning process, including when making changes to the covered company's capital structure (including the level and composition of capital);
(2) When assessing the covered company's exposures, concentrations, and risk positions; and
(3) In the development or implementation of any plans of the covered company for recovery or resolution.
(b)
Resolution plan updates.
Each covered company must update its resolution plan as the Board determines appropriate, based on the results of the Board's analyses of the covered company under this subpart.

# Subpart F—Company-Run Stress Test Requirements for Certain U.S. Bank Holding Companies and Nonbank Financial Companies Supervised by the Board

# Source:
Reg. YY, 79 FR 64051, Oct. 27, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.50
[Reserved]
§ 252.51
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
12 U.S.C. 321-338a, 1818, 1831p-1, 1844(b), 1844(c), 5361, 5365, 5366.
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart establishes the requirement for a covered company to conduct stress tests. This subpart also establishes definitions of stress test and related terms, methodologies for conducting stress tests, and reporting and disclosure requirements.
[84 FR 59107, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.52
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
Advanced approaches
means the risk-weighted assets calculation methodologies at 12 CFR part 217, subpart E, as applicable, and any successor regulation.
Baseline scenario
means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered company and that reflect the consensus views of the economic and financial outlook.
Capital action
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.8(d).
Covered company
means:
(1) A global systemically important BHC;
(2) A Category II bank holding company;
(3) A Category III bank holding company;
(4) A Category II U.S. intermediate holding company subject to this section pursuant to § 252.153;
(5) A Category III U.S. intermediate holding company subject to this section pursuant to § 252.153; and
(6) A nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that is made subject to this section pursuant to a rule or order of the Board.
Foreign banking organization
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 211.21(o).
Planning horizon
means the period of at least nine consecutive quarters, beginning on the first day of a stress test cycle over which the relevant projections extend.
Pre-provision net revenue
means the sum of net interest income and non-interest income less expenses before adjusting for loss provisions.
Provision for credit losses
means:
(1) With respect to a covered company that has adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for credit losses, as would be reported by the covered company on the FR Y-9C in the current stress test cycle; and
(2) With respect to a covered company that has not adopted the current expected credit losses methodology under GAAP, the provision for loan and lease losses as would be reported by the covered company on the FR Y-9C in the current stress test cycle.
Regulatory capital ratio
means a capital ratio for which the Board has established minimum requirements for the company by regulation or order, including, as applicable, the company's regulatory capital ratios calculated under 12 CFR part 217 and the deductions required under 12 CFR 248.12; except that the company shall not use the advanced approaches to calculate its regulatory capital ratios.
Scenarios
are those sets of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered company that the Board determines are appropriate for use in the company-run stress tests, including, but not limited to, baseline and severely adverse scenarios.
Severely adverse scenario
means a set of conditions that affect the U.S. economy or the financial condition of a covered company and that overall are significantly more severe than those associated with the baseline scenario and may include trading or other additional components.
Stress test
means a process to assess the potential impact of scenarios on the consolidated earnings, losses, and capital of a covered company over the planning horizon, taking into account its current condition, risks, exposures, strategies, and activities.
Stress test cycle
means the period beginning on January 1 of a calendar year and ending on December 31 of that year.
Subsidiary
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2.
[84 FR 59107, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.53
Applicability.
(a)
Scope
—(1)
Applicability.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(3) and (b) of this section, this subpart applies to any covered company, which includes:
(i) Any global systemically important BHC;
(ii) Any Category II bank holding company;
(iii) Any Category III bank holding company;
(iv) Any Category II U.S. intermediate holding company subject to this section pursuant to § 252.153;
(v) Any Category III U.S. intermediate holding company subject to this section pursuant to § 252.153; and
(vi) Any nonbank financial company supervised by the Board that is made subject to this section pursuant to a rule or order of the Board.
(2)
Ongoing applicability.
(i) A bank holding company (including any successor company) that is subject to any requirement in this subpart shall remain subject to any such requirement unless and until the bank holding company:
(A) Is not a global systemically important BHC;
(B) Is not a Category II bank holding company; and
(C) Is not a Category III bank holding company.
(ii) A U.S. intermediate holding company (including any successor company) that is subject to any requirement in this subpart shall remain subject to any such requirement unless
and until the U.S. intermediate holding company:
(A) Is not a Category II U.S. intermediate holding company; and
(B) Is not a Category III U.S. intermediate holding company.
(3)
Insurance bank holding companies.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (a), this subpart does not apply to a covered company that is a bank holding company that is subject to part 217, subpart J, of this chapter.
(b)
Transitional arrangements.
(1) A company that becomes a covered company on or before September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the second calendar year after the company becomes a covered company, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(2) A company that becomes a covered company after September 30 of a calendar year must comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning on January 1 of the third calendar year after the company becomes a covered company, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
[84 FR 59107, Nov. 1, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 82980, Nov. 27, 2023]
§ 252.54
Stress test.
(a)
Stress test
—(1)
In general.
A covered company must conduct a stress test as required under this subpart.
(2)
Frequency
—(i)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, a covered company must conduct a stress test according to the frequency in Table 1 to § 252.54(a)(2)(i).
Table 1 to § 252.54(
a
)(2)(
i
)
If the covered company is a
Then the stress test must be conducted
Global systemically important BHC
Annually, by April 5 of each calendar year based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.
Category II bank holding company
Annually, by April 5 of each calendar year based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.
Category II U.S. intermediate holding company
Annually, by April 5 of each calendar year based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.
Category III bank holding company
Biennially, by April 5 of each calendar year ending in an even number, based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.
Category III U.S. intermediate holding company
Biennially, by April 5 of each calendar year ending in an even number, based on data as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year, unless the time or the as-of date is extended by the Board in writing.
Nonbank financial company supervised by the Board
Periodically, as determined by rule or order.
(ii)
Change in frequency.
The Board may require a covered company to conduct a stress test on a more or less frequent basis than would be required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.
(3)
Notice and response
—(i)
Notification of change in frequency.
If the Board requires a covered company to change the frequency of the stress test under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, the Board will notify the company in writing and provide a discussion of the basis for its determination.
(ii)
Request for reconsideration and Board response.
Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, a covered company may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement to conduct a stress test on a more or less frequent basis than would be required under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. A covered company's request for reconsideration must include an explanation as to why the request for reconsideration should be granted. The Board will respond in writing within 14 calendar days of receipt of the company's request.
(b)
Scenarios provided by the Board
—(1)
In general.
In conducting a stress
test under this section, a covered company must, at a minimum, use the scenarios provided by the Board. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, the Board will provide a description of the scenarios to each covered company no later than February 15 of the calendar year in which the stress test is performed pursuant to this section.
(2)
Additional components.
(i) The Board may require a covered company with significant trading activity to include a trading and counterparty component in its severely adverse scenario in the stress test required by this section. The data used in this component must be as of a date selected by the Board between October 1 of the previous calendar year and March 1 of the calendar year in which the stress test is performed pursuant to this section, and the Board will communicate the as-of date and a description of the component to the company no later than March 1 of the calendar year in which the stress test is performed pursuant to this section. A covered company has significant trading activity if it has:
(A) Aggregate trading assets and liabilities of $50 billion or more, or aggregate trading assets and liabilities equal to 10 percent or more of total consolidated assets;
(B) Is not a Category IV bank holding company.
(ii) The Board may require a covered company to include one or more additional components in its severely adverse scenario in the stress test required by this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.
(3)
Additional scenarios.
The Board may require a covered company to use one or more additional scenarios in the stress test required by this section based on the company's financial condition, size, complexity, risk profile, scope of operations, or activities, or risks to the U.S. economy.
(4)
Notice and response
—(i)
Notification of additional component.
If the Board requires a covered company to include one or more additional components in its adverse and severely adverse scenarios under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or to use one or more additional scenarios under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the Board will notify the company in writing. The Board will provide such notification no later than December 31 of the preceding calendar year. The notification will include a general description of the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s) and the basis for requiring the company to include the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s).
(ii)
Request for reconsideration and Board response.
Within 14 calendar days of receipt of a notification under this paragraph, the covered company may request in writing that the Board reconsider the requirement that the company include the additional component(s) or additional scenario(s), including an explanation as to why the request for reconsideration should be granted. The Board will respond in writing within 14 calendar days of receipt of the company's request.
(iii)
Description of component.
The Board will provide the covered company with a description of any additional component(s) or additional scenario(s) by March 1 of the calendar year in which the stress test is performed pursuant to this section.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64051, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 9330, Feb. 3, 2017; 84 FR 59108, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 15605, Mar. 18, 2020; 86 FR 7949, Feb. 3, 2021; 86 FR 22844, Apr. 30, 2021]
§ 252.55
[Reserved]
§ 252.56
Methodologies and practices.
(a)
Potential impact on capital.
In conducting a stress test under § 252.54, for each quarter of the planning horizon, a covered company must estimate the following for each scenario required to be used:
(1) Losses, pre-provision net revenue, provision for credit losses, and net income; and
(2) The potential impact on the regulatory capital levels and ratios applicable to the covered bank, and any other capital ratios specified by the Board, and in doing so must:
(i) Incorporate the effects of any capital action over the planning horizon and maintenance of an allowance for loan losses or adjusted allowance for credit losses, as appropriate, for credit
exposures throughout the planning horizon; and
(ii) Exclude the impacts of changes to a firm's business plan that are likely to have a material impact on the covered company's capital adequacy and funding profile.
(b)
Assumptions regarding capital actions.
In conducting a stress test under § 252.54, a covered company is required to make the following assumptions regarding its capital actions over the planning horizon:
(1) The covered company will not pay any dividends on any instruments that qualify as common equity tier 1 capital;
(2) The covered company will make payments on instruments that qualify as additional tier 1 capital or tier 2 capital equal to the stated dividend, interest, or principal due on such instrument;
(3) The covered company will not make a redemption or repurchase of any capital instrument that is eligible for inclusion in the numerator of a regulatory capital ratio; and
(4) The covered company will not make any issuances of common stock or preferred stock.
(c)
Controls and oversight of stress testing processes
—(1)
In general.
The senior management of a covered company must establish and maintain a system of controls, oversight, and documentation, including policies and procedures, that are designed to ensure that its stress testing processes are effective in meeting the requirements in this subpart. These policies and procedures must, at a minimum, describe the covered company's stress testing practices and methodologies, and processes for validating and updating the company's stress test practices and methodologies consistent with applicable laws and regulations.
(2)
Oversight of stress testing processes.
The board of directors, or a committee thereof, of a covered company must review and approve the policies and procedures of the stress testing processes as frequently as economic conditions or the condition of the covered company may warrant, but no less than each year a stress test is conducted. The board of directors and senior management of the covered company must receive a summary of the results of any stress test conducted under this subpart.
(3)
Role of stress testing results.
The board of directors and senior management of each covered company must consider the results of the analysis it conducts under this subpart, as appropriate:
(i) As part of the covered company's capital plan and capital planning process, including when making changes to the covered company's capital structure (including the level and composition of capital);
(ii) When assessing the covered company's exposures, concentrations, and risk positions; and
(iii) In the development or implementation of any plans of the covered company for recovery or resolution.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64051, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 75426, Dec. 2, 2015; 84 FR 4246, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59109, Nov. 1, 2019; 85 FR 15605, Mar. 18, 2020; 86 FR 7949, Feb. 3, 2021]
§ 252.57
Reports of stress test results.
(a)
Reports to the Board of stress test results.
A covered company must report the results of the stress test required under § 252.54 to the Board in the manner and form prescribed by the Board. Such results must be submitted by April 5 of the calendar year in which the stress test is conducted pursuant to § 252.54, unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(b)
Confidential treatment of information submitted.
The confidentiality of information submitted to the Board under this subpart and related materials shall be determined in accordance with applicable exemptions under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552(b)) and the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information (12 CFR part 261).
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64051, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 9330, Feb. 3, 2017; 84 FR 59109, Nov. 1, 2019]
§ 252.58
Disclosure of stress test results.
(a)
Public disclosure of results
—(1)
In general.
A covered company must publicly disclose a summary of the results of the stress test required under § 252.54 within the period that is 15 calendar days after the Board publicly discloses
the results of its supervisory stress test of the covered company pursuant to § 252.46(b), unless that time is extended by the Board in writing.
(2)
Disclosure method.
The summary required under this section may be disclosed on the Web site of a covered company, or in any other forum that is reasonably accessible to the public.
(b)
Summary of results.
The summary results must, at a minimum, contain the following information regarding the severely adverse scenario:
(1) A description of the types of risks included in the stress test;
(2) A general description of the methodologies used in the stress test, including those employed to estimate losses, revenues, provision for credit losses, and changes in capital positions over the planning horizon.
(3) Estimates of—
(i) Pre-provision net revenue and other revenue;
(ii) Provision for credit losses, realized losses or gains on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, trading and counterparty losses or gains;
(iii) Net income before taxes;
(iv) Loan losses (dollar amount and as a percentage of average portfolio balance) in the aggregate and by subportfolio, including: Domestic closed-end first-lien mortgages; domestic junior lien mortgages and home equity lines of credit; commercial and industrial loans; commercial real estate loans; credit card exposures; other consumer loans; and all other loans; and
(v) Pro forma regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Board;
(4) An explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in regulatory capital ratios; and
(5) With respect to any depository institution subsidiary that is subject to stress testing requirements pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2), as implemented by subpart B of this part, 12 CFR part 46 (OCC), or 12 CFR part 325, subpart C (FDIC), changes over the planning horizon in regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Board and an explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in regulatory capital ratios.
(c)
Content of results.
(1) The following disclosures required under paragraph (b) of this section must be on a cumulative basis over the planning horizon:
(i) Pre-provision net revenue and other revenue;
(ii) Provision for credit losses, realized losses/gains on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, trading and counterparty losses, and other losses or gain;
(iii) Net income before taxes; and
(iv) Loan losses in the aggregate and by subportfolio.
(2) The disclosure of pro forma regulatory capital ratios and any other capital ratios specified by the Board that is required under paragraph (b) of this section must include the beginning value, ending value, and minimum value of each ratio over the planning horizon.
[Reg. YY, 79 FR 64051, Oct. 27, 2014, as amended at 80 FR 75426, Dec. 2, 2015; 82 FR 9330, Feb. 3, 2017; 84 FR 4246, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 59109, Nov. 1, 2019; 86 FR 7949, Feb. 3, 2021]

# Subpart G—External Long-term Debt Requirement, External Total Loss-absorbing Capacity Requirement and Buffer, and Restrictions on Corporate Practices for U.S. Global Systemically Important Banking Organizations

# Source:
82 FR 8306, Jan. 24, 2017, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.60
Applicability.
(a)
General applicability.
This subpart applies to any U.S. bank holding company that is identified as a global systemically important BHC.
(b)
Initial applicability.
A global systemically important BHC shall be subject to the requirements of this subpart beginning on the later of:
(1) January 1, 2019; or
(2) 1095 days (three years) after the date on which the company becomes a global systemically important BHC.
§ 252.61
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Additional tier 1 capital
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.20(c).
Common equity tier 1 capital
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.20(b).
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.10(b)(1) and 12 CFR 217.10(c), as applicable.
Common equity tier 1 minority interest
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.2.
Default right
(1) Means any:
(i) Right of a party, whether contractual or otherwise (including rights incorporated by reference to any other contract, agreement or document, and rights afforded by statute, civil code, regulation and common law), to liquidate, terminate, cancel, rescind, or accelerate the agreement or transactions thereunder, set off or net amounts owing in respect thereto (except rights related to same-day payment netting), exercise remedies in respect of collateral or other credit support or property related thereto (including the purchase and sale of property), demand payment or delivery thereunder or in respect thereof (other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure), suspend, delay or defer payment or performance thereunder, modify the obligations of a party thereunder or any similar rights; and
(ii) Right or contractual provision that alters the amount of collateral or margin that must be provided with respect to an exposure thereunder, including by altering any initial amount, threshold amount, variation margin, minimum transfer amount, the margin value of collateral or any similar amount, that entitles a party to demand the return of any collateral or margin transferred by it to the other party or a custodian or that modifies a transferee's right to reuse collateral or margin (if such right previously existed), or any similar rights, in each case, other than a right or operation of a contractual provision arising solely from a change in the value of collateral or margin or a change in the amount of an economic exposure; and
(2) Does not include any right under a contract that allows a party to terminate the contract on demand or at its option at a specified time, or from time to time, without the need to show cause.
Discretionary bonus payment
has the same meaning as under 12 CFR 217.2.
Distribution
has the same meaning as under 12 CFR 217.2.
Eligible debt security
means, with respect to a global systemically important BHC:
(1) A debt instrument that:
(i) Is paid in, and issued by the global systemically important BHC;
(ii) Is not secured, not guaranteed by the global systemically important BHC or a subsidiary of the global systemically important BHC, and is not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(iii) Has a maturity of greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) from the date of issuance;
(iv) Is governed by the laws of the United States or any State thereof;
(v) Does not provide the holder of the instrument a contractual right to accelerate payment of principal or interest on the instrument, except a right that is exercisable on one or more dates that are specified in the instrument or in the event of:
(A) A receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the global systemically important BHC; or
(B) A failure of the global systemically important BHC to pay principal or interest on the instrument when due and payable that continues for 30 days or more;
(vi) Does not have a credit-sensitive feature, such as an interest rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the global systemically important BHC's credit quality, but may have an interest rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the global systemically important BHC's credit quality, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments;
(vii) Is not a structured note; and
(viii) Does not provide that the instrument may be converted into or exchanged for equity of the global systemically important BHC; and
(2) A debt instrument issued prior to December 31, 2016 that:
(i) Is paid in, and issued by the global systemically important BHC;
(ii) Is not secured, not guaranteed by the global systemically important BHC or a subsidiary of the global systemically important BHC, and is not subject to any other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of the instrument;
(iii) Has a maturity of greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) from the date of issuance;
(iv) Does not have a credit-sensitive feature, such as an interest rate that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the global systemically important BHC's credit quality, but may have an interest rate that is adjusted periodically independent of the global systemically important BHC's credit quality, in relation to general market interest rates or similar adjustments;
(v) Is not a structured note; and
(vi) Does not provide that the instrument may be converted into or exchanged for equity of the global systemically important BHC.
External TLAC risk-weighted buffer
means, with respect to a global systemically important BHC, the sum of 2.5 percent, any applicable countercyclical capital buffer under 12 CFR 217.11(b) (expressed as a percentage), and the global systemically important BHC's method 1 capital surcharge.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Global systemically important BHC
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.2.
GSIB surcharge
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.2.
Method 1 capital surcharge
means, with respect to a global systemically important BHC, the most recent method 1 capital surcharge (expressed as a percentage) the global systemically important BHC was required to calculate pursuant to subpart H of Regulation Q (12 CFR 217.400 through 217.406).
Outstanding eligible external long-term debt amount
is defined in § 252.62(b).
Person
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 225.2.
Qualified financial contract
has the same meaning as in section 210(c)(8)(D) of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390(c)(8)(D)).
Structured note
means a debt instrument that:
(1) Has a principal amount, redemption amount, or stated maturity that is subject to reduction based on the performance of any asset, entity, index, or embedded derivative or similar embedded feature;
(2) Has an embedded derivative or similar embedded feature that is linked to one or more equity securities, commodities, assets, or entities;
(3) Does not specify a minimum principal amount that becomes due upon acceleration or early termination; or
(4) Is not classified as debt under GAAP, provided that an instrument is not a structured note solely because it is one or both of the following:
(i) An instrument that is not denominated in U.S. dollars; or
(ii) An instrument where interest payments are based on an interest rate index.
Supplementary leverage ratio
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.10(c)(4).
Tier 1 minority interest
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.2.
Tier 2 capital
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.20(d).
Total leverage exposure
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 217.10(c)(4)(ii).
Total risk-weighted assets
means the greater of total risk-weighted assets as calculated under 12 CFR part 217, subpart D (the standardized approach) or 12 CFR part 217, subpart E (the internal ratings-based and advanced measurement approaches).
[82 FR 8306, Jan. 24, 2017, as amended at 86 FR 738, Jan. 6, 2021]
§ 252.62
External long-term debt requirement.
(a)
External long-term debt requirement.
Except as provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a global systemically important BHC must maintain an outstanding eligible external long-term debt amount that is no less than the amount equal to the greater of:
(1) The global systemically important BHC's total risk-weighted assets multiplied by the sum of 6 percent plus the global systemically important BHC's GSIB surcharge (expressed as a percentage); and
(2) 4.5 percent of the global systemically important BHC's total leverage exposure.
(b)
Outstanding eligible external long-term debt amount.
(1) A global systemically important BHC's outstanding eligible external long-term debt amount is the sum of:
(i) One hundred (100) percent of the amount due to be paid of unpaid principal of the outstanding eligible debt securities issued by the global systemically important BHC in greater than or equal to 730 days (two years);
(ii) Fifty (50) percent of the amount due to be paid of unpaid principal of the outstanding eligible debt securities issued by the global systemically important BHC in greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) and less than 730 days (two years); and
(iii) Zero (0) percent of the amount due to be paid of unpaid principal of the outstanding eligible debt securities issued by the global systemically important BHC in less than 365 days (one year).
(2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the date on which principal is due to be paid on an outstanding eligible debt security is calculated from the earlier of:
(i) The date on which payment of principal is required under the terms governing the instrument, without respect to any right of the holder to accelerate payment of principal; and
(ii) The date the holder of the instrument first has the contractual right to request or require payment of the amount of principal, provided that, with respect to a right that is exercisable on one or more dates that are specified in the instrument only on the occurrence of an event (other than an event of a receivership, insolvency, liquidation, or similar proceeding of the global systemically important BHC, or a failure of the global systemically important BHC to pay principal or interest on the instrument when due), the date for the outstanding eligible debt security under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) will be calculated as if the event has occurred.
(3) After notice and response proceedings consistent with 12 CFR part 263, subpart E, the Board may order a global systemically important BHC to exclude from its outstanding eligible long-term debt amount any debt security with one or more features that would significantly impair the ability of such debt security to take losses.
(c)
Redemption and repurchase.
A global systemically important BHC may not redeem or repurchase any outstanding eligible debt security without the prior approval of the Board if, immediately after the redemption or repurchase, the global systemically important BHC would not meet its external long-term debt requirement under paragraph (a) of this section, or its external total loss-absorbing capacity requirement under § 252.63(a).
§ 252.63
External total loss-absorbing capacity requirement and buffer.
(a)
External total loss-absorbing capacity requirement.
A global systemically important BHC must maintain an outstanding external total loss-absorbing capacity amount that is no less than the amount equal to the greater of:
(1) 18 percent of the global systemically important BHC's total risk-weighted assets; and
(2) 7.5 percent of the global systemically important BHC's total leverage exposure.
(b)
Outstanding external total loss-absorbing capacity amount.
A global systemically important BHC's outstanding external total loss-absorbing capacity amount is the sum of:
(1) The global systemically important BHC's common equity tier 1 capital (excluding any common equity tier 1 minority interest);
(2) The global systemically important BHC's additional tier 1 capital (excluding any tier 1 minority interest); and
(3) The global systemically important BHC's outstanding eligible external long-term debt amount plus 50 percent of the amount due to be paid of unpaid principal of outstanding eligible debt securities issued by the global systemically important BHC in, as calculated in § 252.62(b)(2), greater than or equal to 365 days (one year) but less than 730 days (two years).
(c)
External TLAC buffer
—(1)
Composition of the external TLAC risk-weighted
buffer.
The external TLAC risk-weighted buffer is composed solely of common equity tier 1 capital.
(2)
Definitions.
For purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions apply:
(i)
Eligible retained income.
The eligible retained income of a global systemically important BHC is the greater of:
(A) The global systemically important BHC's net income, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9C, for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter, net of any distributions and associated tax effects not already reflected in net income; and
(B) The average of the global systemically important BHC's net income, calculated in accordance with the instructions to the FR Y-9C, for the four calendar quarters preceding the current calendar quarter.
(ii)
Maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout ratio.
The maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout ratio is the percentage of eligible retained income that a global systemically important BHC can pay out in the form of distributions and discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter. The maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout ratio is based on the global systemically important BHC's external TLAC risk-weighted buffer level, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter, as set forth in Table 1 to § 252.63.
(iii)
Maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout amount.
A global systemically important BHC's maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout amount for the current calendar quarter is equal to the global systemically important BHC's eligible retained income, multiplied by the applicable maximum external TLAC risk-weighted payout ratio, as set forth in Table 1 to § 252.63.
(iv)
Maximum external TLAC leverage payout ratio.
The maximum external TLAC leverage payout ratio is the percentage of eligible retained income that a global systemically important BHC can pay out in the form of distributions and discretionary bonus payments during the current calendar quarter. The maximum external TLAC leverage payout ratio is based on the global systemically important BHC's external TLAC leverage buffer level, calculated as of the last day of the previous calendar quarter, as set forth in Table 2 to § 252.63.
(v)
Maximum external TLAC leverage payout amount.
