Mar. 21, 2025
Title 25
Indians
Parts 1 to 299
Revised as of April 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of April 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 25:
Chapter I—Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
3

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
1007
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
1027
List of CFR Sections Affected
1037
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
25 CFR 1.2
refers to title 25, part 1, section 2.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, April 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
April 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 25—
Indians
is composed of two volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: Parts 1—299, and part 300 to end. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of April 1, 2025.
For this volume, Stephen J. Frattini was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez.
25 CFR Ch. I (4-1-25 Edition)
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Interior

# Title 25—Indians
(This book contains parts 1 to 299)
Part
chapter i
—Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior
1

# CHAPTER I—BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

# SUBCHAPTER A—PROCEDURES AND PRACTICE
Part
Page
1
Applicability of rules of the Bureau of Indian Affairs
9
2
Appeals from administrative decisions
10
5
Preference in employment
29

# SUBCHAPTER B—LAW AND ORDER
10
Indian country detention facilities and programs
31
11
Courts of Indian offenses and law and order code
33
12
Indian country law enforcement
72
13
Tribal reassumption of jurisdiction over child custody proceedings
77

# SUBCHAPTER C—PROBATE
15
Probate of Indian estates, except for members of the Osage Nation and the Five Civilized Tribes
81
16
Estates of Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes
92
17
Action on wills of Osage Indians
94
18
Tribal probate codes
96

# SUBCHAPTER D—HUMAN SERVICES
20
Financial assistance and social services programs
102
23
Indian Child Welfare Act
123
26
Job placement and training program
158

# SUBCHAPTER E—EDUCATION
30
Standards, assessments, and accountability system
165
31
Federal schools for Indians
182
32
Indian education policies
183
33
Transfer of Indian education functions
188
36
Minimum academic standards for the basic education of Indian children and national criteria for dormitory situations
190
37
Geographic boundaries
210
38
Education personnel
212
39
The Indian school equalization program
226
40
Administration of educational loans, grants and other assistance for higher education
251
41
Grants to tribal colleges and universities and Diné College
252
42
Student rights
260
43
Maintenance and control of student records in Bureau schools
263
44
Grants under the Tribally Controlled Schools Act
269
46
Adult Education Program
271
47
Uniform direct funding and support for Bureau-operated schools
273
48
Leases of land or facilities of Bureau-operated schools and fundraising activities at Bureau-operated schools
276

# SUBCHAPTER F—TRIBAL GOVERNMENT
61
Preparation of rolls of Indians
284
62
Enrollment appeals
295
63
Indian child protection and family violence prevention
298
67
Preparation of a roll of independent Seminole Indians of Florida
307
75
Revision of the membership roll of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, North Carolina
311
81
Secretarial election procedures
316
82
[Reserved]
83
Procedures for Federal acknowledgment of Indian tribes
331
84
Encumbrances of tribal land—Contract approvals
349
87
Use or distribution of Indian judgment funds
351
88
Recognition of attorneys and agents to represent claimants
356
89
Attorney contracts with Indian tribes
357
90
Election of officers of the Osage Tribe
359
91
Government of Indian villages, Osage Reservation, Oklahoma
360

# SUBCHAPTER G—FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES
101
Loans to Indians from the Revolving Loan Fund
365
103
Loan guaranty, insurance, and interest subsidy
376
111
Annuity and other per capita payments
393
114
Special deposits [Reserved]
115
Trust funds for tribes and individual Indians
394
117
Deposit and expenditure of individual funds of members of the Osage Tribe of Indians who do not have certificates of competency
419
122
Management of Osage judgment funds for education
427
124
Deposits of proceeds from lands withdrawn for Native selection
429
134
Partial payment construction charges on Indian irrigation projects
430
135
Construction assessments, Crow Indian irrigation project
432
136
Fort Hall Indian irrigation project, Idaho
434
137
Reimbursement of construction costs, San Carlos Indian irrigation project, Arizona
434
138
Reimbursement of construction costs, Ahtanum Unit, Wapato Indian irrigation project, Washington
436
139
Reimbursement of construction costs, Wapato-Satus Unit, Wapato Indian irrigation project, Washington
437
140
Licensed Indian traders
438
141
Business practices on the Navajo, Hopi and Zuni Reservations
443
142
Alaska Resupply Operation
457
143
Charges for goods and services provided to non-Federal users
460

# SUBCHAPTER H—LAND AND WATER
150
Record of title to Indian land
463
151
Land acquisitions
468
152
Issuance of patents in fee, certificates of competency, removal of restrictions, and sale of certain Indian lands
479
153
Determination of competency: Crow Indians
487
158
Osage lands
488
159
Sale of irrigable lands, special water contract requirements
490
160
Inclusion of liens in all patents and instruments executed
490
161
Navajo partitioned lands grazing permits
491
162
Leases and permits
507
163
General forestry regulations
601
166
Grazing permits
628
167
Navajo grazing regulations
660
168
Grazing regulations for the Hopi Partitioned Lands area
665
169
Rights-of-way over Indian lands
671
170
Tribal Transportation Program
698
171
Irrigation operation and maintenance
747
172
Pueblo Indian lands benefited by irrigation and drainage works of Middle Rio Grande Conservancy District, New Mexico
757
173
Concessions, permits and leases on lands withdrawn or acquired in connection with Indian irrigation projects
757
175
Electric power utilities
761
179
Life estates and future interests
766
181
Indian Highway Safety Program
768
183
Use and distribution of the San Carlos Apache Tribe Development Trust Fund and San Carlos Apache Tribe Lease Fund
769

# SUBCHAPTER I—ENERGY AND MINERALS
200
Terms and conditions: Coal leases
774
211
Leasing of tribal lands for mineral development
774
212
Leasing of allotted lands for mineral development
789
213
Leasing of restricted lands of members of Five Civilized Tribes, Oklahoma, for mining
797
214
Leasing of Osage Reservation lands, Oklahoma, for mining, except oil and gas
810
215
Lead and zinc mining operations and leases, Quapaw Agency
816
216
Surface exploration, mining, and reclamation of lands
824
217
Management of tribal assets of Ute Indian Tribe, Uintah and Ouray Reservation, Utah, by the tribe and the Ute Distribution Corp.
830
224
Tribal energy resource agreements under the Indian Tribal Energy Development and Self Determination Act
831
225
Oil and gas, geothermal, and solid minerals agreements
859
226
Leasing of Osage Reservation lands for oil and gas mining
869
227
Leasing of certain lands in Wind River Indian Reservation, Wyoming, for oil and gas mining
885

# SUBCHAPTER J—FISH AND WILDLIFE
241
Indian fishing in Alaska
894
242
Commercial fishing on Red Lake Indian Reservation
897
243
Reindeer in Alaska
898
247
Use of Columbia River Treaty fishing access sites
901
248
Use of Columbia River Indian in-lieu fishing sites
905
249
Off-reservation treaty fishing
907

# SUBCHAPTER K—HOUSING
256
Housing Improvement Program (HIP)
911

# SUBCHAPTER L—HERITAGE PRESERVATION
262
Protection of archaeological resources
920
265
Establishment of roadless and wild areas on Indian reservations
925

# SUBCHAPTER M—INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION ASSISTANCE ACT PROGRAM
273
Education contracts under Johnson-O'Malley Act
926
275
Staffing
945
276
Uniform administrative requirements for grants
946

# SUBCHAPTER N—ECONOMIC ENTERPRISES
286
Indian Business Development Program
970
290
Tribal revenue allocation plans
975
291
Class III gaming procedures
979
292
Gaming on trust lands acquired after October 17, 1988
983
293
Class III tribal-state gaming compacts
991
294-299
[Reserved]
SUBCHAPTER O—MISCELLANEOUS [RESERVED]
Appendix to Chapter I—Extension of the Trust or Restricted Status of Certain Indian Lands
999

# SUBCHAPTER A—PROCEDURES AND PRACTICE
Pt. 1

# PART 1—APPLICABILITY OF RULES OF THE BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS
Sec.
1.1
[Reserved]
1.2
Applicability of regulations and reserved authority of the Secretary of the Interior.
1.3
Scope.
1.4
State and local regulation of the use of Indian property.
1.10
Availability of forms.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; R.S. 463, 25 U.S.C. 2.
§ 1.1
[Reserved]
§ 1.2
Applicability of regulations and reserved authority of the Secretary of the Interior.
The regulations in chapter I of title 25 of the Code of Federal Regulations are of general application. Notwithstanding any limitations contained in the regulations of this chapter, the Secretary retains the power to waive or make exceptions to his regulations as found in chapter I of title 25 CFR in all cases where permitted by law and the Secretary finds that such waiver or exception is in the best interest of the Indians.
[25 FR 3124, Apr. 12, 1960]
§ 1.3
Scope.
Chapters I and II of this title contain the bulk of the regulations of the Department of the Interior of general application relating to Indian affairs. Subtitle B, chapter I, title 43 of the Code or Federal Regulations contains rules relating to the relationship of Indians to public lands and townsites. Subtitle A of title 43 CFR has application to certain aspects of Indian affairs and, among other things, contains procedural rules for appellate and other administrative review and for practice before the Department of the Interior, of which the Bureau of Indian Affairs is a part. Indian health matters are covered in 42 CFR part 36. Title 30 CFR contains regulations on oil and gas and other mining operations, which, under certain circumstances, may be applicable to Indian resources.
[25 FR 3124, Apr. 12, 1960, as amended at 40 FR 20625, May 12, 1975; 48 FR 13414, Mar. 31, 1983]
§ 1.4
State and local regulation of the use of Indian property.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, none of the laws, ordinances, codes, resolutions, rules or other regulations of any State or political subdivision thereof limiting, zoning or otherwise governing, regulating, or controlling the use or development of any real or personal property, including water rights, shall be applicable to any such property leased from or held or used under agreement with and belonging to any Indian or Indian tribe, band, or community that is held in trust by the United States or is subject to a restriction against alienation imposed by the United States.
(b) The Secretary of the Interior or his authorized representative may in specific cases or in specific geographic areas adopt or make applicable to Indian lands all or any part of such laws, ordinances, codes, resolutions, rules or other regulations referred to in paragraph (a) of this section as he shall determine to be in the best interest of the Indian owner or owners in achieving the highest and best use of such property. In determining whether, or to what extent, such laws, ordinances, codes, resolutions, rules or other regulations shall be adopted or made applicable, the Secretary or his authorized representative may consult with the Indian owner or owners and may consider the use of, and restrictions or limitations on the use of, other property in the vicinity, and such other factors as he shall deem appropriate.
[30 FR 7520, June 9, 1965]
§ 1.10
Availability of forms.
Forms upon which applications and related documents may be filed and upon which rights and privileges may be granted may be inspected and procured at the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Washington, DC, and at the office of
any Area Director or Agency Superintendent.
[25 FR 3124, Apr. 12, 1960]
Pt. 2

# PART 2—APPEALS FROM ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, and Scope of this Part
Sec.
2.100
What is the purpose of this part?
2.101
What terms do I need to know?
2.102
What may I appeal under this part?
2.103
Are all appeals subject to this part?
2.104
How will I know what decisions are appealable under this part?
2.105
Who will receive notice of decisions that are appealable under this part?
2.106
How does this part comply with the Paperwork Reduction Act?

# Subpart B—Appealing Administrative Decisions
2.200
Who may appeal a decision?
2.201
Do I need a lawyer in order to file a document in an appeal?
2.202
Who decides administrative appeals?
2.203
How long do I have to file an appeal?
2.204
Will the reviewing official grant a request for an extension of time to file a Notice of Appeal?
2.205
How do I file a Notice of Appeal?
2.206
What must I include in my Notice of Appeal?
2.207
Do I have to send the Notice of Appeal to anyone other than the reviewing official?
2.208
What must I file in addition to the Notice of Appeal?
2.209
Who may file a response to the statement of reasons?
2.210
How long does the decision-maker or an interested party have to file a response?
2.211
What must a response to the statement of reasons include?
2.212
Will the reviewing official accept additional briefings?
2.213
What role does the decision-maker have in the appeal process?
2.214
What requirements apply to my submission of documents?

# Subpart C—Effectiveness and Finality of Decisions
2.300
When is a decision effective?
2.301
When is a decision a final agency action?

# Subpart D—Appeal Bonds
2.400
When may the reviewing official require an appeal bond?
2.401
How will the reviewing official determine whether to require an appeal bond?
2.402
What form of appeal bond will the reviewing official accept?
2.403
May I appeal the decision whether to require an appeal bond?
2.404
What will happen to my appeal if I fail to post a required appeal bond?
2.405
How will the reviewing official notify interested parties of the decision on a request for an appeals bond?

# Subpart E—Deciding Appeals
2.500
May an appeal be consolidated with other appeals?
2.501
May an appealed decision be partially implemented?
2.502
May I withdraw my appeal once it has been filed?
2.503
May an appeal be dismissed without a decision on the merits?
2.504
What information will the reviewing official consider?
2.505
When will the reviewing official issue a decision on an appeal?
2.506
How does the reviewing official notify the appellant and other interested parties of a decision?
2.507
How do I appeal a reviewing official's decision?
2.508
May the AS-IA take jurisdiction over an appeal to the IBIA?
2.509
May I ask the AS-IA to take jurisdiction over my appeal?
2.510
How will the AS-IA handle my appeal?
2.511
May the Secretary decide an appeal?
2.512
May the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals take jurisdiction over a matter?

# Subpart F—Appealing Inaction of an Agency Official
2.600
May I compel an agency official to take action?
2.601
When must a decision-maker respond to a request to act?
2.602
What may I do if the decision-maker fails to respond?
2.603
How do I submit an appeal of inaction?
2.604
What will the next official in the decision-maker's chain of command do in response to my appeal?
2.605
May I appeal continued inaction by the decision-maker or the next official in the decision-maker's chain of command?
2.606
May I appeal inaction by a reviewing official on an appeal from a decision?
2.607
What happens if no official responds to my requests under this subpart?

# Subpart G—Special Rules Regarding Recognition of Tribal Representatives
2.700
What is the purpose of this subpart?
2.701
May a Local Bureau Official's decision to recognize, or decline to recognize, a Tribal representative be appealed?
2.702
How will I know what decisions are appealable under this subpart?
2.703
How do I file a Notice of Appeal of a Tribal representative recognition decision?
2.704
How long do I have to file an appeal of a Tribal representative recognition decision?
2.705
Is there anything else I must file?
2.706
When must I file my statement of reasons?
2.707
May the LBO and interested parties file a response to the statement of reasons?
2.708
How long do interested parties have to file a response?
2.709
What will the LBO do in response to my appeal?
2.710
When will the reviewing official decide a Tribal representative recognition appeal?
2.711
May the decision deadline be extended?
2.712
May the AS-IA take jurisdiction over the appeal?
2.713
May I ask the AS-IA to take jurisdiction over the appeal?
2.714
May the reviewing official's decision on Tribal representative recognition be appealed?

# Subpart H—Appeals of Bureau of Trust Funds Administration Statements of Performance
2.800
What is the purpose of this subpart?
2.801
What terms do I need to know for this subpart?
2.802
What must I do if I want to challenge the accuracy of activity within a Statement of Performance?
2.803
Is every account holder allowed to challenge the accuracy of activity within a Statement of Performance?
2.804
May I challenge the underlying action that generated the proceeds deposited into my account under this subpart?
2.805
May I challenge anything other than the activity in the account under this subpart?
2.806
What must my Objection to the Statement of Performance contain?
2.807
What must my Basis of Objection contain?
2.808
To whom must I submit my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
2.809
When must I submit my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
2.810
Will the decision-maker acknowledge receipt of my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
2.811
May I request an extension of time to submit my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
2.812
May I appeal the denial of my request for an extension of time?
2.813
If I fail to submit either an Objection to the Statement of Performance or the Basis of Objection within the applicable deadlines, what is the consequence?
2.814
How long will the decision-maker have to issue a Decision on my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
2.815
What information will the Decision on my Objection to the Statement of Performance contain?
2.816
May I appeal the Decision on my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
2.817
What must my Appeal of the Decision on the Objection to the Statement of Performance contain?
2.818
To whom must I submit my Appeal of a Decision on my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
2.819
When must my Appeal be filed?
2.820
May I submit any other documents in support of my Appeal?
2.821
May I request an extension of time to submit my Appeal?
2.822
What happens if I do not submit my Appeal within the 30-day deadline?
2.823
When will the reviewing official issue the BTFA's ruling?
2.824
May I appeal the BTFA's ruling?
2.825
When does the Statement of Performance or a Decision become final?

# Subpart I—Alternative Dispute Resolution
2.900
Is there a procedure other than a formal appeal for resolving disputes?
2.901
How do I request alternative dispute resolution?
2.902
When do I initiate alternative dispute resolution?
2.903
What will Indian Affairs do if I request alternative dispute resolution?

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1457; 25 U.S.C. 9; 5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
88 FR 53779, Aug. 9, 2023, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, and Scope of this Part
§ 2.100
What is the purpose of this part?
If you are adversely affected by certain decisions of a Bureau of Indian Affairs (Bureau) official, you can challenge (appeal) that decision to a higher authority within the Department of the Interior (Department) by following the procedures in this part. Except as otherwise provided in this part or in other applicable laws and regulations,
you must exhaust the appeal mechanisms available under this part before you can seek review in a Federal district court under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 704).
§ 2.101
What terms do I need to know?
Administrative record
means all documents and materials that were considered directly or indirectly, or were presented for consideration, in the course of making the decision that is the subject of the appeal.
Adversely affected
means the decision on appeal has caused or is likely to cause injury to a legally protected interest.
Agency
means the Department of the Interior, inclusive of all its offices and bureaus.
Appeal
means:
(1) A written request for administrative review of a decision-maker's decision or inaction that is claimed to adversely affect the interested party making the request; or
(2) The process you must follow when you seek administrative review of a decision-maker's decision or inaction.
Appellant
means the person or entity who files an appeal.
AS-IA
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior. AS-IA also means the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or other official delegated the authority of the AS-IA when the office of the AS-IA is vacant, when the AS-IA is unable to perform the functions of the office, or when the AS-IA is recused from the matter.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
BIE
means the Bureau of Indian Education.
BTFA
means the Bureau of Trust Funds Administration.
Days
mean calendar days, unless otherwise provided. Days during which the agency is closed because of a lapse in appropriations do not count as days for purposes of calculating deadlines for actions by Federal officials under this part.
Decision
means an agency action that permits, approves, or grants permission, requires compliance, or grants or denies requested relief.
Decision-maker
means the Indian Affairs official whose decision or inaction is being appealed.
Effective
means that the decision will be implemented by the Department.
Final agency action
means a decision that represents the consummation of the agency's decision-making process and is subject to judicial review under 5 U.S.C. 704. Final agency actions are immediately effective unless the decision provides otherwise.
IBIA
means the Interior Board of Indian Appeals within the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
IED
means the Office of Indian Economic Development.
Indian Affairs
means all offices and personnel subject to the authority of the AS-IA.
Interested party
means a person or entity whose legally protected interests are adversely affected by the decision on appeal or may be adversely affected by the decision of the reviewing official.
Local Bureau Official (“LBO”)
means the Superintendent, Field Representative, or other BIA official who serves as the primary point of contact between BIA and a Tribe or individual Indian.
Notice of Appeal (“NOA”)
means a written document that an appellant files with the reviewing official and serves on the decision-maker and interested parties.
OIG
means the Office of Indian Gaming.
OJS
means the Office of Justice Services.
OSG
means the Office of Self Governance.
Participant
means the appellant, any interested party who files a response as provided for in § 2.209, and any Tribe that is an interested party.
Person
means an individual human being or other entity.
Reviewing official
means an Indian Affairs official who is authorized to review and issue decisions on appeals filed under this part, and the IBIA, unless otherwise provided in this part.
Trust Asset
means trust lands, natural resources, trust funds, or other assets held by the Federal Government in trust for Indian Tribes and individual Indians.
We, us,
and
our,
mean the officers and employees of Indian Affairs.
You
(in the text of each section) and
I
(in the section headings) mean an interested party who is considering, pursuing, or participating in an administrative appeal as provided for in this part.
§ 2.102
What may I appeal under this part?
(a) Subject to the exceptions in this part and other applicable law or regulation, you may appeal:
(1) Any discrete, written decision made by a decision-maker that adversely affects you, including a determination by the decision-maker that she or he lacks either the duty or authority to take the action that you have requested; and
(2) Inaction by Indian Affairs officials by following the procedures in subpart F of this part.
(b) You may not appeal in the following circumstances.
(1) You may not separately appeal the issuance of component documents of the administrative record, including, but not limited to, appraisals or market studies, reports, studies, investigations, notices of impoundment or public sale, recommendations, or National Environmental Policy Act documents. The adequacy of these types of documents cannot be challenged unless and until an appealable decision is made in reliance upon these documents.
(2) You may not appeal an agency's notification to you that it is pursuing or is considering pursuing action against you in Federal district court, unless separate regulations in this title require you to follow administrative appeal procedures in accordance with this part or other regulations such as those listed in § 2.103 to appeal the notification. Such notifications include, but are not limited to, notices that could lead the agency to pursue actions for money damages against you, such as actions for trespass, ejectment, eviction, nuisance, conversion, or waste to Indian land under the Federal common law or statute.
(3) You may not appeal final agency actions (though you may be able to seek review in Federal district court).
(c) Any challenge to preliminary, procedural, or intermediate actions by a reviewing official must be submitted to the reviewing official prior to that official's issuing the decision. The reviewing official will address such challenges in the final decision. Such a challenge is not a separate appeal.
§ 2.103
Are all appeals subject to this part?
Not all appeals are subject to this part. Decisions by some Indian Affairs officials may be appealed to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals, subject to the regulations at 43 CFR part 4. Other regulations govern appeals of administrative decisions regarding certain topics. Table 1 to this section lists some decision topics that are subject to different appeals regulations, in whole or in part, and where to find those regulations.
Table 1 to § 2.103
For appeal rights related to . . .
Refer to . . .
Access to student records
25 CFR part 43.
Acknowledgment as a federally recognized Indian Tribe
25 CFR part 83.
Adverse employment decisions against Bureau of Indian Affairs employees
43 CFR part 20.
Any decision by a Court of Indian Offenses
25 CFR part 11.
Appointment or termination of contract educators
25 CFR part 38.
Debts owed by Federal employees
5 CFR part 550.
Determination of heirs, approval of wills, and probate proceedings
43 CFR part 4; 43 CFR part 30; 25 CFR part 16; 25 CFR part 17.
Indian School Equalization Program student count
25 CFR part 39.
Eligibility determinations for adult care assistance, burial assistance, child assistance, disaster, emergency and general assistance, and the Tribal work experience program
25 CFR part 20.
Certain adverse enrollment decisions
25 CFR part 62.
Freedom of Information Act requests
43 CFR part 2.
Grazing permits for trust or restricted lands
25 CFR part 166.
Indian Reservation Roads Program funding
25 CFR part 170.
Leasing of trust or restricted lands
25 CFR part 162.
Matters subject to the Contract Disputes Act
48 CFR part 33; 48 CFR part 6101.
Privacy Act requests
43 CFR part 2.
Restricting an Individual Indian Money account
25 CFR part 115.
Rights-of-way over or across trust or restricted lands
25 CFR part 169.
Secretarial elections
25 CFR part 81.
Self-Determination contracts
25 CFR part 900.
Self-Governance compacts
25 CFR part 1000.
Student rights and due process
25 CFR part 42.
Tribally controlled colleges and universities
25 CFR part 41.
Departmental quarters
41 CFR part 114.
§ 2.104
How will I know what decisions are appealable under this part?
(a) When an Indian Affairs official makes a decision that is subject to an appeal under this part, she or he will transmit the decision to interested parties by U.S. Mail or, upon request, by electronic mail. Unless the decision is immediately effective, and except for decisions that are subject to appeal to IBIA, the official will include the following notice of appeal rights at the end of the decision document:
This decision may be appealed by any person or entity who is adversely affected by the decision. Appeals must be submitted to the—[appropriate reviewing official]—at—[address, including email address]. The appeals process begins when you file with the reviewing official a notice of appeal, complying with the provisions of 25 CFR 2.205-2.207.
Deadline for Appeal.
Your notice of appeal must be submitted in accordance with the provisions of 25 CFR 2.214 within 30 days of the date you receive notice of this decision pursuant to 25 CFR 2.203. If you do not file a timely appeal, you will have failed to exhaust administrative remedies as required by 25 CFR part 2. If no appeal is timely filed, this decision will become effective at the expiration of the appeal period. No extension of time may be granted for filing a notice of appeal.
Appeal Contents and Packaging.
Your notice of appeal must comply with the requirements in 25 CFR 2.214. It must clearly identify the decision being appealed. If possible, attach a copy of this decision letter. The notice and the envelope in which it is mailed should be clearly labeled, “Notice of Appeal.” If electronic filing is available, “Notice of Appeal” must appear in the subject line of the email submission. Your notice of appeal must list the names and addresses of the interested parties known to you and certify that you have sent them and this office copies of the notice by any of the mechanisms permitted for transmitting the NOA to the BIA.
Where to Send Copies of Your Appeal.
[For appeals to IA officials, not IBIA]:
In addition to sending your appeal to—[the reviewing official],—you must send a copy of your appeal to this office at the address on the letterhead—[if an email address is included in the letterhead, you may submit your appeals documents via email, with “Notice of Appeal” in the subject line of the email submission].
[For appeals to the IBIA]:
If the reviewing official is the IBIA, you must also send a copy of your appeal to the AS-IA and to the Associate Solicitor, Division of Indian Affairs. If the reviewing official is the IBIA, your appeal will be governed by the IBIA's regulations, at 43 CFR part 4.
Assistance.
If you can establish that you are an enrolled member of a federally recognized Tribe and you are not represented by an attorney, you may, within 10 days of receipt of this decision, request assistance from this office in the preparation of your appeal. Our assistance is limited to serving your filings on the interested parties and allowing limited access to government records and other documents in the possession of this office. We cannot obtain an attorney for you or act as your attorney on the merits of the appeal.
(b) If a decision-maker issues a decision that does not include notice of appeal rights, the decision-maker will provide written notice of appeal rights and the decision may be appealed as follows:
(1) If the decision-maker discovers within 30 days of issuing the decision that the decision did not include notice of appeal rights, then the decision-maker will provide written notice of appeal rights to interested parties, and inform them that they may appeal the decision within 30 days from the date of receipt of the notice. If no appeal is
filed by the new deadline, the interested parties will have failed to exhaust administrative remedies as required by this part and the decision will become effective.
(2) If the decision-maker does not discover within 30 days of issuing the decision that the decision did not include notice of appeal rights and no administrative appeal is filed within 30 days of the issuance of the decision, then the decision becomes effective 31 days after it was issued.
(3) If the decision-maker discovers, more than 30 days but less than 365 days, after the date of the decision that the decision did not include notice of appeal rights, then the decision-maker will immediately notify the interested parties that the decision was issued without the requisite notice of appeal rights. If the decision has not actually been implemented, the decision-maker shall stay the implementation of the decision and reissue the decision with the appeal rights notice as provided in this section. If the decision has been implemented, the decision maker shall notify the interested parties of that fact, and notify them that they may file a challenge to the decision in Federal court, or pursue the administrative appeal process set out in this section.
§ 2.105
Who will receive notice of decisions that are appealable under this part?
Except as provided in other regulations governing specific types of decisions (see § 2.103), the decision-maker will transmit a copy of all appealable decisions to all known interested parties at the addresses the decision-maker has on file for them.
§ 2.106
How does this part comply with the Paperwork Reduction Act?
The information collected from the public under this part is cleared and covered by Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control Number 1076-NEW. Please note that a Federal Agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Appealing Administrative Decisions
§ 2.200
Who may appeal a decision?
You have a right to appeal a decision made by an Indian Affairs official if you can show, through credible statements, that you are adversely affected by the decision.
§ 2.201
Do I need a lawyer in order to file a document in an appeal?
No. You may represent yourself. If you are represented by someone else, your representative must meet the standards established in 43 CFR part 1 and must provide documentation of his or her authority to act on your behalf.
§ 2.202
Who decides administrative appeals?
Except where a specific section of this part sets out a different appellate hierarchy, table 1 to this section identifies the reviewing officials for appeals under this part:
Table 1 to § 2.202
Official issuing the decision
Reviewing official or IBIA
Agency Superintendent or Field Representative, BIA
Regional Director, BIA.
Regional Director, BIA
IBIA.
District Commander, OLES
Deputy Director BIA, Office of Justice Services (OJS).
Deputy Director, BIA
Director, BIA.
Director, BIA
IBIA.
Principal of a Bureau operated School
Education Program Administrator.
Education Program Administrator
Associate Deputy Director, BIE.
Associate Deputy Director, BIE
Director, BIE.
President of a Bureau operated Post-Secondary School
Director, BIE.
Director, BIE
AS-IA.
BTFA decision-maker
Director, BTFA.
Director of: OIG; IED; OSG
Appropriate Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs.
Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs; Director, BTFA
AS-IA.
§ 2.203
How long do I have to file an appeal?
(a) You have 30 days after you receive a copy of the decision you are appealing to file a Notice of Appeal, except as provided in § 2.104(b).
(b) We will presume that you have received notice of the decision 10 days after the date that the decision was mailed to you, if the decision-maker mailed the document to the last address the decision-maker has on file for you.
(c) If the reviewing official receives proof that the document was delivered before the expiration of the 10-day period, you are presumed to have received notice on the date of delivery, and you have 30 days from that date to file an appeal.
§ 2.204
Will the reviewing official grant a request for an extension of time to file a Notice of Appeal?
No. No extensions of time to file a Notice of Appeal will be granted.
§ 2.205
How do I file a Notice of Appeal?
(a) To file a Notice of Appeal to an Indian Affairs official, you must submit the Notice of Appeal to the reviewing official identified in the decision document's notice of appeal rights, as prescribed in § 2.104. Your submission must comply with § 2.214.
(b) If you are appealing to the IBIA, you must comply with IBIA's regulations, set out at 43 CFR part 4.
§ 2.206
What must I include in my Notice of Appeal?
In addition to meeting the requirements of § 2.214, your Notice of Appeal must include an explanation of how you satisfy the requirements of standing set out in § 2.200 and a copy of the decision being appealed, if possible.
§ 2.207
Do I have to send the Notice of Appeal to anyone other than the reviewing official?
(a) Yes. You must provide copies of your Notice of Appeal to the decision-maker and all interested parties known to you. If you are an individual Indian and are not represented by an attorney, you may request that we make the copies for you and mail your appeal documents to all interested parties.
(b) If you are appealing to the IBIA, you must also send a copy of your Notice of Appeal to the AS-IA and to the Associate Solicitor for Indian Affairs at the same time you send the appeal to the IBIA.
§ 2.208
What must I file in addition to the Notice of Appeal?
No later than 10 days after filing your Notice of Appeal, you must submit to the reviewing official, the decision-maker, and interested parties a statement of reasons that:
(a) Explains why you believe the decision was wrong;
(b) Identifies relevant information or evidence you believe the decision-maker failed to consider;
(c) Describes the relief you seek;
(d) Provides all documentation you believe supports your arguments; and
(e) Complies with the requirements of § 2.214.
§ 2.209
Who may file a response to the statement of reasons?
Any interested party may file a response to the statement of reasons, thereby becoming a participant. The decision-maker may also file a response to the statement of reasons.
§ 2.210
How long does the decision-maker or an interested party have to file a response?
The decision-maker or an interested party has 30 days after receiving a copy of the statement of reasons to file a response.
§ 2.211
What must a response to the statement of reasons include?
(a) A response to a statement of reasons must comply with § 2.214. In addition, the response must:
(1) State when the interested party or decision-maker submitting the response received the statement of reasons;
(2) Explain how the interested party submitting the response is adversely affected by the decision being appealed or may be adversely affected by the reviewing official's decision; and
(3) Explain why the interested party or decision maker submitting the response believes the arguments made in the appellant's Notice of Appeal and statement of reasons are right or wrong.
(b) The response may also include statements and documents supporting the position of the interested party or decision-maker submitting.
§ 2.212
Will the reviewing official accept additional briefings?
(a) Yes. The appellant may file a reply with the reviewing official within 21 days of receiving a copy of any response brief.
(b) Any interested party may, within 10 days after receiving the table of contents of the administrative record (AR), request copies of some or all of the AR. Such party may submit a supplemental brief within 10 days after receiving the requested documents.
(c) Any interested party may ask the reviewing official for permission to file additional briefing. The reviewing official's decision on whether to grant the request is not appealable.
(d) No documents other than those specified in this part and those permitted by the reviewing official under paragraph (c) of this section may be filed.
(e) The reviewing official will not consider documents not timely filed.
§ 2.213
What role does the decision-maker have in the appeal process?
(a) The decision-maker is responsible for:
(1) Compiling the administrative record;
(2) Sending the administrative record to the reviewing official within 20 days of the decision-maker's receipt of the Notice of Appeal; and
(3) Making available a copy of the administrative record for review by interested parties. When the decision-maker transmits the administrative record to the reviewing official, the decision-maker shall transmit to the interested parties a copy of the table of contents of the administrative record. Interested parties may view the administrative record at the office of the decision-maker. Interested parties may request copies of all or part of the administrative record. Where reproduction and transmission of the administrative record imposes costs on BIA exceeding $50, BIA may charge the requestor for those costs. BIA shall not incur such costs without the requestor's approval. The decision-maker shall respond to requests for documents in the administrative record within 30 days of receipt of the request, either by providing the requested documents or identifying a date by which the documents shall be provided. The decision-maker shall redact the documents provided to the requestor as required by law (
e.g.,
the Privacy Act). The decision-maker may withhold information in the administrative record, invoking privileges available in civil litigation; such withholding being subject to judicial review. Provision of documents in the administrative record to an interested party under this part is not governed by the Freedom of Information Act. Failure of a decision-maker to respond to a request for documents under this section may be appealed as provided in subpart F of this part.
(b) If a decision-maker believes that a compacting or contracting Tribe possesses Federal records that are relevant to the analysis of the appeal, the decision-maker may request that the Tribe produce the documents. Within two weeks of receiving the decision-maker's request, the Tribe shall either provide the requested documents to the decision-maker or explain why it is not providing the documents. This section does not apply to Tribal records. See 25 U.S.C. 5329(b).
(c) The decision-maker may file a response to the statement of reasons.
§ 2.214
What requirements apply to my submission of documents?
Except where a section in this part (or 43 CFR part 4 with respect to submissions to the IBIA) sets out other requirements, you must comply with the following provisions:
(a)
Information required in every submission.
(1) The submitter's contact information, consisting of name, mailing address, telephone number, and email address if any; or the name, mailing address, telephone number, and email address of the submitter's representative;
(2) A certificate of service by the submitter that the submission was served on all interested parties known to the submitter, a list of parties served, and the date and method of service; and
(3) The signature of the interested party or his or her representative.
(b)
Filing documents.
A document is properly filed with an agency official by:
(1) Personal delivery, either hand delivery by an interested party or via private mail carrier, during regular business hours to the person designated to receive mail in the immediate office of the official;
(2) United States mail to the facility officially designated for receipt of mail addressed to the official. The document is considered filed by mail on the date that it is postmarked; and
(3) Electronic mail (email) is permissible only in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (i) of this section.
(c)
Service generally.
A copy of each document filed in a proceeding under this part must be served by the filing party on the relevant agency official(s) and all other known interested parties. If an interested party is represented by an attorney, service of any document shall be made upon such attorney. Where an interested party is represented by more than one attorney, service upon one of the attorneys shall be sufficient.
(d)
Record address.
Every person who files a document in an appeal shall, at the time of the initial filing in the matter, provide his or her contact information. Such person must promptly inform the decision-maker or reviewing official of any change in address. Any successors in interest of such person shall promptly inform the decision-maker or reviewing official of his or her interest in the matter and provide contact information. Agency officials and other parties to an appeal shall have fulfilled their service requirement by transmitting documents to a party's last known address.
(e)
Computation of time for filing and service.
Documents must be filed within the deadlines established in this part (or by 43 CFR part 4 for filings submitted to the IBIA), or as established by Department officials in a particular matter. Except as otherwise provided by law, in computing any period of time prescribed for filing and serving a document, the day upon which the decision or document to be appealed from or answered was served, or the day of any other event after which the designated period of time begins to run, is not included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, Federal legal holiday, or other day on which the office to which the document is addressed is not conducting business, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day on which the office to which the document is addressed is conducting business. When the time prescribed or allowed is 7 days or less, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, Federal legal holidays, and other nonbusiness days shall be excluded in the computation.
(f)
Extensions of time.
(1) The deadline for filing and serving any document may be extended by the agency official before whom the proceeding is pending, except that the deadline for filing a Notice of Appeal may not be extended.
(2) A request for an extension of time must be filed within the time allowed for the filing or serving of the document.
(3) A request for extension of time must be filed with the same office as the document that is the subject of the request.
(g)
Formatting.
All submissions, except exhibits, must be typed in 12-point font, (double-spaced) using a standard 8
1/2
- by 11-inch word processing format, except that a document submitted by an interested party who is not represented by an attorney may be hand-written. An agency official may decline to consider an illegible hand-written submission. An agency official who declines to consider a hand-written submission shall promptly notify the submitter of the decision not to consider the submission.
(h)
Page limits for particular filings are set out in the sections addressing those filings.
Attachments and exhibits not drafted by or for the submitter do not count toward the page limit.
(i)
Submitting and serving documents by email.
Submitting documents by email to an agency official is only permitted when the receiving official has notified
the known interested parties that email submissions are acceptable. Documents may only be served via email on interested parties who have stated, in writing, their willingness to accept service by email. No single email submission may exceed 10 megabytes (MB). Submissions may be divided into separate emails for purposes of complying with this requirement. Filings submitted by email shall be in PDF format. Email submissions that arrive at the agency official's office after 5:00 p.m. shall be deemed to have arrived on the next work day.
(j)
Non-compliant submissions.
An agency official may decline to consider a submission that does not comply with the requirements in this section, or take other action she/he deems appropriate. A non-compliant submission is nonetheless a Federal record, and must be preserved as other Federal records.

# Subpart C—Effectiveness and Finality of Decisions
§ 2.300
When is a decision effective?
(a) Agency decisions that are subject to further administrative appeal become effective when the appeal period expires without an appeal being filed, except as provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(b) When an agency decision is effective pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section or § 2.714, the administrative appeal will proceed unless an interested party challenges the agency decision in Federal court.
(c) Agency decisions that are subject to further administrative appeal and for which an appeal is timely filed may be made immediately effective by the reviewing official based on public safety, Indian education safety, protection of trust resources, or other public exigency.
(1) A decision-maker whose decision has been appealed may ask the reviewing official to make the appealed decision immediately effective or the reviewing official may make the appealed decision immediately effective on his or her own initiative.
(2) A reviewing official's decision to make an appealed decision immediately effective must explain why public safety, Indian education safety, protection of trust resources, or other public exigency justifies making the decision immediately effective. Any challenge to the decision to put an appealed decision into immediate effect shall be incorporated into the ongoing appeal.
(3) A decision by a reviewing official (other than the IBIA) to place an appealed decision into immediate effect must be in writing and include the following notice of appeal rights:
As explained above, based on concerns about public safety, Indian education safety, protection of trust resources, or other exigency, I have placed the challenged decision into immediate effect, as authorized by 25 CFR 2.300. I will continue with my review of the matter on appeal unless and until an interested party files suit in federal court challenging the agency decision.
§ 2.301
When is a decision a final agency action?
An agency decision that is not subject to administrative appeal is a final agency action and immediately effective when issued unless the decision provides otherwise.

# Subpart D—Appeal Bonds
§ 2.400
When may the reviewing official require an appeal bond?
(a) Any interested party who may suffer a financial loss or damage to Indian Trust Assets as a result of an appeal may ask the reviewing official to require the appellant to post an appeal bond.
(b) The reviewing official may decide on his or her own initiative to require an appeal bond in accordance with this subpart.
§ 2.401
How will the reviewing official determine whether to require an appeal bond?
The reviewing official may require an appeal bond if the party requesting the appeal bond can demonstrate that the delay caused by the appeal may result in a measurable and substantial financial loss or damage to Indian Trust Assets. The amount of the appeal bond will be commensurate with the estimated financial loss or damage to Indian Trust Assets.
§ 2.402
What form of appeal bond will the reviewing official accept?
The reviewing official will only accept an appeal bond that has a market value at least equal to the total bond amount in one, or a combination of, the following forms.
(a) Negotiable U.S. Treasury securities, accompanied by a statement granting the AS-IA full authority to sell the securities and direct the proceeds to the party who was harmed by the appellant's unsuccessful appeal.
(b) Certificates of deposit that indicate on their face that AS-IA approval is required prior to redemption by any party.
(c) An irrevocable letter of credit issued by a federally insured financial institution and made payable to the Office of the AS-IA. The letter of credit must have an initial expiration date of not less than two years from the date of issuance and be automatically renewable for at least one year.
(d) A surety bond issued by a company approved by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
§ 2.403
May I appeal the decision whether to require an appeal bond?
No. The reviewing official's decision whether to require an appeal bond is not appealable.
§ 2.404
What will happen to my appeal if I fail to post a required appeal bond?
If you are required to post a bond and fail to do so within the time allowed by the reviewing official to post the bond, the reviewing official will dismiss your appeal.
§ 2.405
How will the reviewing official notify interested parties of the decision on a request for an appeals bond?
When the reviewing official decides whether to require an appeal bond, she or he will provide the interested parties with written notice of the decision

# Subpart E—Deciding Appeals
§ 2.500
May an appeal be consolidated with other appeals?
Yes. The reviewing official may, either on his or her own initiative or upon request by the decision-maker or interested party, consolidate identical or similar appeals filed by you and others or consolidate multiple appeals that you file that also contain identical or similar issues.
§ 2.501
May an appealed decision be partially implemented?
Yes. The reviewing official may identify any parts of a decision-maker's decision that have not been appealed, to allow the decision-maker to implement those parts of the decision. The reviewing official will notify interested parties of a determination to implement unchallenged components of the decision-maker's decision. An interested party who disagrees with the reviewing official's determination may seek reconsideration by the reviewing official. A request for reconsideration must be filed within 15 days of issuance of the determination.
§ 2.502
May I withdraw my appeal once it has been filed?
Yes. You may withdraw your appeal at any time before the reviewing official issues a decision. To withdraw an appeal, you must write to the reviewing official and all participants stating that you want to withdraw your appeal. If you withdraw your appeal, it will be dismissed by the reviewing official. While the dismissal of a withdrawn appeal is without prejudice, the appeals time frame set out in this part will be unaffected by a withdrawn appeal. Therefore, any refiling of a withdrawn appeal must be within the original filing deadline established pursuant to § 2.104.
§ 2.503
May an appeal be dismissed without a decision on the merits?
Yes, the reviewing official may dismiss an appeal without a decision on the merits when:
(a) You are late in filing your appeal;
(b) You lack standing because you do not meet the requirements of § 2.200 for bringing an appeal;
(c) You have withdrawn the appeal;
(d) You have failed to pay a required appeal bond;
(e) The reviewing official lacks the authority to grant the requested relief;
(f) If you are represented and your representative does not meet the standards established in 43 CFR part 1 related to eligibility to practice before the Department, and you have failed to substitute yourself or an eligible representative after being given an opportunity to do so; or
(g) The reviewing official determines there are other circumstances that warrant a dismissal and explains those circumstances in the dismissal order.
§ 2.504
What information will the reviewing official consider?
(a) The reviewing official will consider:
(1) The administrative record for the decision, prepared by the decision-maker under § 2.213;
(2) All relevant documents submitted by the decision-maker and participants that were filed in accordance with applicable deadlines; and
(3) Laws, regulations, Secretarial Orders, Solicitor's Opinions, policies, implementing guidance, and prior judicial and administrative decisions that are relevant to the appeal.
(b) If the reviewing official considers documentation that was not included in the administrative record, the reviewing official will:
(1) Provide a copy of that documentation to the decision-maker and interested parties; and
(2) Establish a schedule for the decision-maker and interested parties to review and comment on the documentation.
§ 2.505
When will the reviewing official issue a decision on an appeal?
(a) The reviewing official (other than the IBIA) will issue a written decision, including the basis for the decision, within 90 days after the latest of:
(1) The filing of the statement of reasons;
(2) The filing of any responses, replies, or supplemental briefs under §§ 2.209 through 2.212; or
(3) The filing of any comments on additional material under § 2.504(b).
(b) A reviewing official (other than the IBIA) may, for good cause and with notice to the decision-maker and participants, extend the deadline for the official's decision one time by no more than 90 days.
§ 2.506
How does the reviewing official notify the appellant and other interested parties of a decision?
The reviewing official will send the decision to the decision-maker and interested parties.
§ 2.507
How do I appeal a reviewing official's decision?
(a) To appeal a reviewing official's decision that is not a final agency action, you must file your appeal in accordance with the instructions for appeal contained in the decision.
(b) The decision will include instructions that briefly describe how to appeal the decision, to whom the appeal should be directed, and the deadline for filing an appeal, and will refer interested parties to the regulations governing the appeal.
(c) If you are appealing to the IBIA, you must comply with IBIA's regulations, set out at 43 CFR part 4.
(d) Except where a specific section of this part sets out a different appellate hierarchy, table 1 to this paragraph (d) indicates the official to whom subsequent appeals should be addressed.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
d
)
Reviewing official (or IBIA) whose decision is being appealed
Official to whom the appeal is addressed
Regional Director
IBIA.
Principal of a Bureau operated school
Education Program Administrator.
Education Program Administrator
Associate Deputy Director, Bureau of Indian Education.
Associate Deputy Director, BIE
Director, BIE.
President of a Bureau operated post-secondary school
Director, BIE.
Deputy Director BIA, Office of Justice Services (OJS)
IBIA.
Director, BIE
AS-IA.
Director, BTFA
AS-IA.
Director, BIA
IBIA.
Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs
AS-IA.
AS-IA
(Decision is final for the Department).
IBIA
(Decision is final for the Department).
§ 2.508
May the AS-IA take jurisdiction over an appeal to the IBIA?
Yes. The AS-IA has 40 days from the date on which the IBIA received your Notice of Appeal to take jurisdiction from the IBIA. The AS-IA will notify the IBIA in writing of the assumption of jurisdiction and request the administrative record of the appeal. At any time in the 40 days, the AS-IA may notify the IBIA that she or he is not going to take jurisdiction over an appeal, at which point the IBIA will assign a docket number to the appeal under its regulations in 43 CFR part 4. If the IBIA does not receive written notice from the AS-IA within the 40-day period of the AS-IA's intent to take jurisdiction over the appeal, the IBIA will assign a docket number to your appeal.
§ 2.509
May I ask the AS-IA to take jurisdiction over my appeal?
No. The AS-IA will not consider a request from any interested party to take jurisdiction over an appeal.
§ 2.510
How will the AS-IA handle my appeal?
If the AS-IA takes jurisdiction over your appeal, or if an appeal is made to the AS-IA in accordance with table 1 to paragraph (d) in § 2.507, the following procedures shall apply:
(a) Within 10 days of receipt of an appeal, or of assumption of jurisdiction over an appeal to the IBIA, the AS-IA shall transmit to the official who issued the decision being appealed and all known interested parties a notice that will include information on when and how to file briefs, access to the administrative record, and may include instructions for filing briefs via email.
(b) Briefs shall comply with § 2.214, and be submitted as follows, unless the AS-IA specifies otherwise:
(1) Initial briefs are invited from the appellant, all interested parties, and the official whose decision is on appeal. Initial briefs may not exceed 30 pages and shall be due within 21 days of the date of the AS-IA's notice. Initial briefs must include certification of service on the reviewing official and all other interested parties identified in the AS-IA's initial notice to interested parties;
(2) Answering briefs shall be due within 35 days of the date of the AS-IA's notice. Answering briefs shall not exceed 15 pages; and
(3) For good cause shown, the AS-IA may extend deadlines, may allow handwritten briefs, may provide for different page limits, and may permit submission of reply briefs.
(c) The AS-IA shall render a decision on the appeal within 60 days of the end of briefing. The AS-IA may, for good cause and with notice to the participants, extend the deadline for issuing a decision by no more than 60 days.
(d) The AS-IA may summarily affirm the decision of the official whose decision is on appeal based on the record before the official whose decision is on appeal.
(e) The AS-IA may delegate to the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs the authority and responsibility for rendering a final agency decision on an appeal over which the AS-IA is exercising jurisdiction.
§ 2.511
May the Secretary decide an appeal?
Yes. Nothing in this part will be construed as affecting the Secretary's authority to take jurisdiction over an appeal as set out in 43 CFR 4.5(a).
§ 2.512
May the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals take jurisdiction over a matter?
Yes. Nothing in this part will be construed as affecting the authority vested in the Director of the Office of Hearings and Appeals to take jurisdiction over matters in front of the IBIA, as provided in 43 CFR 4.5(b).

# Subpart F—Appealing Inaction of an Agency Official
§ 2.600
May I compel an agency official to take action?
(a) Yes. If a decision-maker fails to take action on a written request for action that you believe the decision-maker is required to take, you may make the decision-maker's inaction the subject of appeal.
(b) Before filing an appeal with the next official in the decision-maker's chain of command, you must:
(1) Send a written request to the decision-maker, asking that he or she take the action originally asked of him or her;
(2) Identify the statute, regulation, or other source of law that you believe requires the decision-maker to take the action being requested;
(3) Describe the interest adversely affected by the decision-maker's inaction, including a description of the loss, impairment or impediment of such interest caused by the inaction; and
(4) State that, unless the decision-maker either takes action on the written request within 15 days of receipt of your request, or establishes a date by which a decision will be made, you will appeal the decision-maker's inaction in accordance with this subpart.
(c) You must include a copy of your original request to the decision-maker, or other documentation establishing the date and nature of the original request.
§ 2.601
When must a decision-maker respond to a request to act?
A decision-maker receiving a request as specified in § 2.600 has 15 days from receiving the request to issue a written response. The response may be a decision, a procedural order that will further the decision-making process, or a written notice that a decision will be rendered by a date no later than 60 days from the date of the request.
§ 2.602
What may I do if the decision-maker fails to respond?
If the decision-maker does not respond as provided for in § 2.601, you may appeal the decision-maker's continued inaction to the next official in the decision-maker's chain of command. For purposes of this subpart:
(a) BIA's chain of command is as follows:
(1) Local Bureau Official;
(2) Regional Director (find addresses on the Indian Affairs website, currently at
https://www.bia.gov/regional-offices
);
(3) Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs (1849 C Street NW, MS 4606, Washington, DC 20240); and
(4) Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs (1849 C Street NW, MS 4660, Washington, DC 20240).
(b) BIE's chain of command is as follows:
(1) Principal of Bureau-operated school;
(2) Education Program Administrator;
(3) Associate Deputy Director, BIE;
(4) Director, BIE; and
(5) AS-IA.
(c) The Office of Justice Services' chain of command is as follows:
(1) Deputy Director BIA, Office of Justice Services;
(2) Director, BIA; and
(3) AS-IA
(d) You may appeal inaction by an official within the Office of the AS-IA to the AS-IA.
§ 2.603
How do I submit an appeal of inaction?
You may appeal the inaction of a decision-maker by sending a written “appeal from inaction of an official” to the next official in the decision-maker's chain of command. You must enclose a copy of the original request for decision to which the decision-maker has not responded and a copy of the request for decision that you sent to the decision-maker pursuant to § 2.600. If filing by email is permitted, “Appeal of Inaction” must appear in the subject line of the email submission.
§ 2.604
What will the next official in the decision-maker's chain of command do in response to my appeal?
An official who receives an appeal from the inaction of a decision-maker that complies with the requirements of this subpart will, within 15 days of receiving the appeal, formally direct the decision-maker to respond within 15 days of the decision-maker's receipt of the official direction. The official will send to all interested parties a copy of his or her instructions to the decision-maker.
§ 2.605
May I appeal continued inaction by the decision-maker or the next official in the decision-maker's chain of command?
Yes. If the official fails to timely direct the decision-maker to respond to
the request for decision, or if the decision-maker fails to respond within the time frame identified by the official pursuant to § 2.604, you may appeal the continued inaction by either agency official to the next highest officer in the chain of command above both agency officials. Your appeal must be submitted as provided for in §§ 2.602 and 2.603. The official will respond as provided for in § 2.604.
§ 2.606
May I appeal inaction by a reviewing official on an appeal from a decision?
(a) Yes. If a reviewing official fails to take action on the appeal within the timeframes established in § 2.505, any interested party may appeal the reviewing official's inaction as provided for in this subpart.
(b) Inaction by the IBIA or by the AS-IA is not subject to appeal under this part.
§ 2.607
What happens if no official responds to my requests under this subpart?
If you exhaust all the provisions of this subpart and the Department has still not taken action on your request, the Department's inaction may be subject to judicial review pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 706(1).

# Subpart G—Special Rules Regarding Recognition of Tribal Representative
§ 2.700
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The purpose of this subpart is to expedite administrative review of a Bureau decision to recognize, or to decline to recognize, a Tribal representative. Provisions in subparts A through F of this part also apply, except that, if a provision in this subpart conflicts with a provision in subparts A through F of this part, the provision in this subpart will govern.
§ 2.701
May a Local Bureau Official's decision to recognize, or decline to recognize, a Tribal representative be appealed?
Yes. A written decision by the LBO to recognize or decline to recognize a Tribal representative is appealable.
§ 2.702
How will I know what decisions are appealable under this subpart?
When an LBO issues a Tribal representative recognition decision, the official will include the following notice of appeal rights at the end of the decision document:
YOU HAVE 10 DAYS TO APPEAL THIS DECISION.
This decision may be appealed to the —[appropriate reviewing official. If the LBO is a Regional Director, the reviewing official is the Director of the BIA]—at—[address, including email address if filing by email is permitted].
Deadline for Appeal.
Your notice of appeal must be submitted as provided for in 25 CFR 2.214 within 10 (ten) days of the date you receive notice of this decision. Your notice of appeal must explain how you satisfy the standing requirements in 25 CFR 2.200. If you do not file a timely appeal, you will have failed to exhaust administrative remedies required by these regulations. If no appeal is timely filed, this decision will become effective at the expiration of the appeal period. No extension of time may be granted for filing a notice of appeal.
§ 2.703
How do I file a Notice of Appeal of a Tribal representative recognition decision?
To file a Notice of Appeal, you must submit, as provided in § 2.214, the Notice of Appeal to the reviewing official identified in the decision document's notice of appeal rights, as prescribed in § 2.702.
§ 2.704
How long do I have to file an appeal of a Tribal representative recognition decision?
You have 10 days after you receive the Tribal representative recognition decision to file a Notice of Appeal.
§ 2.705
Is there anything else I must file?
Yes. You must file a statement of reasons setting out your arguments in support of your appeal, and include any supporting documentation you wish to present to the reviewing official. Your statement of reasons must comply with the requirements set out in § 2.214.
§ 2.706
When must I file my statement of reasons?
You must submit your statement of reasons to the reviewing official and
interested parties no later than 10 days after filing your Notice of Appeal.
§ 2.707
May the LBO and interested parties file a response to the statement of reasons?
Yes. Any interested party, as well as the LBO, may file a response to the statement of reasons, thereby becoming a participant.
§ 2.708
How long do interested parties have to file a response?
(a) The LBO and any interested party have 10 days after receiving a copy of the statement of reasons to file a response, which must be served on the appellant, the LBO and other interested parties.
(b) For good cause shown, the reviewing official may allow the appellant to file a reply brief.
§ 2.709
What will the LBO do in response to my appeal?
Upon receipt of your Notice of Appeal, the LBO must transmit, within 15 days, the administrative record to the reviewing official and transmit your Notice of Appeal to the AS-IA.
§ 2.710
When will the reviewing official decide a Tribal representative recognition appeal?
The reviewing official will issue a written decision, including the basis for the decision, within 30 days after the latest of the filing of your statement of reasons or interested parties' response.
§ 2.711
May the decision deadline be extended?
Yes. A reviewing official may, for good cause and with notice to the interested parties and the LBO, extend the deadline for the reviewing official's decision one time, for no more than an additional 30 days.
§ 2.712
May the AS-IA take jurisdiction over the appeal?
Yes. The AS-IA may take jurisdiction over the appeal at any time before the reviewing official issues a final decision.
§ 2.713
May I ask the AS-IA to take jurisdiction over the appeal?
No. The AS-IA will not consider a request from any interested party to take jurisdiction over the appeal.
§ 2.714
May the reviewing official's decision on Tribal representative recognition be appealed?
Yes. The reviewing official's decision is immediately effective, but not final for the Department. Therefore, any participant may appeal the reviewing official's decision as provided for in this part, or pursue judicial review in Federal court. Notwithstanding any other regulation, the reviewing official's Tribal representative recognition decision shall remain in effect and binding on the Department unless and until the reviewing official's decision is reversed by superior agency authority or reversed or stayed by order of a Federal court.

# Subpart H—Appeals of Bureau of Trust Funds Administration Statements of Performance
§ 2.800
What is the purpose of this subpart?
(a) The purpose of this subpart is to allow an account holder to dispute the accuracy of the activity contained within a Statement of Performance.
(b) The appeals process in this subpart is summarized as follows:
(1) Account holders receive a Statement of Performance at least each quarter. In limited circumstances, account holders may only receive a Statement of Performance annually based upon activity.
(2) An account holder may submit an Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Objection”) to the decision-maker.
(3) The decision-maker will render a Decision on the Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Decision”).
(4) An account holder may submit an Appeal of the Decision on the Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Appeal”) to the Director, BTFA.
(5) The Director, BTFA will render the BTFA's ruling on the account holder's appeal.
(6) An account holder may appeal the BTFA's ruling to the AS-IA.
(7) The AS-IA's decision on the account holder's appeal is a final agency action.
§ 2.801
What terms do I need to know for this subpart?
Account holder
means a Tribe or a person who owns the funds in a Tribal or Individual Indian Money (IIM) account that is maintained by the Secretary.
Appeal of the Decision on the Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Appeal”)
means your appeal of the decision-maker's decision.
Basis of Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Basis of Objection”)
means the documentation you submit supporting your Objection to the Statement of Performance.
BTFA
means the Bureau of Trust Funds Administration.
BTFA's Ruling
means the ruling issued by Director, BTFA on your Appeal of the decision-maker's decision.
Decision on the Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Decision”)
means the decision-maker's decision on your Objection to the Statement of Performance.
Decision-maker
means the Director, Office of Trust Analysis and Research within the Bureau of Trust Funds Administration who reviews your Objection to the Statement of Performance.
Objection to the Statement of Performance (“Objection”)
means the document you submit to the decision-maker, alleging errors in your Statement of Performance.
Reviewing official
means the Director, BTFA.
Statement of Performance (SOP)
means the document that is issued to each account holder that identifies:
(1) The source, type, and status of the funds;
(2) The beginning balance;
(3) The gains and losses;
(4) Receipts and disbursements; and
(5) The ending balance.
§ 2.802
What must I do if I want to challenge the accuracy of activity within a Statement of Performance?
If you want to challenge the accuracy of activity within a Statement of Performance, you must submit an Objection to the Statement of Performance within 60 calendar days of the statement date.
§ 2.803
Is every account holder allowed to challenge the accuracy of activity within a Statement of Performance?
Yes. However, if a Tribe has entered into a settlement with the United States and that settlement contains language concerning the challenge of a statement of performance, the language in the settlement agreement will control.
§ 2.804
May I challenge the underlying action that generated the proceeds deposited into my account under this subpart?
No. This subpart is solely for the purpose of challenging the accuracy of the activity within the SOP. If you want to challenge the underlying action that generated the proceeds deposited into your trust account, you must contact the BIA agency responsible for the action.
§ 2.805
May I challenge anything other than the activity in the account under this subpart?
No. The purpose of this subpart is to provide a method for account holders to dispute the activity in the account.
§ 2.806
What must my Objection to the Statement of Performance contain?
Your Objection to the Statement of Performance must be in writing and contain all of the following:
(a) Your name, address, and telephone number;
(b) The statement date of the specific Statement of Performance that you are challenging;
(c) A copy of the Statement of Performance being challenged; and
(d) The Basis of Objection.
§ 2.807
What must my Basis of Objection contain?
Your Basis of Objection must be in writing and contain:
(a) A statement that details all of the errors or omissions that you believe exist in the Statement of Performance, with as much explanatory detail as possible;
(b) A statement describing the corrective action that you believe BTFA should take; and
(c) All information that you believe relates to the error(s) or omission(s) in the specific Statement of Performance.
§ 2.808
To whom must I submit my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
(a) You must submit your Objection to the Statement of Performance to the decision-maker at: U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Trust Funds Administration, Attn: Director, Office of Trust Analysis and Research, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20240.
(b) Your submission must comply with the provisions of § 2.214.
§ 2.809
When must I submit my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
You must submit your Objection to the Statement of Performance within 60 calendar days of the statement date on the Statement of Performance you are challenging.
§ 2.810
Will the decision-maker acknowledge receipt of my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
Yes. The decision-maker will provide an acknowledgement of receipt of your Objection to the Statement of Performance within 10 calendar days of receipt in the form of a letter that will be mailed to the address you provided in your Objection.
§ 2.811
May I request an extension of time to submit my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
Yes. Within 60 calendar days of the statement date on your Statement of Performance, you may request an extension of time, submitted in compliance with the provisions of § 2.214, from the decision-maker to submit your Objection to the Statement of Performance. The decision-maker may grant one 30-day extension of time in which to submit your Objection to the Statement of Performance.
§ 2.812
May I appeal the denial of my request for an extension of time?
No. The denial of an extension of time to submit the Objection to the Statement of Performance is not appealable.
§ 2.813
If I fail to submit either an Objection to the Statement of Performance or the Basis of Objection within the applicable deadlines, what is the consequence?
If you fail to submit either the Objection to the Statement of Performance or the Basis of Objection within the applicable deadlines:
(a) The Statement of Performance at issue will be deemed accurate and complete for all purposes;
(b) You will have waived your right to invoke the remainder of the review and appeals process as to that Statement of Performance; and
(c) You will have failed to exhaust the administrative remedies available within the Department.
§ 2.814
How long will the decision-maker have to issue a Decision on my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
The decision-maker will have 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of your Basis of Objection to the Statement of Performance to issue a Decision on your Objection to the Statement of Performance. If your Basis of Objection is not received when you submit your Objection to the Statement of Performance and an extension of time was not asked for and granted, the decision-maker will dismiss your Objection to the Statement of Performance.
§ 2.815
What information will the Decision on my Objection to the Statement of Performance contain?
The Decision on your Objection to the Statement of Performance will contain an explanation as to whether the decision-maker agrees or disagrees with your Objection to the Statement of Performance. If the decision-maker agrees with your Objection to the Statement of Performance, a correction will be made and reflected on your Statement of Performance. If the decision-maker disagrees with your Objection to the Statement of Performance, the Decision will provide information about your right to appeal the Decision.
§ 2.816
May I appeal the Decision on my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
Yes. The Decision issued by the decision-maker is appealable to the reviewing official, who is the Director, BTFA.
§ 2.817
What must my Appeal of the Decision on the Objection to the Statement of Performance contain?
Your Appeal must comply with the instructions in § 2.214 and must include the statement date of the specific Statement of Performance that you are appealing.
§ 2.818
To whom must I submit my Appeal of a Decision on my Objection to the Statement of Performance?
You must submit your Appeal, as provided in § 2.214, to the reviewing official, at: U.S. Department of the Interior, Bureau of Trust Funds Administration, Attn: Director, BTFA, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20240.
§ 2.819
When must my Appeal be filed?
You must file your Appeal within 30 calendar days of the date that the decision-maker issued the Decision.
§ 2.820
May I submit any other documents in support of my Appeal?
No. You may not submit any other documents in support of your Appeal. The reviewing official may only consider the documents that were reviewed by the decision-maker.
§ 2.821
May I request an extension of time to submit my Appeal?
No. You must submit the Appeal within 30 calendar days of the issuance of the Decision. The reviewing official will not grant an extension of time to submit your appeal of a Decision.
§ 2.822
What happens if I do not submit my Appeal within the 30-day deadline?
If you fail to submit your Appeal within the 30-day deadline:
(a) The decision-maker's decision will be effective;
(b) The Statement of Performance at issue will be deemed accurate and complete;
(c) You will have waived your right to invoke the remainder of the review and appeals process as to that same Statement of Performance; and
(d) You will have failed to exhaust the administrative remedies available within the Department.
§ 2.823
When will the reviewing official issue the BTFA's ruling?
The reviewing official will issue the BTFA's ruling within 30 calendar days of receipt of your Appeal of a Decision on your Objection to the Statement of Performance. The ruling will provide information about your right to further appeal.
§ 2.824
May I appeal the BTFA's ruling?
Yes. The BTFA's ruling may be appealed to the AS-IA. The procedures, requirements, and deadlines set out in §§ 2.816, 2.817, and 2.819 through 2.821 apply to appeals to the AS-IA under this subpart. Submit your Appeal to: U.S. Department of the Interior, Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, MS 4660, 1849 C Street NW, Washington, DC 20240, as provided in § 2.214.
§ 2.825
When does the Statement of Performance or a Decision become final?
(a) Statements of Performance, and decisions rendered by Department officials under this subpart, are final when the deadline for submitting an Objection to the Statement of Performance or an Appeal has expired and the account holder has not submitted an Objection to the Statement of Performance or an Appeal.
(b) A decision rendered by the AS-IA is a final agency action.

# Subpart I—Alternative Dispute Resolution
§ 2.900
Is there a procedure other than a formal appeal for resolving disputes?
Yes. We strongly encourage parties to work together to reach a consensual resolution of disputes whenever possible. Use of an alternative approach to dispute resolution can save time and money, produce more durable and creative solutions, and foster improved relationships. It may be appropriate and
beneficial to consider the use of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) processes and techniques at any stage in a dispute. The parties may request information from the decision-maker on the use of an ADR process.
§ 2.901
How do I request alternative dispute resolution?
If you are interested in pursuing alternative dispute resolution, you may contact the reviewing official to make a request to use ADR for a particular issue or dispute.
§ 2.902
When do I initiate alternative dispute resolution?
We will consider a request to use alternative dispute resolution at any time. If you file a Notice of Appeal, you may request the opportunity to use a consensual form of dispute resolution.
§ 2.903
What will Indian Affairs do if I request alternative dispute resolution?
If all interested parties concur, the reviewing official may stay (discontinue consideration of) the appeal while the parties pursue ADR. Where the parties agree to use ADR, Indian Affairs and other interested parties may seek assistance from the Department of the Interior's Office of Collaborative Action and Dispute Resolution (CADR). CADR can assist in planning and facilitating an effective collaboration or dispute resolution process. Parties are encouraged to consider best practices for engagement, including but not limited to, the use of neutral facilitation and other collaborative problem-solving approaches to promote effective dialogue and conflict resolution.
Pt. 5

# PART 5—PREFERENCE IN EMPLOYMENT
Sec.
5.1
Definitions.
5.2
Appointment actions.
5.3
Application procedure for preference eligibility.
5.4
Information collection.

# Authority:
4 Stat. 737, 25 U.S.C. 43; 22 Stat. 88, 25 U.S.C. 46; 28 Stat. 313, 25 U.S.C. 44; 24 Stat. 389, 25 U.S.C. 348; and 48 Stat. 986, 25 U.S.C. 472 and 479.
§ 5.1
Definitions.
For purposes of making appointments to vacancies in all positions in the Bureau of Indian Affairs a preference will be extended to persons of Indian descent who are:
(a) Members of any recognized Indian tribe now under Federal Jurisdiction;
(b) Descendants of such members who were, on June 1, 1934, residing within the present boundaries of any Indian reservation;
(c) All others of one-half or more Indian blood of tribes indigenous to the United States;
(d) Eskimos and other aboriginal people of Alaska; and
(e) For one (1) year or until the Osage Tribe has formally organized, whichever comes first, effective January 5, 1989, a person of at least one-quarter degree Indian ancestry of the Osage Tribe of Indians, whose rolls were closed by an act of Congress.
[43 FR 2393, Jan. 17, 1978. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 283, Jan. 5, 1989]
§ 5.2
Appointment actions.
(a) Preference will be afforded a person meeting any one of the standards of § 5.1 whether the appointment involves initial hiring, reinstatement, transfer, reassignment or promotion.
(b) Preference eligibles may be given a Schedule A excepted appointment under Exception Number 213.3112(a)(7). However, if the individuals are within reach on a Civil Service Register, they may be given a competitive appointment.
[43 FR 2393, Jan. 17, 1978. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 49 FR 12702, Mar. 30, 1984]
§ 5.3
Application procedure for preference eligibility.
(a) Proof of eligibility must be submitted with the person's application for a position.
(b) In order for a person to be considered a preference eligible according to the standards of § 5.1, they must submit proof of membership, descendancy or degree of Indian ancestry as indicated
on rolls or records acceptable to the Secretary.
[43 FR 2393, Jan. 17, 1978. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 5.4
Information collection.
The Office of Management and Budget has informed the Department of the Interior that the information collection requirements contained in part 5 need not be reviewed by them under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
).
[54 FR 283, Jan. 5, 1989]

# SUBCHAPTER B—LAW AND ORDER
Pt. 10

# PART 10—INDIAN COUNTRY DETENTION FACILITIES AND PROGRAMS
Sec.
10.1
Why are policies and standards needed for Indian country detention programs?
10.2
Who is responsible for developing and maintaining the policies and standards for detention and holding facilities in Indian country?
10.3
Who must follow these policies and standards?
10.4
What happens if the policies and standards are not followed?
10.5
Where can I find the policies and standards for the administration, operation, services, and physical plant/construction of Indian country detention, community residential, and holding facilities?
10.6
How is the BIA assured that the policies and standards are being applied uniformly and facilities are properly accredited?
10.7
Where do I find help or receive technical assistance in complying with the policies and standards?
10.8
What minimum records must be kept and reports made at each detention, community residential, or holding facility in Indian country?
10.9
If a person is detained or incarcerated in an Indian country detention, community residential, or holding facility, how would they know what their rights, privileges, safety, protection and expected behavior would be?
10.10
What happens if I believe my civil rights have been violated while incarcerated in an Indian country detention or holding facility?
10.11
How would someone detained or incarcerated, or their representative, get the BIA policies and standards?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 13, 2417, 2453, and 2802.

# Source:
61 FR 34374, July 2, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 10.1
Why are policies and standards needed for Indian country detention programs?
Policies and standards are required to ensure that all Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and tribal entities that receive Federal funding for the operation, maintenance, design and construction or renovation of detention facilities, community residential, or holding facilities are supporting constitutional rights and are complying with the Indian Law Enforcement Reform Act of 1990. Self-governance tribes and tribes with limited jurisdiction are encouraged to follow the regulations in this part, and other BIA manuals and handbooks. The provision for funding tribes for detention programs under the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act, Public Law 99-570, (25 U.S.C. 2453) requires standards and procedures for such facilities.
[61 FR 34374, July 2, 1996; 61 FR 65473, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 10.2
Who is responsible for developing and maintaining the policies and standards for detention and holding facilities in Indian country?
The Director, Office of Law Enforcement Services who reports to the Deputy Commissioner of Indian Affairs, BIA, establishes policies, procedures, and standards for the operations, design, planning, maintenance, renovation, and construction of detention programs in the BIA and by tribal contract under Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450.
§ 10.3
Who must follow these policies and standards?
You must follow these minimum policies, standards, and guides if you are part of the BIA or tribal detention or rehabilitation program receiving Federal funding. Self-governance tribes and tribes with limited jurisdiction are encouraged to follow the regulations in this part, and other BIA manuals and handbooks. Detention officers, guards, cooks and other staff conducting business in the facilities must meet minimum standards of law enforcement personnel as prescribed in 25 CFR part 12, subpart D, “Qualifications and Training Requirements.” Those tribal programs not receiving Federal funding under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Public Law 93-638, as amended) who wish to be accredited are encouraged to use the policies and standards in that
part since they have been modified and approved for Indian country.
§ 10.4
What happens if the policies and standards are not followed?
The risk for human and civil rights violations due to lack of common standards will subject the operation and/or facility to unnecessary exposure to liability. Lack of employee standards, particularly for training and background checks, will increase the risk of misconduct and vicarious liability of the tribes and the Federal government through tort claims. Funding sources for detention programs may become scarce to nonexistent because of contract noncompliance. The tribes' opportunity to receive funding from potential resource sharing agreements with other law enforcement agencies may be damaged because the facility may have to be closed for cause due to violation of the life safety codes.
§ 10.5
Where can I find the policies and standards for the administration, operation, services, and physical plant/construction of Indian country detention, community residential, and holding facilities?
The Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, maintains a manual of policies and procedures called the
Bureau of Indian Affairs Manual (BIAM).
The chapter 69 BIAM titled “Indian Country Detention Facilities and Programs,” contains the BIA's policies, procedures, and standards for detention and holding programs in Indian country. The standards for the programs within the
BIAM
are in handbook format for easy field reference and use. Copies of the chapter 69
BIAM
and handbooks may be obtained from the Director, Office of Law Enforcement Services.
[61 FR 34374, July 2, 1996; 61 FR 65473, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 10.6
How is the BIA assured that the policies and standards are being applied uniformly and facilities are properly accredited?
The tribes and BIA programs will use a phased approach to meeting all non-mandatory detention standards and will document progress on uniform reporting. The BIA Office of Law Enforcement Services will conduct periodic operational evaluations for oversight.
§ 10.7
Where do I find help or receive technical assistance in complying with the policies and standards?
The BIA has a trained Detention Specialist on the staff of the Office of Law Enforcement Services, Albuquerque, New Mexico, who is available to conduct evaluations and provide technical assistance or guidance in all facets of Indian country detention programs.
§ 10.8
What minimum records must be kept and reports made at each detention, community residential, or holding facility in Indian country?
The Director, Office of Law Enforcement Services, BIA, will develop all necessary requirements for maintaining records, reporting data, and archiving information. These requirements will be published in 69 BIAM, “Indian Country Detention Facilities and Programs.”
[61 FR 34374, July 2, 1996; 61 FR 65473, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 10.9
If a person is detained or incarcerated in an Indian country detention, community residential, or holding facility, how would they know what their rights, privileges, safety, protection and expected behavior would be?
When an individual is incarcerated in an Indian country detention, community residential, or holding facility, he/she will be given, or in some cases notified of the availability of, an Inmate Handbook. This book of guidelines describes in detail the inmate's rights, privileges, protection and safety, cleanliness and sanitation, and general health and nutritional standards. The Inmate Handbook describes the emergency evacuation procedures, medical, counseling, rehabilitation services, visitation procedures, and other appropriate information. The Inmate Handbook is published by the Director, Office of Law Enforcement Services and maintained by the detention facility administrator at each facility location.
[61 FR 34374, July 2, 1996; 61 FR 65473, Dec. 13, 1996]
§ 10.10
What happens if I believe my civil rights have been violated while incarcerated in an Indian country detention or holding facility?
All allegations of civil rights violations must be reported immediately to the Internal Affairs Branch of the Office of Law Enforcement Services. This office will ensure that such allegations are immediately reported to the Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice through established procedures. The BIA Internal Affairs Branch may also investigate alleged violations and make recommendations for additional action as necessary. Detailed instructions on the procedure to report violations can be found in the Inmate Handbook.
§ 10.11
How would someone detained or incarcerated, or their representative, get the BIA policies and standards?
At each detention, community residential, or holding facility located in a tribal jurisdiction where federal funds are used for operations or maintenance programs, the BIA's policies, standards, and procedures will be made available upon request. The Inmate Handbook will be made available to all persons at the time they are incarcerated or detained in a facility. There may be times when this may be delayed due to the physical or mental condition of the person at time of incarceration. In these cases, the Inmate Handbook will be made available when the person is deemed receptive and cognizant by the detention officer in charge. All policies, standards, procedures, and guidelines are available at each facility to the public or by writing to the Director, Office of Law Enforcement Services.
[61 FR 34374, July 2, 1996; 61 FR 65473, Dec. 13, 1996]
Pt. 11

# PART 11—COURTS OF INDIAN OFFENSES AND LAW AND ORDER CODE

# Subpart A—Application; Jurisdiction
Sec.
11.100
Where are Courts of Indian Offenses established?
11.102
What is the purpose of this part?
11.104
When does this part apply?
11.106
Who is an Indian for purposes of this part?
11.108
How are tribal ordinances affected by this part?
11.110
How are tribal customs affected by this part?
11.112
[Reserved]
11.114
What is the criminal jurisdiction of the Court of Indian Offenses?
11.116
What is the civil jurisdiction of a Court of Indian Offenses?
11.118
What are the jurisdictional limitations of the Court of Indian Offenses?

# Subpart B—Courts of Indian Offenses; Personnel; Administration
11.200
What is the composition of the Court of Indian Offenses?
11.201
How are magistrates for the Court of Indian Offenses appointed?
11.202
How is a magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses removed?
11.203
How are the clerks of the Court of Indian Offenses appointed and what are their duties?
11.204
Prosecutors.
11.205
Are there standards for the appearance of attorneys and lay counselors?
11.206
Is the Court of Indian Offenses a court of record?
11.207
What are the responsibilities of Bureau of Indian Affairs employees?
11.208
May Individual Indian Money accounts be used for payment of judgments?
11.209
How does the Court of Indian Offenses dispose of fines?

# Subpart C—Criminal Procedure
11.300
Complaints.
11.301
Arrests.
11.302
Arrest warrants.
11.303
Notification of rights prior to custodial interrogation.
11.304
Summons in lieu of warrant.
11.305
Search warrants.
11.306
Search without a warrant.
11.307
Disposition of seized property.
11.308
Commitments.
11.309
Arraignments.
11.310
Bail.
11.311
Subpoenas.
11.312
Witness fees.
11.313
Trial procedure.
11.314
Jury trials.
11.315
Sentencing.
11.316
Probation.
11.317
Parole.
11.318
Extradition.

# Subpart D—Criminal Offenses
11.400
Assault.
11.401
Recklessly endangering another person.
11.402
Terroristic threats.
11.403
Unlawful restraint.
11.404
False imprisonment.
11.405
Interference with custody.
11.406
Criminal coercion.
11.407
Sexual assault.
11.408
Indecent exposure.
11.409
Reckless burning or exploding.
11.410
Criminal mischief.
11.411
Criminal trespass.
11.412
Theft.
11.413
Receiving stolen property.
11.414
Embezzlement.
11.415
Fraud.
11.416
Forgery.
11.417
Extortion.
11.418
Misbranding.
11.419
Unauthorized use of automobiles and other vehicles.
11.420
Tampering with records.
11.421
Bad checks.
11.422
Unauthorized use of credit cards.
11.423
Defrauding secured creditors.
11.424
Neglect of children.
11.425
Persistent non-support.
11.426
Bribery.
11.427
Threats and other improper influence in official and political matters.
11.428
Retaliation for past official action.
11.429
Perjury.
11.430
False alarms.
11.431
False reports.
11.432
Impersonating a public servant.
11.433
Disobedience to lawful order of court.
11.434
Resisting arrest.
11.435
Obstructing justice.
11.436
Escape.
11.437
Bail jumping.
11.438
Flight to avoid prosecution or judicial process.
11.439
Witness tampering.
11.440
Tampering with or fabricating physical evidence.
11.441
Disorderly conduct.
11.442
Riot; failure to disperse.
11.443
Harassment.
11.444
Carrying concealed weapons.
11.445
Driving violations.
11.446
Cruelty to animals.
11.447
Maintaining a public nuisance.
11.448
Abuse of office.
11.449
Violation of an approved tribal ordinance.
11.450
Maximum fines and sentences of imprisonment.
11.451
Abuse of psychotoxic chemical solvents.
11.452
Possession of a controlled substance.
11.453
Prostitution or solicitation.
11.454
Domestic violence.

# Subpart E—Civil Actions
11.500
Law applicable to civil actions.
11.501
Judgments in civil actions.
11.502
Costs in civil actions.
11.503
Applicable civil procedure.
11.504
Applicable rules of evidence.

# Subpart F—Domestic Relations
11.600
Marriages.
11.601
Marriage licenses.
11.602
Solemnization.
11.603
Invalid or prohibited marriages.
11.604
Declaration of invalidity.
11.605
Dissolution.
11.606
Dissolution proceedings.
11.607
Temporary orders and temporary injunctions.
11.608
Final decree; disposition of property; maintenance; child support; custody.
11.609
Determination of paternity and support.
11.610
Appointment of guardians.
11.611
Change of name.

# Subpart G—Probate Proceedings
11.700
Probate jurisdiction.
11.701
Duty to present will for probate.
11.702
Proving and admitting will.
11.703
Petition and order to probate estate.
11.704
Appointment and duties of executor or administrator.
11.705
Removal of executor or administrator.
11.706
Appointment and duties of appraiser.
11.707
Claims against estate.
11.708
Sale of property.
11.709
Final account.
11.710
Determination of the court.
11.711
Descent and distribution.
11.712
Closing estate.
11.713
Small estates.

# Subpart H—Appellate Proceedings
11.800
Jurisdiction of appellate division.
11.801
Procedure on appeal.
11.802
Judgment against surety.
11.803
Record on appeal.
11.804
Briefs and memoranda.
11.805
Oral argument.
11.806
Rules of court.

# Subpart I—Children's Court
11.900
Definitions.
11.901
The children's court established.
11.902
Non-criminal proceedings.
11.903
Presenting officer.
11.904
Guardian ad litem.
11.905
Jurisdiction.
11.906
Rights of parties.
11.907
Transfer to Court of Indian Offenses.
11.908
Court records.
11.909
Law enforcement records.
11.910
Expungement.
11.911
Appeal.
11.912
Contempt of court.

# Subpart J—Juvenile Offender Procedure
11.1000
Complaint.
11.1001
Warrant.
11.1002
Custody.
11.1003
Law enforcement officer's duties.
11.1004
Detention and shelter care.
11.1005
Preliminary inquiry.
11.1006
Investigation by the presenting officer.
11.1007
Petition.
11.1008
Date of hearing.
11.1009
Summons.
11.1010
Adjudicatory hearing.
11.1011
Dispositional hearing.
11.1012
Dispositional alternatives.
11.1013
Modification of dispositional order.
11.1014
Medical examination.

# Subpart K—Minor-in-Need-of-Care Procedure
11.1100
Complaint.
11.1101
Warrant.
11.1102
Custody.
11.1103
Law enforcement officer's duties.
11.1104
Shelter care.
11.1105
Preliminary inquiry.
11.1106
Investigation by the presenting officer.
11.1107
Petition.
11.1108
Date of hearing.
11.1109
Summons.
11.1110
Minor-in-need-of-care adjudicatory hearing.
11.1111
Minor-in-need-of-care dispositional hearing.
11.1112
Dispositional alternatives.
11.1113
Modification of dispositional order.
11.1114
Termination.
11.1115
Information collection.

# Subpart L—Child protection and domestic violence procedures
11.1200
Definitions.
11.1202
How to petition for an order of protection.
11.1204
Obtaining an emergency order of protection.
11.1206
Obtaining a regular (non-emergency) order of protection.
11.1208
Service of the protection order.
11.1210
Duration and renewal of a regular protection order.
11.1212
Consequences of disobedience or interference.
11.1214
Relationship of this part to other remedies.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; R.S. 463, 25 U.S.C. 2; R.S. 465, 25 U.S.C. 9; 42 Stat. 208, 25 U.S.C. 13; 38 Stat. 586, 25 U.S.C. 200.

# Source:
58 FR 54411, Oct. 21, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Application; Jurisdiction

# Source:
73 FR 39859, July 11, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 11.100
Where are Courts of Indian Offenses established?
(a) A list of the areas in Indian Country where Courts of Indian Offenses are established is available on the Bureau of Indian Affairs website (
www.bia.gov
) and is published periodically in the
Federal Register
.
(b) The Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, will maintain on the Bureau of Indian Affairs website (
www.bia.gov
) an updated list of the areas in Indian Country where Courts of Indian Offenses are established and, upon any change to the list, will publish notice of the change in the
Federal Register
with an updated complete list.
[85 FR 646, Jan. 7, 2020]
§ 11.102
What is the purpose of this part?
It is the purpose of the regulations in this part to provide adequate machinery for the administration of justice for Indian tribes in those areas of Indian country where tribes retain jurisdiction over Indians that is exclusive of State jurisdiction but where tribal courts have not been established to exercise that jurisdiction.
§ 11.104
When does this part apply?
(a) The regulations in this part continue to apply to each area in Indian Country listed in accordance with § 11.100 until either:
(1) BIA and the tribe enter into a contract or compact for the tribe to provide judicial services; or
(2) The tribe has put into effect a law-and-order code that establishes a court system and that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) When a tribe adopts a legal code and establishes a judicial system, the tribe must notify the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or his or her designee. The law-and-order code must be adopted by the tribe in accordance
with its constitution and by-laws or other governing documents.
[73 FR 39859, July 11, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 646, Jan. 7, 2020]
§ 11.106
Who is an Indian for purposes of this part?
For the purposes of the enforcement of the regulations in this part, an Indian is defined as a person who is a member of an Indian tribe which is recognized by the Federal Government as eligible for services from the BIA, and any other individual who is an “Indian” for the purposes of 18 U.S.C. 1152-1153.
§ 11.108
How are tribal ordinances affected by this part?
The governing body of each tribe occupying the Indian country over which a Court of Indian Offenses has jurisdiction may enact ordinances which, when approved by the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or his or her designee:
(a) Are enforceable in the Court of Indian Offenses having jurisdiction over the Indian country occupied by that tribe; and
(b) Supersede any conflicting regulation in this part.
§ 11.110
How are tribal customs affected by this part?
Each Court of Indian Offenses shall apply the customs of the tribe occupying the Indian country over which it has jurisdiction to the extent that they are consistent with the regulations of this part.
§ 11.112
[Reserved]
§ 11.114
What is the criminal jurisdiction of the Court of Indian Offenses?
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this title, each Court of Indian Offenses has jurisdiction over any action by an Indian (hereafter referred to as person) that is made a criminal offense under this part and that occurred within the Indian country subject to the court's jurisdiction.
(b) No person may be prosecuted, tried or punished for any offense unless the complaint is filed within 5 years after the offense is committed.
§ 11.116
What is the civil jurisdiction of a Court of Indian Offenses?
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this title, each Court of Indian Offenses has jurisdiction over any civil action arising within the territorial jurisdiction of the court in which:
(1) The defendant is an Indian; or
(2) Other claims, provided at least one party is an Indian.
(b) Any civil action commenced in a Court of Indian Offenses is barred unless the complaint is filed within 3 years after the right of action first accrues.
§ 11.118
What are the jurisdictional limitations of the Court of Indian Offenses?
(a) A Court of Indian Offenses may exercise over a Federal or State official only the same jurisdiction that it could exercise if it were a tribal court. The jurisdiction of Courts of Indian Offenses does not extend to Federal or State employees acting within the scope of their employment.
(b) A Court of Indian Offenses may not adjudicate an election dispute, take jurisdiction over a suit against a tribe, or adjudicate any internal tribal government dispute, unless the relevant tribal governing body passes a resolution, ordinance, or referendum granting the court jurisdiction.
(c) In deciding who is a tribal official, BIA will give deference to a decision of the Court of Indian Offenses, acting as a tribal forum by resolution or ordinance of a tribal governing body under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) A tribe may not be sued in a Court of Indian Offenses unless its tribal governing body explicitly waives its tribal immunity by tribal resolution or ordinance.

# Subpart B—Courts of Indian Offenses; Personnel; Administration
§ 11.200
What is the composition of the Court of Indian Offenses?
(a) Each court shall be composed of a trial division and an appellate division.
(b) A chief magistrate will be appointed for each court who will, in addition to other judicial duties, be responsible for the administration of the
court and the supervision of all court personnel.
(c) Appeals must be heard by a panel of magistrates who were not involved at the tribal/trial level.
(d) Decisions of the appellate division are final and are not subject to administrative appeals within the Department of the Interior.
[58 FR 54411, Oct. 21, 1993, as amended at 73 FR 39860, July 11, 2008]
§ 11.201
How are magistrates for the Court of Indian Offenses appointed?
(a) Each magistrate shall be appointed by the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or his or her designee subject to confirmation by a majority vote of the tribal governing body of the tribe occupying the Indian country over which the court has jurisdiction, or, in the case of multi-tribal courts, confirmation by a majority of the tribal governing bodies of the tribes under the jurisdiction of a Court of Indian Offenses.
(b) Each magistrate shall hold office for a period of four years, unless sooner removed for cause or by reason of the abolition of the office, but is eligible for reappointment.
(c) No person is eligible to serve as a magistrate of a Court of Indian Offenses who has ever been convicted of a felony or, within one year of the date of service or application, of a misdemeanor.
(d) No magistrate shall be qualified to act as such wherein he or she has any direct conflicting interest, real or apparent.
(e) A tribal governing body may set forth such other qualifications for magistrates of the Court of Indian Offenses as it deems appropriate, subject to the approval of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, or his or her designee.
(f) A tribal governing body may also recommend requirements for the training of magistrates of the Court of Indian Offenses to the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs.
§ 11.202
How is a magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses removed?
Any magistrate of a Court of Indian Offenses may be suspended, dismissed or removed by the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, or his or her designee, for cause, upon the written recommendation of the tribal governing body, and, in the case of multi-tribal courts, upon the recommendation of a majority of the tribal governing bodies of the tribes under the jurisdiction of a Court of Indian Offenses, or pursuant to his or her own discretion.
§ 11.203
How are the clerks of the Court of Indian Offenses appointed and what are their duties?
(a) Except as may otherwise be provided in a contract with the tribe occupying the Indian country over which the court has jurisdiction, the chief magistrate shall appoint a clerk of court for the Court of Indian Offenses within his or her jurisdiction, subject to the superintendent's approval.
(b) The clerk shall render assistance to the court, to local law enforcement officers and to individual members of the tribe in the drafting of complaints, subpoenas, warrants, commitments, and other documents incidental to the functions of the court. The clerk shall also attend and keep a record of all proceedings of the court and manage all monies received by the court.
(c) The clerk of court shall forward any monies received on judgments due to the person, agency, or corporation to which entitled, within 30 days unless directed otherwise by a magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses.
§ 11.204
Prosecutors.
Except as may otherwise be provided in a contract with the tribe occupying the Indian country over which the court has jurisdiction, the superintendent shall appoint a prosecutor for each Court of Indian Offenses within his or her jurisdiction.
§ 11.205
Are there standards for the appearance of attorneys and lay counselors?
(a) No defendant in a criminal proceeding shall be denied the right to counsel.
(b) The chief magistrate shall prescribe in writing standards governing the admission and practice in the
Court of Indian Offenses of professional attorneys and lay counselors.
§ 11.206
Is the Court of Indian Offenses a court of record?
(a) Each Court of Indian Offenses shall keep a record of all proceedings of the court containing the title of the case, the names of the parties, the complaint, all pleadings, the names and addresses of all witnesses, the date of any hearing or trial, the name of any magistrate conducting such hearing or trial, the findings of the court or jury, the judgment and any other information the court determines is important to the case.
(b) The record in each case shall be available for inspection by the parties to the case.
(c) Except for cases in which a juvenile is a party or the subject of a proceeding, and for cases whose records have been sealed by the court, all case records shall be available for inspection by the public.
(d) Such court records are part of the records of the BIA agency having jurisdiction over the Indian country where the Court of Indian Offenses is located and shall be protected in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3102.
§ 11.207
What are the responsibilities of Bureau of Indian Affairs employees?
(a) No employee of the BIA may obstruct, interfere with, or control the functions of any Court of Indian Offenses, or influence such functions in any manner except as permitted by Federal statutes or the regulations in this part or in response to a request for advice or information from the court.
(b) Employees of the BIA shall assist the court, upon its request, in the preparation and presentation of facts in the case and in the proper treatment of individual offenders.
§ 11.208
May Individual Indian Money accounts be used for payment of judgments?
(a) Any Court of Indian Offenses may make application to the superintendent who administers the individual Indian money account of a defendant who has failed to satisfy a money judgment from the court to obtain payment of the judgment from funds in the defendant's account. The court shall certify the record of the case to the superintendent. If the superintendent so directs, the disbursing agent shall pay over to the injured party the amount of the judgment or such lesser amount as may be specified by the superintendent.
(b) A judgment of a Court of Indian Offenses shall be considered a lawful debt in all proceedings held by the Department of the Interior or by a Court of Indian Offenses to distribute decedents' estates.
§ 11.209
How does the Court of Indian Offenses dispose of fines?
All money fines imposed for the commission of an offense shall be in the nature of an assessment for the payment of designated court expenses. The fines assessed shall be paid over by the clerk of the court to the disbursing agent of the reservation for deposit as a “special deposit, court funds” to the disbursing agent's official credit in the Treasury of the United States. The disbursing agent shall withdraw such funds, in accordance with existing regulations, upon order of the clerk of the court signed by a judge of the court for the payment of specified expenses. The disbursing agent and the clerk of the court shall keep an account of all such deposits and withdrawals available for public inspection.

# Subpart C—Criminal Procedure
§ 11.300
Complaints.
(a) A complaint is a written statement of the essential facts charging that a named individual(s) has committed a particular offense. All criminal prosecutions shall be initiated by a complaint filed with the court by a law enforcement officer and sworn to by a person having personal knowledge of the offense.
(b) Complaints shall contain:
(1) The signature of the complaining witness, or witnesses, sworn before a magistrate, a court clerk, a prosecutor, or any law enforcement officer.
(2) A written statement by the complaining witness or witnesses having personal knowledge of the violation,
describing in ordinary language the nature of the offense committed including the time and place as nearly as may be ascertained.
(3) The name or description of the person alleged to have committed the offense.
(4) A description of the offense charged and the section of the code allegedly violated.
(c) Complaints must be submitted without unnecessary delay by a law enforcement officer to the prosecutor and, if he or she approves, to a judge to determine whether an arrest warrant or summons should be issued.
(d) When an accused has been arrested without a warrant, a complaint shall be filed forthwith with the court for review as to whether probable cause exists to hold the accused, and in no instance shall a complaint be filed later than at the time of arraignment.
§ 11.301
Arrests.
(a) Arrest is the taking of a person into police custody in order that he or she may be held to answer for a criminal offense.
(b) No law enforcement officer shall arrest any person for a criminal offense except when:
(1) The officer shall have a warrant signed by a magistrate commanding the arrest of such person, or the officer knows for a certainty that such a warrant has been issued; or
(2) The offense shall occur in the presence of the arresting officer; or
(3) The officer shall have probable cause to believe that the person arrested has committed an offense.
§ 11.302
Arrest warrants.
(a) Each magistrate of a Court of Indian Offenses shall have the authority to issue warrants to apprehend any person the magistrate has probable cause to believe has committed a criminal offense in violation of the regulations under this part based on a written complaint filed with the court by a law enforcement officer and bearing the signature of the complainant.
(b) The arrest warrant shall contain the following information:
(1) Name or description and address, if known, of the person to be arrested.
(2) Date of issuance of the warrant.
(3) Description of the offense charged.
(4) Signature of the issuing magistrate.
(c) Such warrants may be served only by a BIA or tribal police officer or other officer commissioned to enforce the regulations of this part.
§ 11.303
Notification of rights prior to custodial interrogation.
Prior to custodial interrogation, the suspect shall be advised of the following rights:
(a) That he or she has the right to remain silent.
(b) That any statements made by him or her may be used against him or her in court.
(c) That he or she has the right to obtain counsel and, if indigent, to have counsel appointed for him/her.
§ 11.304
Summons in lieu of warrant.
(a) When otherwise authorized to arrest a suspect, a law enforcement officer or a magistrate may, in lieu of a warrant, issue a summons commanding the accused to appear before the Court of Indian Offenses at a stated time and place and answer to the charge.
(b) The summons shall contain the same information as a warrant, except that it may be signed by a police officer.
(c) The summons shall state that if a defendant fails to appear in response to a summons, a warrant for his or her arrest shall be issued.
(d) The summons, together with a copy of the complaint, shall be served upon the defendant by delivering a copy to the defendant personally or by leaving a copy at his or her usual residence or place of business with any person 18 years of age or older who also resides or works there. Service shall be made by an authorized law enforcement officer, who shall file with the record of the case a form indicating when the summons was served.
§ 11.305
Search warrants.
(a) Each magistrate of a Court of Indian Offenses shall have the authority to issue a warrant for the search of premises and for the seizure of physical evidence of a criminal violation under the regulations of this part located
within the Indian country over which the court has jurisdiction.
(b) No warrant for search or seizure may be issued unless it is based on a written and signed statement establishing, to the satisfaction of the magistrate, that probable cause exists to believe that the search will lead to discovery of evidence of a criminal violation under the regulations of this part.
(c) No warrant for search or seizure shall be valid unless it contains the name or description of the person, vehicle, or premises to be searched, describes the evidence to be seized, and bears the signature of the magistrate who issued it.
(d) Warrants may be executed only by a BIA or tribal police officer or other official commissioned to enforce the regulations under this part. The executing officer shall return the warrant to the Court of Indian Offenses within the time limit shown on the face of the warrant, which in no case shall be longer than ten (10) days from the date of issuance. Warrants not returned within such time limits shall be void.
§ 11.306
Search without a warrant.
No law enforcement officer shall conduct any search without a valid warrant except:
(a) Incident to making a lawful arrest; or
(b) With the voluntary consent of the person being searched; or
(c) When the search is of a moving vehicle and the officer has probable cause to believe that it contains contraband, stolen property, or property otherwise unlawfully possessed.
§ 11.307
Disposition of seized property.
(a) The officer serving and executing a warrant shall make an inventory of all seized property, and a copy of such inventory shall be left with every person from whom property is seized.
(b) A hearing shall be held by the Court of Indian Offenses to determine the disposition of all seized property. Upon satisfactory proof of ownership, the property shall be delivered immediately to the owner, unless such property is contraband or is to be used as evidence in a pending case. Property seized as evidence shall be returned to the owner after final judgment. Property confiscated as contraband shall be destroyed or otherwise lawfully disposed of as ordered by the Court of Indian Offenses.
§ 11.308
Commitments.
No person may be detained, jailed or imprisoned under the regulations of this part for longer than 48 hours unless the Court of Indian Offenses issues a commitment bearing the signature of a magistrate. A temporary commitment shall be issued for each person held before trial. A final commitment shall be issued for each person sentenced to jail after trial.
§ 11.309
Arraignments.
(a) Arraignment is the bringing of an accused before the court, informing him or her of his or her rights and of the charge(s) against him or her, receiving the plea, and setting conditions of pretrial release as appropriate in accordance with this part.
(b) Arraignment shall be held in open court without unnecessary delay after the accused is taken into custody and in no instance shall arraignment be later than the next regular session of court.
(c) Before an accused is required to plead to any criminal charges the magistrate shall:
(1) Read the complaint to the accused and determine that he or she understands it and the section(s) of this part that he or she is charged with violating, including the maximum authorized penalty; and
(2) Advise the accused that he or she has the right to remain silent, to be tried by a jury if the offense charged is punishable by imprisonment, to be represented by counsel (which shall be paid for by the government if the accused is indigent) and that the arraignment will be postponed should he or she desire to consult with counsel.
(d) The magistrate shall call upon the defendant to plead to the charge:
(1) If the accused pleads “not guilty” to the charge, the magistrate shall then inform the accused of the trial date and set conditions for release prior to trial.
(2) If the accused pleads “guilty” to the charge, the magistrate shall accept
the plea only if he or she is satisfied that the plea is made voluntarily and that the accused understands the consequences of the plea, including the rights waived by the plea. The magistrate may then impose sentence or defer sentencing for a reasonable time in order to obtain any information he or she deems necessary for the imposition of a just sentence. The accused shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard by the court prior to sentencing.
(3) If the accused refuses to plead, the judge shall enter a plea of “not guilty” on his or her behalf.
(e) The court may, in its discretion, allow a defendant to withdraw a plea of guilty if it appears that the interest of justice would be served by doing so.
§ 11.310
Bail.
(a) Each person charged with a criminal offense under this part shall be entitled to release from custody pending trial under whichever one or more of the following conditions is deemed necessary to reasonably assure the appearance of the person at any time lawfully required:
(1) Release on personal recognizance upon execution by the accused of a written promise to appear at trial and all other lawfully required times;
(2) Release to the custody of a designated person or organization agreeing to assure the accused's appearance;
(3) Release with reasonable restrictions on the travel, association, or place of residence of the accused during the period of release;
(4) Release after deposit of a bond or other sufficient collateral in an amount specified by the magistrate or a bail schedule;
(5) Release after execution of a bail agreement by two responsible members of the community; or
(6) Release upon any other condition deemed reasonably necessary to assure the appearance of the accused as required.
(b) Any law enforcement officer authorized to do so by the court may admit an arrested person to bail pending trial pursuant to a bail schedule and conditions prepared by the court.
(c) A convicted person may be released from custody pending appeal on such conditions as the magistrate determines will reasonably assure the appearance of the accused unless the magistrate determines that release of the accused is likely to pose a danger to the community, the accused, or any other person.
(d) The Court of Indian Offenses may revoke its release of the defendant and order him or her committed at any time where it determines that the conditions of release will not reasonably assure the appearance of the defendant, or if any conditions of release have been violated.
§ 11.311
Subpoenas.
(a) Upon request of any party, the court shall issue subpoenas to compel the testimony of witnesses, or the production of books, records, documents or any other physical evidence relevant to the determination of the case and not an undue burden on the person possessing the evidence. The clerk of the court may act on behalf of the court and issue subpoenas which have been signed either by the clerk of the court or by a magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses and which are to be served within Indian country over which the Court of Indian Offenses has jurisdiction.
(b) A subpoena shall bear the signature of the chief magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses, and it shall state the name of the court, the name of the person or description of the physical evidence to be subpoenaed, the title of the proceeding, and the time and place where the witness is to appear or the evidence is to be produced.
(c) A subpoena may be served at any place but any subpoena to be served outside of the Indian country over which the Court of Indian Offenses has jurisdiction shall be issued personally by a magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses.
(d) A subpoena may be served by any law enforcement officer or other person appointed by the court for such purpose. Service of a subpoena shall be made by delivering a copy of it to the person named or by leaving a copy at his or her place of residence or business with any person 18 years of age or older who also resides or works there.
(e) Proof of service of the subpoena shall be filed with the clerk of the court by noting on the back of the subpoena the date, time and place that it was served and noting the name of the person to whom it was delivered. Proof of service shall be signed by the person who actually served the subpoena.
(f) In the absence of a justification satisfactory to the court, a person who fails to obey a subpoena may be deemed to be in contempt of court and a bench warrant may be issued for his or her arrest.
§ 11.312
Witness fees.
(a) Each fact witness answering a subpoena is entitled to a fee of not less than the hourly minimum wage scale established by 29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1) and any of its subsequent revisions, plus actual cost of travel. Each fact witness testifying at a hearing shall receive pay for a full day (eight hours) plus travel allowance.
(b) The Court of Indian Offenses may order any party calling a witness to testify without a subpoena to compensate the witness for actual traveling and living expenses incurred in testifying.
(c) If the Court of Indian Offenses finds that a complaint was not filed in good faith but with a frivolous or malicious intent, it may order the complainant to reimburse the court for expenditures incurred under this section, and such order may constitute a judgment upon which execution may levy.
§ 11.313
Trial procedure.
(a) The time and place of court sessions, and all other details of judicial procedure shall be set out in rules of court approved by the chief magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses.
(b) Courts of Indian Offenses shall be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence, except insofar as such rules are superseded by order of the court or by the existence of inconsistent tribal rules of evidence.
§ 11.314
Jury trials.
(a) A defendant has a right, upon demand, to a jury trial in any criminal case:
(1) That is punishable by a maximum sentence of one year incarceration; or
(2) In which the prosecutor informs the court before the case comes to trial that a jail sentence will be sought.
(b) If the prosecutor informs the court that no sentence of incarceration will be sought, the court may not impose a sentence of incarceration for the offense.
(c) A jury must consist of not less than six residents of the vicinity in which trial is held, selected from a list of eligible jurors prepared each year by the court.
(1) An eligible juror must:
(i) Be at least 18 years of age;
(ii) Not have been convicted of a felony; and
(iii) Be otherwise qualified according to standards established by the Court of Indian Offenses under its general rulemaking authority.
(2) Any party may challenge without cause a maximum of three members of the jury panel chosen under this section.
(d) The magistrate shall instruct the jury with regard to the applicable law and the jury shall decide all questions of fact on the basis of the law.
(e) The jury shall deliberate in secret and return a verdict of guilty or not guilty. Six out of the eight jurors must concur to render a verdict.
(f) Each juror who serves on a jury is entitled to a fee not less than the hourly minimum wage scale established by 29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1), and any of its subsequent revisions, plus mileage not to exceed the maximum rate per mile established by the Federal Government of jurors and witnesses. Each juror shall receive pay for a full day (eight hours) for any portion of a day served, plus travel allowance.
[58 FR 54411, Oct. 21, 1993, as amended at 73 FR 39861, July 11, 2008]
§ 11.315
Sentencing.
(a) Any person who has been convicted in a Court of Indian Offenses of a criminal offense under the regulations of this part may be sentenced to one or a combination of the following penalties:
(1) Imprisonment for a period up to the maximum permitted by the section defining the offense, but in no case for longer than one year; and
(2) A fine in an amount up to the maximum permitted by the section defining the offense, but in no case greater than $5,000.
(b) In addition to or in lieu of the penalties provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the court may require a convicted offender who has inflicted injury upon the person or property of another to make restitution or compensate the injured person by means of the surrender of property, payment of money damages, or the performance of any other act for the benefit of the injured party.
(c) If, solely because of indigence, a convicted offender is unable to pay forthwith a money fine assessed under any applicable section, the court shall allow him or her a reasonable period of time to pay the entire sum or allow him or her to make reasonable installment payments to the clerk of the court at specified intervals until the entire sum is paid. If the offender defaults on such payments the court may find him or her in contempt of court and imprison him or her accordingly.
[58 FR 54411, Oct. 21, 1993, as amended at 73 FR 39861, July 11, 2008]
§ 11.316
Probation.
(a) Where a sentence of imprisonment has been imposed on a convicted offender, the Court of Indian Offenses may, in its discretion, suspend the serving of such sentence and release the person on probation under any reasonable conditions deemed appropriate by the court, provided that the period of probation shall not exceed one year.
(b) Any person who violates the terms of his or her probation may be required by the court to serve the sentence originally imposed or such part of it as the court may determine to be suitable giving consideration to all the circumstances, provided that such revocation of probation shall not be ordered without a hearing before the court at which the offender shall have the opportunity to explain his or her actions.
§ 11.317
Parole.
(a) Any person sentenced by the court of detention or labor shall be eligible for parole at such time and under such reasonable conditions as set by the Court of Indian Offenses.
(b) Any person who violates the conditions of his or her parole may be required by the court to serve the whole original sentence, provided that such revocation or parole shall not be ordered without a hearing before the court at which the offender shall have the opportunity to explain his or her actions.
§ 11.318
Extradition.
Any Court of Indian Offenses may order delivery to the proper state, tribal or BIA law enforcement authorities of any person found within the jurisdiction of the court, who is charged with an offense in another jurisdiction. Prior to delivery to the proper officials, the accused shall be accorded a right to contest the propriety of the court's order in a hearing before the court.

# Subpart D—Criminal Offenses
§ 11.400
Assault.
(a) A person is guilty of assault if he or she:
(1) Attempts to cause or purposely, knowingly or recklessly causes bodily injury to another; or
(2) Negligently causes bodily injury to another with a deadly weapon; or
(3) Attempts by physical menace to put another in fear of imminent serious bodily injury.
(b) Assault is a misdemeanor unless committed in a fight or scuffle entered into by mutual consent, in which case it is a petty misdemeanor.
§ 11.401
Recklessly endangering another person.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she recklessly engages in conduct which places or may place another person in danger of death or serious bodily injury. Recklessness and danger shall be presumed where a person knowingly points a firearm at or in the direction of another person, whether or not the actor believed the firearm to be loaded.
[58 FR 54411, Oct. 21, 1993; 58 FR 58729, Nov. 3, 1993]
§ 11.402
Terroristic threats.
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor if he or she threatens to commit any crime of violence with purpose to terrorize another or to cause evacuation of a building, place of assembly or facility of public transportation, or otherwise to cause serious public inconvenience or in reckless disregard of the risk of causing such terror or inconvenience.
§ 11.403
Unlawful restraint.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly:
(a) Restrains another unlawfully in circumstances exposing him or her to risk of serious bodily injury; or
(b) Holds another in a condition of involuntary servitude.
§ 11.404
False imprisonment.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly restrains another unlawfully so as to interfere substantially with his or her liberty.
§ 11.405
Interference with custody.
(a)
Custody of children.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly or recklessly takes or entices any child under the age of 18 from the custody of his or her parent, guardian or other lawful custodian, when he or she has no privilege to do so.
(b)
Custody of committed person.
A person is guilty of a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly or recklessly takes or entices any committed person away from lawful custody when he or she does not have the privilege to do so.
Committed person
means, in addition to anyone committed under judicial warrant, any orphan, neglected or delinquent child, mentally defective or insane person, or other dependent or incompetent person entrusted to another's custody by or through a recognized social agency or otherwise by authority of law.
§ 11.406
Criminal coercion.
(a) A person is guilty of criminal coercion if, with purpose to unlawfully restrict another's freedom of action to his or her detriment, he or she threatens to:
(1) Commit any criminal offense; or
(2) Accuse anyone of a criminal offense; or
(3) Take or withhold action as an official, or cause an official to take or withhold action.
(b) Criminal coercion is classified as a misdemeanor.
§ 11.407
Sexual assault.
(a) A person who has sexual contact with another person not his or her spouse, or causes such other person to have sexual contact with him or her, is guilty of sexual assault as a misdemeanor, if:
(1) He or she knows that the conduct is offensive to the other person; or
(2) He or she knows that the other person suffers from a mental disease or defect which renders him or her incapable of appraising the nature or his or her conduct; or
(3) He or she knows that the other person is unaware that a sexual act is being committed; or
(4) The other person is less than 10 years old; or
(5) He or she has substantially impaired the other person's power to appraise or control his or her conduct, by administering or employing without the other's knowledge drugs, intoxicants or other means for the purpose of preventing resistance; or
(6) The other person is less than 16 years old and the actor is at least four years older than the other person; or
(7) The other person is less than 21 years old and the actor is his or her guardian or otherwise responsible for general supervision of his or her welfare; or
(8) The other person is in custody of law or detained in a hospital or other institution and the actor has supervisory or disciplinary authority over him or her.
(b) Sexual contact is any touching of the sexual or other intimate parts of the person for the purpose of arousing or gratifying sexual desire, or for the purpose of abusing, humiliating, harassing, or degrading the victim.
§ 11.408
Indecent exposure.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she exposes his or her genitals under circumstances in which he or she
knows his or her conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm.
§ 11.409
Reckless burning or exploding.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she purposely starts a fire or causes an explosion, whether on his or her property or another's, and thereby recklessly:
(a) Places another person in danger of death or bodily injury; or
(b) Places a building or occupied structure of another in danger of damage or destruction.
§ 11.410
Criminal mischief.
(a) A person is guilty of criminal mischief if he or she:
(1) Damages tangible property of another purposely, recklessly, or by negligence in the employment of fire, explosives, or other dangerous means; or
(2) Purposely or recklessly tampers with tangible property of another so as to endanger person or property; or
(3) Purposely or recklessly causes another to suffer pecuniary loss by deception or threat.
(b) Criminal mischief is a misdemeanor if the actor purposely causes pecuniary loss in excess of $100, or a petty misdemeanor if he or she purposely or recklessly causes pecuniary loss in excess of $25. Otherwise, criminal mischief is a violation.
§ 11.411
Criminal trespass.
(a) A person commits an offense if, knowing that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she enters or surreptitiously remains in any building or occupied structure. An offense under this subsection is a misdemeanor if it is committed in a dwelling at night. Otherwise it is a petty misdemeanor.
(b) A person commits an offense if, knowing that he or she is not licensed or privileged to do so, he or she enters or remains in any place as to which notice against trespass is given by:
(1) Actual communication to the actor; or
(2) Posting in a manner prescribed by law or reasonably likely to come to the attention of intruders; or
(3) Fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to exclude intruders.
(c) An offense under this section constitutes a petty misdemeanor if the offender defies an order to leave personally communicated to him or her by the owner of the premises or other authorized person. Otherwise it is a violation.
§ 11.412
Theft.
A person who, without permission of the owner, shall take, shoplift, possess or exercise unlawful control over movable property not his or her own or under his or her control with the purpose to deprive the owner thereof or who unlawfully transfers immovable property of another or any interest therein with the purpose to benefit himself or herself or another not entitled thereto shall be guilty of theft, a misdemeanor.
§ 11.413
Receiving stolen property.
A person is guilty of receiving stolen property, a misdemeanor, if he or she purposely receives, retains, or disposes of movable property of another knowing that it has been stolen, or believing that it has probably been stolen, unless the property is received, retained, or disposed with purpose to restore it to the owner.
Receiving
means acquiring possession, control or title, or lending on the security of the property.
§ 11.414
Embezzlement.
A person who shall, having lawful custody of property not his or her own, appropriate the same to his or her own use, with intent to deprive the owner thereof, shall be guilty of embezzlement, a misdemeanor.
§ 11.415
Fraud.
A person who shall by willful misrepresentation or deceit, or by false interpreting, or by the use of false weights or measures obtain any money or other property, shall be guilty of fraud, a misdemeanor.
§ 11.416
Forgery.
(a) A person is guilty of forgery, a misdemeanor, if, with purpose to defraud or injure anyone, or with knowledge that he or she is facilitating fraud or injury to be perpetrated by anyone, he or she:
(1) Alters, makes, completes, authenticates, issues or transfers any writing of another without his or her authority; or
(2) Utters any writing which he or she knows to be forged in a manner above specified.
(b) “Writing” includes printing or any other method of recording information, money, coins, tokens, stamps, seals, credit cards, badges, trademarks, and other symbols of value, right, privilege, or identification.
§ 11.417
Extortion.
A person who shall willfully, by making false charges against another person or by any other means whatsoever, extort or attempt to extort any moneys, goods, property, or anything else of any value, shall be guilty of extortion, a misdemeanor.
§ 11.418
Misbranding.
A person who shall knowingly and willfully misbrand or alter any brand or mark on any livestock of another person, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 11.419
Unauthorized use of automobiles and other vehicles.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates another person's automobile, airplane, motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without consent of the owner. It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that the actor reasonably believed that the owner would have consented to the operation had he or she known of it.
§ 11.420
Tampering with records.
A person commits a misdemeanor if, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, he or she falsifies, destroys, removes or conceals any writing or record, with purpose to deceive or injure anyone or to conceal any wrongdoing.
§ 11.421
Bad checks.
(a) A person who issues or passes a check or similar sight order for the payment of money, knowing that it will not be honored by the drawee, commits a misdemeanor.
(b) For the purposes of this section, an issuer is presumed to know that the check or order would not be paid, if:
(1) The issuer had no account with the drawee at the time the check or order was issued; or
(2) Payment was refused by the drawee for lack of funds, upon presentation within 30 days after issue, and the issuer failed to make good within 10 days after receiving notice of that refusal.
§ 11.422
Unauthorized use of credit cards.
(a) A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she uses a credit card for the purpose of obtaining property or services with knowledge that:
(1) The card is stolen or forged; or
(2) The card has been revoked or cancelled; or
(3) For any other reason his or her use of the card is unauthorized by the issuer.
(b)
Credit card
means a writing or other evidence of an undertaking to pay for property or services delivered or rendered to or upon the order of a designated person or bearer.
§ 11.423
Defrauding secured creditors.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she destroys, conceals, encumbers, transfers or otherwise deals with property subject to a security interest with purpose to hinder that interest.
§ 11.424
Neglect of children.
(a) A parent, guardian, or other person supervising the welfare of a child under 18 commits a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly endangers the child's welfare by violating a duty of care, protection or support.
(b) A parent, guardian, or other person supervising the welfare of a child under 18 commits a violation if he or she neglects or refuses to send the child to school.
§ 11.425
Persistent non-support.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she persistently fails to provide support which he or she can provide and which he or she knows he or she is legally obliged to provide to a spouse, child or other dependent.
§ 11.426
Bribery.
(a) A person is guilty of bribery, a misdemeanor, if he or she offers, confers or agrees to confer upon another, or solicits, accepts or agrees to accept from another:
(1) Any pecuniary benefit as consideration for the recipient's decision, opinion, recommendation, vote or other exercise of discretion as a public servant, party official or voter; or
(2) Any benefit as consideration for the recipient's decision, vote, recommendation or other exercise of official discretion in a judicial or administrative proceeding; or
(3) Any benefit as consideration for a violation of a known legal duty as a public servant or party official.
(b) It is no defense to prosecution under this section that a person whom the actor sought to influence was not qualified to act in the desired way, whether because he or she had not yet assumed office, or lacked jurisdiction, or for any other reason.
§ 11.427
Threats and other improper influence in official and political matters.
(a) A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she:
(1) Threatens unlawful harm to any person with purpose to influence his or her decision, vote or other exercise of discretion as a public servant, party official or voter; or
(2) Threatens harm to any public servant with purpose to influence his decision, opinion, recommendation, vote or other exercise of discretion in a judicial or administrative proceeding; or
(3) Threatens harm to any public servant with purpose to influence his decision, opinion, recommendation, vote or other exercise of discretion in a judicial or administrative proceeding; or
(b) It is no defense to prosecution under this section that a person whom the actor sought to influence was not qualified to act in the desired way, whether because he or she had not yet assumed office, or lacked jurisdiction, or for any other reason.
§ 11.428
Retaliation for past official action.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she harms another by any unlawful act in retaliation for anything lawfully done by the latter in the capacity of public servant.
§ 11.429
Perjury.
A person is guilty of perjury, a misdemeanor, if in any official proceeding he or she makes a false statement under oath or equivalent affirmation, or swears or affirms the truth of a statement previously made, when the statement is material and he or she does not believe it to be true.
(a) No person shall be guilty of an offense under this section if he or she retracted the falsification in the course of the proceeding in which it was made before it became manifest that the falsification was or would be exposed and before the falsification substantially affected the proceeding.
(b) No person shall be convicted of an offense under this section where proof of falsity rests solely upon contradiction by testimony of a single person other than the defendant.
§ 11.430
False alarms.
A person who knowingly causes a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be transmitted to, or within any organization, official or volunteer, for dealing with emergencies involving danger to life or property commits a misdemeanor.
§ 11.431
False reports.
(a) A person who knowingly gives false information to any law enforcement officer with the purpose to implicate another commits a misdemeanor.
(b) A person commits a petty misdemeanor if he or she:
(1) Reports to law enforcement authorities an offense or other incident within their concern knowing that it did not occur; or
(2) Pretends to furnish such authorities with information relating to an offense or incident when he or she knows he or she has no information relating to such offense or incident.
§ 11.432
Impersonating a public servant.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she falsely pretends to hold a position in the public service with purpose to induce another to submit to such pretended official authority or otherwise to act in reliance upon that pretense to his or her prejudice.
§ 11.433
Disobedience to lawful order of court.
A person who willfully disobeys any order, subpoena, summons, warrant or command duly issued, made or given by any Court of Indian Offenses or any officer thereof is guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 11.434
Resisting arrest.
A person commits a misdemeanor if, for the purpose of preventing a public servant from effecting a lawful arrest or discharging any other duty, he or she creates a substantial risk of bodily injury to the public servant or anyone else, or employs means justifying or requiring substantial force to overcome the resistance.
§ 11.435
Obstructing justice.
A person commits a misdemeanor if, with purpose to hinder the apprehension, prosecution, conviction or punishment of another for a crime, he or she harbors or conceals the other, provides a weapon, transportation, disguise or other means of escape, warns the other of impending discovery, or volunteers false information to a law enforcement officer.
§ 11.436
Escape.
A person is guilty of the offense of escape, a misdemeanor, if he or she unlawfully removes himself or herself from official detention or fails to return to official detention following temporary leave granted for a specific purpose or limited period.
§ 11.437
Bail jumping.
A person set at liberty by court order, with or without bail, upon condition that he or she will subsequently appear at a specified time or place, commits a misdemeanor if, without lawful excuse, he or she fails to appear at that time and place.
§ 11.438
Flight to avoid prosecution or judicial process.
A person who shall absent himself or herself from the Indian country over which the Court of Indian Offenses exercises jurisdiction for the purpose of avoiding arrest, prosecution or other judicial process shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 11.439
Witness tampering.
(a) A person commits a misdemeanor if, believing that an official proceeding or investigation is pending or about to be instituted, he or she attempts to induce or otherwise cause a witness or informant to:
(1) Testify or inform falsely; or
(2) Withhold any testimony, information, document or thing; or
(3) Elude legal process summoning him or her to supply evidence; or
(4) Absent himself or herself from any proceeding or investigation to which he or she has been legally summoned.
(b) A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she harms another by any unlawful act in retaliation for anything lawfully done in the capacity of witness or informant.
§ 11.440
Tampering with or fabricating physical evidence.
A person commits a misdemeanor if, believing that an official proceeding or investigation is pending or about to be instituted, he or she:
(a) Alters, destroys, conceals, or removes any record, document or thing with purpose to impair its verity or availability in such proceeding or investigation; or
(b) Makes, presents or uses any record, document or thing knowing it to be false and with the purpose to mislead a public servant who is or may be engaged in such proceeding or investigation.
§ 11.441
Disorderly conduct.
(a) A person is guilty of disorderly conduct if, with purpose to cause public inconvenience, annoyance or alarm or recklessly creating a risk thereof, he or she:
(1) Engages in fighting or threatening, or in violent or tumultuous behavior;
(2) Makes unreasonable noise or offensively coarse utterance, gesture or display, or addresses abusive language to any person present; or
(3) Creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act which serves no legitimate purpose of the actor.
(b)
Public
means affecting or likely to affect persons in a place to which the public has access; among the places included are highways, schools, prisons, apartments, places of business or amusement, or any neighborhood.
(c) An offense under this section is a petty misdemeanor if the actor's purpose is to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience, or if he or she persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable warning or request to desist. Otherwise, disorderly conduct is a violation.
§ 11.442
Riot; failure to disperse.
(a) A person is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor, if he or she participates with two or more others in a course of disorderly conduct:
(1) With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a felony or misdemeanor; or
(2) With purpose to prevent or coerce official action; or
(3) When the actor or any other participant to the knowledge of the actor uses or plans to use a firearm or other deadly weapon.
(b) Where three or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly conduct likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience, a law enforcement officer may order the participants and others in the immediate vicinity to disperse. A person who refuses or knowingly fails to obey such an order commits a misdemeanor.
§ 11.443
Harassment.
A person commits a petty misdemeanor if, with purpose to harass another, he or she:
(a) Makes a telephone call without purpose or legitimate communication; or
(b) Insults, taunts or challenges another in a manner likely to provoke violent or disorderly response; or
(c) Makes repeated communications anonymously or at extremely inconvenient hours, or in offensively coarse language; or
(d) Subjects another to an offensive touching; or
(e) Engages in any other course of alarming conduct serving no legitimate purpose.
§ 11.444
Carrying concealed weapons.
A person who goes about in public places armed with a dangerous weapon concealed upon his or her person is guilty of a misdemeanor unless he or she has a permit to do so signed by a magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses.
§ 11.445
Driving violations.
(a) A person who shall operate any vehicle in a manner dangerous to the public safety is guilty of reckless driving, a petty misdemeanor, unless it is committed while under the influence of alcohol, in which case it is a misdemeanor.
(b) A person who shall drive, operate or be in physical control of any motor vehicle when his or her alcohol concentration is 0.10 or more shall be guilty of driving while intoxicated, a misdemeanor.
(c) Any person who drives, operates, or is in physical control of a motor vehicle within the Indian country under the jurisdiction of a Court of Indian Offenses consents to a chemical test of his or her blood, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the presence of alcohol, to be administered at the direction of a law enforcement officer. The test may be required when the officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person is driving while intoxicated, and the person has either been lawfully placed under arrest for a violation of this section, or has been involved in a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting in property damage, personal injury, or death.
(d) In the absence of an applicable tribal traffic code, the provisions of state traffic laws applicable in the state where a Court of Indian Offenses is located shall apply to the operation
of motor vehicles within the Indian country under the jurisdiction of the Court of Indian Offenses with the exception that any person found guilty of violating such laws shall, in lieu of the penalties provided under state law, be sentenced according to the standards found in § 11.450 depending on the nature of the traffic code violation, and may be deprived of the right to operate any motor vehicle for a period not to exceed 6 months.
§ 11.446
Cruelty to animals.
A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she purposely or recklessly:
(a) Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
(b) Subjects any animal to cruel mistreatment; or
(c) Kills or injures any animal belonging to another without legal privilege or consent of the owner.
(d) Causes one animal to fight with another.
§ 11.447
Maintaining a public nuisance.
A person who permits his or her property to fall into such condition as to injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort, or property of his or her neighbors, is guilty of a violation.
§ 11.448
Abuse of office.
A person acting or purporting to act in an official capacity or taking advantage of such actual or purported capacity commits a misdemeanor if, knowing that his or her conduct is illegal, he or she:
(a) Subjects another to arrest, detention, search, seizure, mistreatment, dispossession, assessment, lien or other infringement of personal or property rights; or
(b) Denies or impedes another in the exercise or enjoyment of any right, privilege, power or immunity.
§ 11.449
Violation of an approved tribal ordinance.
A person who violates the terms of any tribal ordinance duly enacted by the governing body of the tribe occupying the Indian country under the jurisdiction of the Court of Indian Offenses and approved by the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or his or her designee, is guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof shall be sentenced as provided in the ordinance.
§ 11.450
Maximum fines and sentences of imprisonment.
A person convicted of an offense under the regulations in this part may be sentenced as follows:
Type of offense
Maximum allowable sentence
(a) Misdemeanor
Up to 1 year in prison, or a fine of up to $5,000, or both.
(b) Petty misdemeanor
Up to 6 months in prison, or a fine of up to $2,500, or both.
(c) Violation
Up to 3 months in prison, or a fine of up to $1,000, or both.
[73 FR 39861, July 11, 2008]
§ 11.451
Abuse of psychotoxic chemical solvents.
(a) It is unlawful to:
(1) Intentionally smell or inhale the fumes of any psychotoxic chemical solvent or possess, purchase, or attempt to possess or purchase any psychotoxic chemical solvent, for the purpose of causing intoxication, inebriation, excitement, stupefaction, or the dulling of the brain or nervous system; or
(2) Sell, give away, dispense, or distribute, or offer to sell, give away, dispense, or distribute, any psychotoxic chemical solvent knowing or believing that the purchaser or another person intends to use the solvent in violation of this section.
(b) This section does not apply to inhalation of anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
(c) As used in this section, “psychotoxic chemical solvent” means any glue, gasoline, paint, hair spray, Lysol, or other substance containing one or more of the following chemical compounds:
(1) Acetone and acetate;
(2) Benzene;
(3) Butyl-alcohol;
(4) Methyl ethyl;
(6) Peptone;
(7) Pentachlorophenol;
(8) Petroleum ether; or
(9) Any other chemical substance the inhalation of whose fumes or vapors can cause intoxication, inebriation, excitement, stupefaction, or the dulling of the brain or nervous system.
(d) The statement listing the contents of a substance packaged in a container by the manufacturer or producer thereof is rebuttable proof of the contents of the substance without further expert testimony if it reasonably appears that the substance in the container is the same substance placed therein by the manufacturer or producer.
(e) Abuse of psychotoxic chemical solvents, as defined in this section, is punishable as a petty misdemeanor, and the court may order any person using psychotoxic chemical solvents as described in paragraph (a) of this section to be committed to a facility for treatment for up to 6 months.
(f) Psychotoxic chemical solvents kept or used in violation of this section are declared contraband. Upon proof of a violation, these solvents must be forfeited to the Federal government by order of the court, following public notice and an opportunity for any person claiming an interest in the solvents to be heard.
[73 FR 39861, July 11, 2008]
§ 11.452
Possession of a controlled substance.
(a) It is unlawful for a person to knowingly or intentionally possess any controlled substance listed in 21 CFR Part 1308, as amended, unless:
(1) The Controlled Substances Act or Drug Enforcement Agency regulations specifically authorizes possession of the substance;
(2) The substance or preparation is excluded or exempted by 21 CFR 1308.21 through 1308.35, as amended; or
(3) The provisions of 42 U.S.C. 1996a (regarding traditional Indian religious use of peyote) apply.
(b) Violations of paragraph (a) of this section are punishable as a misdemeanor.
(c) Any controlled substance involved in violation of this section is declared to be contraband. Upon proof of a violation of this section, the controlled substance must be forfeited to the Federal Government by order of the court, after public notice and an opportunity for any person claiming an interest in the substance to be heard.
(d) Any personal property used to transport, conceal, manufacture, cultivate, or distribute a controlled substance in violation of this section is subject to forfeiture to the Federal Government by order of the court upon proof of this use, following public notice and opportunity for any person claiming an interest in the property to be heard.
[73 FR 39861, July 11, 2008]
§ 11.453
Prostitution or solicitation.
A person who commits prostitution or solicitation or who knowingly keeps, maintains, rents, or leases, any house, room, tent, or other place for the purpose of prostitution is guilty of a misdemeanor.
[73 FR 39861, July 11, 2008]
§ 11.454
Domestic violence.
(a) A person who commits domestic violence by inflicting physical harm, bodily injury, or sexual assault, or inflicting the fear of imminent physical harm, bodily injury, or sexual assault on a family member, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(b) For purposes of this section, a family member is any of the following:
(1) A spouse;
(2) A former spouse;
(3) A person related by blood;
(4) A person related by existing or prior marriage;
(5) A person who resides or resided with the defendant;
(6) A person with whom the defendant has a child in common; or
(7) A person with whom the defendant is or was in a dating or intimate relationship.
[73 FR 39861, July 11, 2008]

# Subpart E—Civil Actions
§ 11.500
Law applicable to civil actions.
(a) In all civil cases, the Magistrate of a Court of Indian Offenses shall have discretion to apply:
(1) Any laws of the United States that may be applicable;
(2) Any authorized regulations contained in the Code of Federal Regulations; and
(3) Any laws or customs of the tribe occupying the area of Indian country over which the court has jurisdiction
that are not prohibited by Federal laws.
(b) The delineation in paragraph (a) of this section does not establish a hierarchy relative to the applicability of specific law in specific cases.
(c) Where any doubt arises as to the customs of the tribe, the court may request the advice of counselors familiar with those customs.
(d) Any matters that are not covered by the laws or customs of the tribe, or by applicable Federal laws and regulations, may be decided by the Court of Indian Offenses according to the laws of the State in which the matter in dispute lies.
[73 FR 39862, July 11, 2008]
§ 11.501
Judgments in civil actions.
(a) In all civil cases, judgment shall consist of an order of the court awarding damages to be paid to the injured party, or directing the surrender of certain property to the injured party, or the performance of some other act for the benefit of the injured party, including injunctive relief and declaratory judgments.
(b) Where the injury inflicted was the result of carelessness of the defendant, the judgment shall fairly compensate the injured party for the loss he or she has suffered.
(c) Where the injury was deliberately inflicted, the judgment shall impose an additional penalty upon the defendant, which additional penalty may run either in favor of the injured party or in favor of the tribe.
(d) Where the injury was inflicted as a result of accident, or where both the complainant and the defendant were at fault, the judgment shall compensate the injured party for a reasonable part of the loss he or she has suffered.
(e) No judgment shall be given on any suit unless the defendant has actually received notice of such suit and ample opportunity to appear in court in his or her defense.
§ 11.502
Costs in civil actions.
(a) The court may assess the accruing costs of the case against the party or parties against whom judgment is given. Such costs shall consist of the expenses of voluntary witnesses for which either party may be responsible and the fees of jurors in those cases where a jury trial is had, and any further incidental expenses connected with the procedure before the court as the court may direct.
(b) In all civil suits the complainant may be required to deposit with the clerk of the court a fee or other security in a reasonable amount to cover costs and disbursements in the case.
§ 11.503
Applicable civil procedure.
The procedure to be followed in civil cases shall be the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure applicable to United States district courts, except insofar as such procedures are superseded by order of the Court of Indian Offenses or by the existence of inconsistent tribal rules of procedure.
§ 11.504
Applicable rules of evidence.
Courts of Indian Offenses shall be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence, except insofar as such rules are superseded by order of the Court of Indian Offenses, or by the existence of inconsistent tribal rules of evidence.

# Subpart F—Domestic Relations
§ 11.600
Marriages.
(a) A magistrate of the Court of Indian Offenses shall have the authority to perform marriages.
(b) A valid marriage shall be constituted by:
(1) The issuance of a marriage license by the Court of Indian Offenses and by execution of a consent to marriage by both parties to the marriage and recorded with the clerk of the court; or
(2) The recording of a tribal custom marriage with the Court of Indian Offenses within 30 days of the tribal custom marriage ceremony by the signing by both parties of a marriage register maintained by the clerk of the court.
(c) A marriage license application shall include the following information:
(1) Name, sex, occupation, address, social security number, and date and place of birth of each party to the proposed marriage;
(2) If either party was previously married, his or her name, and the date, place, and court in which the marriage was dissolved or declared invalid or the
date and place of death of the former spouse;
(3) Name and address of the parents or guardian of each party;
(4) Whether the parties are related to each other and, if so, their relationship; and
(5) The name and date of birth of any child of which both parties are parents, born before the making of the application, unless their parental rights and the parent and child relationship with respect to the child have been terminated.
(6) A certificate of the results of any medical examination required by either applicable tribal ordinances, or the laws of the State in which the Indian country under the jurisdiction of the Court of Indian Offenses is located.
§ 11.601
Marriage licenses.
A marriage license shall be issued by the clerk of the court in the absence of any showing that the proposed marriage would be invalid under any provision of this part or tribal custom, and upon written application of an unmarried male and unmarried female, both of whom must be eighteen (18) years or older. If either party to the marriage is under the age of eighteen (18), that party must have the written consent of parent or his or her legal guardian.
§ 11.602
Solemnization.
(a) In the event a judge, clergyman, tribal official or anyone authorized to do so solemnizes a marriage, he or she shall file with the clerk of the court certification thereof within thirty (30) days of the solemnization.
(b) Upon receipt of the marriage certificate, the clerk of the court shall register the marriage.
§ 11.603
Invalid or prohibited marriages.
(a) The following marriages are prohibited:
(1) A marriage entered into prior to the dissolution of an earlier marriage of one of the parties;
(2) A marriage between an ancestor and a descendant, or between a brother and a sister, whether the relationship is by the half or the whole blood;
(3) A marriage between an aunt and a nephew or between an uncle and a niece, whether the relationship is by the half or the whole blood, except as to marriages permitted by established tribal custom;
(4) A marriage prohibited by custom and usage of the tribe.
(b) Children born of a prohibited marriage are legitimate.
§ 11.604
Declaration of invalidity.
(a) The Court of Indian Offenses shall enter a decree declaring the invalidity of a marriage entered into under the following circumstances:
(1) A party lacked capacity to consent to the marriage, either because of mental incapacity or infirmity or by the influence of alcohol, drugs, or other incapacitating substances; or
(2) A party was induced to enter into a marriage by fraud or duress; or
(3) A party lacks the physical capacity to consummate the marriage by sexual intercourse and at the time the marriage was entered into, the other party did not know of the incapacity; or
(4) The marriage is prohibited under § 11.603.
(b) A declaration of invalidity may be sought by either party to the marriage or by the legal representative of the party who lacked capacity to consent.
§ 11.605
Dissolution.
(a) The Court of Indian Offenses shall enter a decree of dissolution of marriage if:
(1) The court finds that the marriage is irretrievably broken, if the finding is supported by evidence that (i) the parties have lived separate and apart for a period of more than 180 days next preceding the commencement of the proceeding, or (ii) there is serious marital discord adversely affecting the attitude of one or both of the parties towards the marriage;
(2) The court finds that either party, at the time the action was commenced, was domiciled within the Indian country under the jurisdiction of the court, and that the domicile has been maintained for 90 days next preceding the making of the findings; and
(3) To the extent it has jurisdiction to do so, the court has considered, approved, or provided for child custody,
the support of any child entitled to support, the maintenance of either spouse, and the disposition of property; or has provided for a separate later hearing to complete these matters.
(b) If a party requests a decree of legal separation rather than a decree of dissolution of marriage, the Court of Indian Offenses shall grant the decree in that form unless the other party objects.
§ 11.606
Dissolution proceedings.
(a) Either or both parties to the marriage may initiate dissolution proceedings.
(b) If a proceeding is commenced by one of the parties, the other party shall be served in the manner provided by the applicable rule of civil procedure and within thirty days after the date of service may file a verified response.
(c) The verified petition in a proceeding for dissolution of marriage or legal separation shall allege that the marriage is irretrievably broken and shall set forth:
(1) The age, occupation, and length of residence within the Indian country under the jurisdiction of the court of each party;
(2) The date of the marriage and the place at which it was registered;
(3) That jurisdictional requirements are met and that the marriage is irretrievably broken in that either (i) the parties have lived separate and apart for a period of more than 180 days next preceding the commencement of the proceeding or (ii) there is a serious marital discord adversely affecting the attitude of one or both of the parties toward the marriage, and there is no reasonable prospect of reconciliation;
(4) The names, age, and addresses of all living children of the marriage and whether the wife is pregnant;
(5) Any arrangement as to support, custody, and visitation of the children and maintenance of a spouse; and
(6) The relief sought.
§ 11.607
Temporary orders and temporary injunctions.
(a) In a proceeding for dissolution of marriage or for legal separation, either party may move for temporary maintenance or temporary support of a child of the marriage entitled to support. The motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit setting forth the factual basis for the motion and the amounts requested.
(b) As a part of a motion for temporary maintenance or support or by an independent motion accompanied by an affidavit, either party may request the Court of Indian Offenses to issue a temporary injunction for any of the following relief:
(1) Restraining any person from transferring, encumbering, concealing, or otherwise disposing of any property except in the usual course of business or for the necessities of life, and, if so restrained, requiring him or her to notify the moving party of any proposed extraordinary expenditures made after the order is issued;
(2) Enjoining a party from molesting or disturbing the peace of the other party or of any child;
(3) Excluding a party from the family home or from the home of the other party upon a showing that physical or emotional harm would otherwise result;
(4) Enjoining a party from removing a child from the jurisdiction of the court; and
(5) Providing other injunctive relief proper in the circumstances.
(c) The court may issue a temporary restraining order without requiring notice to the other party only if it finds on the basis of the moving affidavit or other evidence that irreparable injury will result to the moving party if no order is issued until the time for responding has elapsed.
(d) A response may be filed within 20 days after service of notice of a motion or at the time specified in the temporary restraining order.
(e) On the basis of the showing made, the Court of Indian Offenses may issue a temporary injunction and an order for temporary maintenance or support in amounts and on terms just and proper under the circumstances.
(f) A temporary order or temporary injunction:
(1) Does not prejudice the rights of the parties or the child which are to be adjudicated at subsequent hearings in a proceeding;
(2) May be revoked or modified before the final decree as deemed necessary by the court;
(3) Terminates when the final decree is entered or when the petition for dissolution or legal separation is voluntarily dismissed.
§ 11.608
Final decree; disposition of property; maintenance; child support; custody.
(a) A decree of dissolution of marriage or of legal separation is final when entered, subject to the right of appeal.
(b) The Court of Indian Offenses shall have the power to impose judgment as follows in dissolution or separation proceedings:
(1) Apportion or assign between the parties the non-trust property and non-trust assets belonging to either or both and whenever acquired, and whether the title thereto is in the name of the husband or wife or both;
(2) Grant a maintenance order for either spouse in amounts and for periods of time the court deems just;
(3) Order either or both parents owing a duty of support to a child to pay an amount reasonable or necessary for his or her support, without regard to marital misconduct, after considering all relevant factors. In addition:
(i) When a support order is issued by a Court of Indian Offenses, the order may provide that a portion of an absent parent's wages be withheld to comply with the order on the earliest of the following dates: When an amount equal to one month's support becomes overdue; when the absent parent requests withholding; or at such time as the Court of Indian Offenses selects. The amount to be withheld may include an amount to be applied toward liquidation of any overdue support.
(ii) If the Court of Indian Offenses finds that an absent parent who has been ordered to pay child support is now residing within the jurisdiction of another Court of Indian Offenses, an Indian tribal court, or a state court, it shall petition such court for reciprocal enforcement and provide it with a copy of the support order.
(iii) If the Court of Indian Offenses receives a petition from another Court of Indian Offenses, an Indian tribal court or a state court, it shall take necessary steps to determine paternity, establish an order for child support, register a foreign child support order or enforce orders as requested in the petition.
(iv) The Court of Indian Offenses shall assist a state in the enforcement and collection of past-due support from Federal tax refunds of absent parents living within the Indian country over which the court has jurisdiction.
(v) Any person or agency who has provided support or assistance to a child under 18 years of age shall be a proper person to bring an action under this section and to recover judgment in an amount equal to such past-paid support or assistance, including costs of bringing the action.
(4) Make child custody determinations in accordance with the best interest of the child.
(5) Restore the maiden name of the wife.
§ 11.609
Determination of paternity and support.
The Court of Indian Offenses shall have jurisdiction of all suits brought to determine the paternity of a child and to obtain a judgment for the support of the child. A judgment of the court establishing the identity of the father of the child shall be conclusive of that fact in all subsequent determinations of inheritance by the Court of Indian Offenses or by the Department of the Interior.
§ 11.610
Appointment of guardians.
The court shall have the jurisdiction to appoint or remove legal guardians for minors and for persons who are incapable of managing their own affairs under terms and conditions to be prescribed by the court.
§ 11.611
Change of name.
The Court of Indian Offenses shall have the authority to change the name of any person upon petition of such person or upon the petition of the parents of any minor, if at least one parent is Indian. Any order issued by the court for a change of name shall be kept as a permanent record and copies shall be filed with the agency superintendent, the governing body of the
tribe occupying the Indian country under the jurisdiction of the court, and any appropriate agency of the State in which the court is located.

# Subpart G—Probate Proceedings
§ 11.700
Probate jurisdiction.
The Court of Indian Offenses shall have jurisdiction to administer in probate the estate of a deceased Indian who, at the time of his or her death, was domiciled or owned real or personal property situated within the Indian country under the jurisdiction of the court to the extent that such estate consists of property which does not come within the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior.
§ 11.701
Duty to present will for probate.
Any custodian of a will shall deliver the same to the Court of Indian Offenses within 30 days after receipt of information that the maker thereof is deceased. Any custodian who fails to do so shall be liable for damages sustained by any person injured thereby.
§ 11.702
Proving and admitting will.
(a) Upon initiating the probate of an estate, the will of the decedent shall be filed with the court. Such will may be proven and admitted to probate by filing an affidavit of an attesting witness which identifies such will as being the will which the decedent executed and declared to be his or her last will. If the evidence of none of the attesting witnesses is available, the court may allow proof of the will by testimony that the signature of the testator is genuine.
(b) At any time within 90 days after a will has been admitted to probate, any person having an interest in the decedent's estate may contest the validity of such will. In the event of such contest, a hearing shall be held to determine the validity of such will.
(c) Upon considering all relevant information concerning the will, the Court of Indian Offenses shall enter an order affirming the admission of such will to probate, or rejecting such will and ordering that the probate of the decedent's estate proceed as if the decedent had died intestate.
§ 11.703
Petition and order to probate estate.
(a) Any person having an interest in the administration of an estate which is subject to the jurisdiction of the court may file a written petition with the court requesting that such estate be administered in probate.
(b) The Court of Indian Offenses shall enter an order directing that the estate be probated upon finding that the decedent was an Indian who, at the time of his or her death, was domiciled or owned real or personal property situated within the Indian country under the jurisdiction of the court other than trust or other restricted property, that the decedent left an estate subject to the jurisdiction of the court, and that it is necessary to probate such estate.
§ 11.704
Appointment and duties of executor or administrator.
(a) Upon ordering the estate to be probated, the court shall appoint an administrator to administer the estate of the decedent. The person nominated by the decedent's will, if any, to be the executor of the estate shall be so appointed, provided such person is willing to serve in such capacity.
(b) The executor or administrator appointed by the court shall have the following duties and powers during the administration of the estate and until discharged by the court:
(1) To send by certified mail true copies of the order to probate the estate and the will of the decedent admitted to probate by such order, if any, to each heir, devisee and legatee of the decedent, at their last known address, to the governing body of the tribe or tribes occupying the Indian country over which the court has jurisdiction, and to the agency superintendent;
(2) To preserve and protect the decedent's property within the estate and the heirs, so far as is possible;
(3) To investigate promptly all claims against the decedent's estate and determine their validity;
(4) To cause a written inventory of all the decedent's property within the estate to be prepared promptly with each article or item being separately set forth and cause such property to be
exhibited to and appraised by an appraiser, and the inventory and appraisal thereof to be filed with the court;
(5) To give promptly all persons entitled thereto such notice as is required under these proceedings;
(6) To account for all property within the estate which may come into his or her possession or control, and to maintain accurate records of all income received and disbursements made during the course of the administration.
§ 11.705
Removal of executor or administrator.
The Court of Indian Offenses may order the executor or administrator to show cause why he or she should not be discharged, and may discharge the executor or administrator for failure, neglect or improper performance of his or her duties.
§ 11.706
Appointment and duties of appraiser.
(a) Upon ordering an estate to be probated, the court shall appoint a disinterested and competent person as an appraiser to appraise all of the decedent's real and personal property within the estate.
(b) It shall be the duty of the appraiser to appraise separately the true cash value of each article or item of property within the estate, including debts due the decedent, and to indicate the appraised value of each such article or item of property set forth in the inventory of the estate and to certify such appraisal by subscribing his or her name to the inventory and appraisal.
§ 11.707
Claims against estate.
(a) Creditors of the estate or those having a claim against the decedent shall file their claim with the clerk of the court or with the executor or administrator within 60 days from official notice of the appointment of the executor or administrator published locally in the press or posting of signs at the tribal and agency offices, giving appropriate notice for the filing of claims.
(b) The executor or administrator shall examine all claims within 90 days of his or her appointment and notify the claimant whether his or her claim is accepted or rejected. If the claimant is notified of rejection, he or she may request a hearing before the court by filing a petition requesting such hearing within 30 days following the notice of rejection.
§ 11.708
Sale of property.
After filing the inventory and appraisal, the executor or administrator may petition the court for authority to sell personal property of the estate for purposes of paying the expenses of last illness and burial expenses, expenses of administration, claims, if any, against the estate, and for the purpose of distribution. If, in the court's judgment, such sale is in the best interest of the estate, the court shall order such sale and prescribe the terms upon which the property shall be sold.
§ 11.709
Final account.
(a) When the affairs of an estate have been fully administered, the executor or administrator shall file a final account with the court, verified by his or her oath. Such final account shall affirmatively set forth:
(1) That all claims against the estate have been paid, except as shown, and that the estate has adequate unexpended and unappropriated funds to fully pay such remaining claims;
(2) The amount of money received and expended by him or her, from whom received and to whom paid, referring to the vouchers for each of such payments;
(3) That there is nothing further to be done in the administration of the estate except as shown in the final account;
(4) The remaining assets of the estate, including unexpended and unappropriated money, at the time of filing the final account;
(5) The proposed determination of heirs and indicate the names, ages, addresses and relationship to the decedent of each distributee and the proposed distributive share and value thereof each heir, devisee or legatee is to receive; and
(6) A petition that the court set a date for conducting a hearing to approve the final account, to determine the heirs, devisees and legatees of the decedent and the distributive share each distributee is to receive.
§ 11.710
Determination of the court.
At the time set for hearing upon the final account, the Court of Indian Offenses shall proceed to examine all evidence relating to the distribution of the decedent's estate, and consider objections to the final account which may have been filed by any heir, devisee, legatee, or other person having an interest in the distribution of the estate. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the court shall enter an order:
(a) Providing for payment of approved claims;
(b) Determining the decedent's heirs, devisees and legatees, indicating the names, ages and addresses of each, and the distributive share of the remaining estate which each distributee is to receive; and
(c) Directing the administrator or executor to distribute such distributive share to those entitled thereto.
§ 11.711
Descent and distribution.
(a) The court shall distribute the estate according to the terms of the will of the decedent which has been admitted to probate.
(b) If the decedent died intestate or having left a will which has been rejected by the court, the estate shall be distributed as follows:
(1) According to the laws and customs of the tribe if such laws and customs are proved; or
(2) According to state law absent the existence of tribal laws or customs.
(c) If no person takes under the above subsections, the estate shall escheat to the tribe.
§ 11.712
Closing estate.
(a) Upon finding that the estate has been fully administered and is in a condition to be closed, the court shall enter an order closing the estate and discharging the executor or administrator.
(b) If an order closing the estate has not been entered by the end of nine months following appointment of executor or administrator, the executor or administrator shall file a written report with the court stating the reasons why the estate has not been closed.
§ 11.713
Small estates.
An estate having an appraised value which does not exceed $2,000.00 and which is to be inherited by a surviving spouse and/or minor children of the deceased may, upon petition of the executor or administrator, and a hearing before the court, be distributed without administration to those entitled thereto, upon which the estate shall be closed.

# Subpart H—Appellate Proceedings
§ 11.800
Jurisdiction of appellate division.
The jurisdiction of the appellate division shall extend to all appeals from final orders and judgments of the trial division, by any party except the prosecution in a criminal case where there has been a jury verdict. The appellate division shall review all issues of law presented to it which arose in the case, but shall not reverse the trial division decision unless the legal error committed affected a substantial right of a party or the outcome of the case.
§ 11.801
Procedure on appeal.
(a) An appeal must be taken within 15 days from the judgment appealed from by filing a written notice of appeal with the clerk of the court.
(b) The notice of appeal shall specify the party or parties taking the appeal, shall designate the judgment, or part thereof appealed from, and shall contain a short statement of reasons for the appeal. The clerk of the court shall mail a copy of the notice of appeal to all parties other than parties taking the appeal.
(c) In civil cases, other parties shall have 15 days to respond to the notice of appeal.
(d) In civil cases, the appellant may request the trial division to stay the judgment pending action on the notice of appeal, and, if the appeal is allowed, either party may request the trial division to grant or stay an injunction pending appeal. The trial division may condition a stay or injunction pending appeal on the depositing of cash or bond sufficient to cover damages
awarded by the court together with interest.
§ 11.802
Judgment against surety.
Any surety to a bond submits himself or herself to the jurisdiction of the Court of Indian Offenses, and irrevocably appoints the clerk of the court as his or her agent upon whom any papers affecting his or her liability on the bond may be served.
§ 11.803
Record on appeal.
Within 20 days after a notice of appeal is filed, the clerk of court shall certify and file with the appellate division the record of the case.
§ 11.804
Briefs and memoranda.
(a) Within 30 days after the notice of appeal is filed, the appellant may file a written brief in support of his or her appeal. An original and one copy for each appellee shall be filed with the clerk of court who shall mail one copy by registered or certified mail to each appellee.
(b) The appellee shall have 30 days after receipt of the appellant's brief within which to file an answer brief. An original and one copy for each appellant shall be filed with the clerk of the court who shall mail one copy, by registered or certified mail, to each appellant.
§ 11.805
Oral argument.
The appellate division shall assign all criminal cases for oral argument. The court may in its discretion assign civil cases for oral argument or may dispose of civil cases on the briefs without argument.
§ 11.806
Rules of court.
The chief magistrate of the appellate division shall prescribe all necessary rules concerning the operation of the appellate division and the time and place of meeting of the court.

# Subpart I—Children's Court
§ 11.900
Definitions.
For purposes of sections pertaining to the children's court:
(a)
Abandon
means the leaving of a minor without communication or failing to support a minor for a period of one year or more with no indication of the parents' willingness to assume a parental role.
(b)
Adult
means a person eighteen (18) years or older.
(c)
Counsel
means an attorney admitted to the bar of a state or the District of Columbia or a lay advocate admitted to practice before the Court of Indian Offenses.
(d)
Custodian
means one who has physical custody of a minor and who is providing food, shelter and supervision to the minor.
(e)
Custody
means the power to control the day-to-day activities of the minor.
(f)
Delinquent act
means an act which, if committed by an adult, would be designated a crime under this part or under an ordinance of the tribe.
(g)
Detention
means the placement of a minor in a physically restrictive facility.
(h)
Guardian
means a person other than the minor's parent who is by law responsible for the care of the minor.
(i)
Guardian ad Litem
means a person appointed by the court to represent the minor's interests before the court.
(j)
Juvenile offender
means a person who commits a delinquent act prior to his or her eighteenth birthday.
(k)
Minor
means:
(1) A person under 18 years of age,
(2) A person 18 years of age or older concerning whom proceedings are commenced in the children's court prior to his or her eighteenth birthday, or
(3) A person 18 years of age or older who is under the continuing jurisdiction of the children's court.
(l)
Minor-in-need-of-care
means a minor who:
(1) Has no parent or guardian available and willing to take care of him or her;
(2) Is unwilling to allow his or her parent or guardian to take care of him or her;
(3) Has suffered or is likely to suffer a physical or emotional injury, inflicted by other than accidental means, which causes or creates a substantial risk of death, disfigurement, impairment of bodily functions or emotional health;
(4) Has not been provided with adequate food, clothing, shelter, medical care, education or supervision by his or her parent, guardian or custodian;
(5) Has been sexually abused;
(6) Has been committing delinquent acts as a result of parental pressure, guidance or approval; or,
(7) Has been committing status offenses.
(m)
Status offense
means an offense which, if committed by an adult, would not be designated a crime under this part or under an ordinance of the tribe.
§ 11.901
The children's court established.
When conducting proceedings under §§ 11.900-11.1114 of this part, the Court of Indian Offenses shall be known as the “Children's Court”.
§ 11.902
Non-criminal proceedings.
No adjudication upon the status of any minor in the jurisdiction of the children's court shall be deemed criminal or be deemed a conviction of a crime, unless the children's court refers the matter to the Court of Indian Offenses. Neither the disposition nor evidence given before the children's court shall be admissible as evidence against the child in any proceeding in another court.
§ 11.903
Presenting officer.
(a) The agency superintendent and the chief magistrate of the children's court shall jointly appoint a presenting officer to carry out the duties and responsibilities set forth under §§ 11.900-11.1114 of this part. The presenting officer's qualifications shall be the same as the qualifications for the official who acts as prosecutor for the Court of Indian Offenses. The presenting officer may be the same person who acts as prosecutor in the Court of Indian Offenses.
(b) The presenting officer shall represent the tribe in all proceedings under §§ 11.900-11.1114 of this part.
§ 11.904
Guardian ad litem.
The children's court, under any proceeding authorized by this part, shall appoint, for the purposes of the proceeding, a guardian ad litem for a minor, where the court finds that the minor does not have a natural or adoptive parent, guardian or custodian willing and able to exercise effective guardianship, or where the parent, guardian, or custodian has been accused of abusing or neglecting the minor.
§ 11.905
Jurisdiction.
The children's court has exclusive, original jurisdiction of the following proceedings:
(a) Proceedings in which a minor who resides in a community for which the court is established is alleged to be a juvenile offender, unless the children's court transfers jurisdiction to the Court of Indian Offenses pursuant to § 11.907 of this part.
(b) Proceedings in which a minor who resides in a community for which the court is established is alleged to be a minor-in-need-of-care.
§ 11.906
Rights of parties.
(a) In all hearings and proceedings under §§ 11.900-11.1114 of this part the following rights will be observed unless modified by the particular section describing a hearing or proceeding:
(1) Notice of the hearing or proceeding shall be given the minor, his or her parents, guardian or custodian and their counsel. The notice shall be delivered by certified mail. The notice shall contain:
(i) The name of the court;
(ii) The title of the proceeding; and
(iii) The date, time and place of the proceeding.
(b) The children's court magistrate shall inform the minor and his or her parents, guardian or custodian of their right to retain counsel, and, in juvenile delinquency proceedings, shall tell them: “You have a right to have a lawyer or other person represent you at this proceeding. If you cannot afford to hire counsel, the court will appoint counsel for you.”
(c) If the children's court magistrate believes there is a potential conflict of interest between the minor and his or her parents, guardian, or custodian with respect to legal representation, the court shall appoint another person to act as counsel for the minor.
(d) The minor need not be a witness against, nor otherwise incriminate, himself or herself.
(e) The children's court shall give the minor, and the minor's parent, guardian or custodian the opportunity to introduce evidence, to be heard on their own behalf and to examine witnesses.
§ 11.907
Transfer to Court of Indian Offenses.
(a) The presenting officer or the minor may file a petition requesting the children's court to transfer the minor to the Court of Indian Offenses if the minor is 14 years of age or older and is alleged to have committed an act that would have been considered a crime if committed by an adult.
(b) The children's court shall conduct a hearing to determine whether jurisdiction of the minor should be transferred to the Court of Indian Offenses.
(1) The transfer hearing shall be held no more than 30 days after the petition is filed.
(2) Written notice of the transfer hearing shall be given to the minor and the minor's parents, guardian or custodian at least 72 hours prior to the hearing.
(c) All the rights listed in § 11.906 shall be afforded the parties at the transfer hearing.
(d) The following factors shall be considered when determining whether to transfer jurisdiction of the minor to the Court of Indian Offenses:
(1) The nature and seriousness of the offense with which the minor is charged.
(2) The nature and condition of the minor, as evidenced by his or her age; mental and physical condition; past record of offenses; and responses to past children's court efforts at rehabilitation.
(e) The children's court may transfer jurisdiction of the minor to the Court of Indian Offenses if the children's court finds clear and convincing evidence that both of the following circumstances exist:
(1) There are no reasonable prospects for rehabilitating the minor through resources available to the children's court; and
(2) The offense allegedly committed by the minor evidences a pattern of conduct which constitutes a substantial danger to the public.
(f) When a minor is transferred to the Court of Indian Offenses, the children's court shall issue a written transfer order containing reasons for its order. The transfer order constitutes a final order for purposes of appeal.
§ 11.908
Court records.
(a) A record of all hearings under §§ 11.900-11.1114 of this part shall be made and preserved.
(b) All children's court records shall be confidential and shall not be open to inspection to anyone but the minor, the minor's parents or guardian, the presenting officer, or others by order of the children's court.
§ 11.909
Law enforcement records.
(a) Law enforcement records and files concerning a minor shall be kept separate from the records and files of adults.
(b) All law enforcement records and files shall be confidential and shall not be open to inspection to anyone but the minor, the minor's parents or guardian, the presenting officer, or others by order of the children's court.
§ 11.910
Expungement.
When a minor who has been the subject of any proceeding before the children's court attains his or her twenty-first birthday, the children's court magistrate shall order the court records and the law enforcement records pertaining to the minor to be destroyed, except for adoption records which shall not be destroyed under any circumstances.
§ 11.911
Appeal.
(a) For purposes of appeal, a record of the proceedings shall be made available to the minor and parents, guardian or custodian. Costs of obtaining the record shall be paid by the party seeking the appeal.
(b) Any party to a children's court hearing may appeal a final order or disposition of the case by filing a written notice of appeal with the children's court within 30 days of the final order of disposition.
(c) No decree or disposition of a hearing shall be stayed by such appeal.
(d) All appeals shall be conducted in accordance with this part.
§ 11.912
Contempt of court.
Any willful disobedience or interference with any order of the children's court constitutes contempt of court which may be punished in accordance with this part.

# Subpart J—Juvenile Offender Procedure
§ 11.1000
Complaint.
A complaint must be filed by a law enforcement officer or by the presenting officer and sworn to by a person who has knowledge of the facts alleged. The complaint shall be signed by the complaining witness, and shall contain:
(a) A citation to the specific section(s) of this part which gives the children's court jurisdiction of the proceedings;
(b) A citation to the section(s) of this part which the minor is alleged to have violated;
(c) The name, age, and address of the minor who is the subject of the complaint, if known; and
(d) A plain and concise statement of the facts upon which the allegations are based, including the date, time, and location at which the alleged facts occurred.
§ 11.1001
Warrant.
The children's court may issue a warrant directing that a minor be taken into custody if the court finds there is probable cause to believe the minor committed the delinquent act alleged in the complaint.
§ 11.1002
Custody.
A minor may be taken into custody by a law enforcement officer if:
(a) The officer observes the minor committing a delinquent act; or
(b) The officer has reasonable grounds to believe a delinquent act has been committed that would be a crime if committed by an adult, and that the minor has committed the delinquent act; or
(c) A warrant pursuant to § 11.1001 has been issued for the minor.
§ 11.1003
Law enforcement officer's duties.
A law enforcement officer who takes a minor into custody pursuant to § 11.1002 of this part shall:
(a) Give the following warnings to any minor taken into custody prior to any questioning:
(1) The minor has a right to remain silent;
(2) Anything the minor says can be used against the minor in court;
(3) The minor has the right to the presence of counsel during questioning; and
(4) If he or she cannot afford counsel, the court will appoint one.
(b) Release the minor to the minor's parent, guardian, or custodian and issue a verbal advice or warning as may be appropriate, unless shelter care or detention is necessary.
(c) If the minor is not released, make immediate and recurring efforts to notify the minor's parents, guardian, or custodian to inform them that the minor has been taken into custody and inform them of their right to be present with the minor until an investigation to determine the need for shelter care or detention is made by the court.
§ 11.1004
Detention and shelter care.
(a) A minor alleged to be a juvenile offender may be detained, pending a court hearing, in the following places:
(1) A foster care facility approved by the tribe;
(2) A detention home approved by the tribe; or
(3) A private family home approved by the tribe.
(b) A minor who is 16 years of age or older may be detained in a jail facility used for the detention of adults only if:
(1) A facility in paragraph (a) of this section is not available or would not assure adequate supervision of the minor;
(2) The minor is housed in a separate room from the detained adults; and
(3) Routine inspection of the room where the minor is housed is conducted every 30 minutes to assure his or her safety and welfare.
§ 11.1005
Preliminary inquiry.
(a) If a minor is placed in detention or shelter care, the children's court shall conduct a preliminary inquiry within 24 hours for the purpose of determining:
(1) Whether probable cause exist to believe the minor committed the alleged delinquent act; and
(2) Whether continued detention or shelter care is necessary pending further proceedings.
(b) If a minor has been released to the parents, guardian or custodian, the children's court shall conduct a preliminary inquiry within three days after receipt of the complaint for the sole purpose of determining whether probable cause exists to believe the minor committed the alleged delinquent act.
(c) If the minor's parents, guardian or custodian is not present at the preliminary inquiry, the children's court shall determine what efforts have been made to notify and to obtain the presence of the parents, guardian, or custodian. If it appears that further efforts are likely to produce the parents, guardian or custodian, the children's court shall recess for no more than 24 hours and direct that continued efforts be made to obtain the presence of parents, guardian or custodian.
(d) All the rights listed in § 11.906 shall be afforded the parties in a preliminary inquiry.
(e) The children's court shall hear testimony concerning:
(1) The circumstances that gave rise to the complaint or the taking of the minor into custody; and
(2) The need for detention or shelter care.
(f) If the children's court finds that probable cause exists to believe the minor performed the delinquent act, the minor shall be released to the parents, guardian or custodian, and ordered to appear at the adjudicatory hearing unless:
(1) The act is serious enough to warrant continued detention or shelter care;
(2) There is reasonable cause to believe the minor will run away and be unavailable for further proceedings; or
(3) There is reasonable cause to believe that the minor will commit a serious act causing damage to person or property.
(g) The children's court may release a minor pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section to a relative or other responsible adult tribal member if the parent, guardian, or custodian of the minor consents to the release. If the minor is ten years of age or older, the minor and the parents, guardian or custodian must both consent to the release.
(h) Upon a finding that probable cause exists to believe that the minor has committed the alleged delinquent act and that there is need for detention or shelter care, the minor's detention or shelter care shall be continued. Otherwise, the complaint shall be dismissed and the minor released.
§ 11.1006
Investigation by the presenting officer.
(a) The presenting officer shall make an investigation following the preliminary inquiry or the release of the minor to his or her parents, guardian or custodian to determine whether the interests of the minor and the public require that further action be taken. Upon the basis of this investigation, the presenting officer may:
(1) Determine that no further action be taken;
(2) Begin transfer proceedings to the Court of Indian Offenses pursuant to § 11.907 of this part; or
(3) File a petition pursuant to § 11.1007 of this part to initiate further proceedings. The petition shall be filed within 48 hours of the preliminary inquiry if the minor is in detention or shelter care. If the minor has been previously released to his or her parents, guardian or custodian, relative or responsible adult, the petition shall be filed within ten days of the preliminary inquiry.
§ 11.1007
Petition.
(a) Proceedings under §§ 11.1000-11.1014 of this part shall be instituted by a petition filed by the presenting officer on behalf of the tribe and in the interests of the minor. The petition shall state:
(1) The name, birth date, and residence of the minor;
(2) The names and residences of the minor's parents, guardian or custodian;
(3) A citation to the specific section(s) of this part which gives the children's court jurisdiction of the proceedings;
(4) A citation to the section(s) of this part which the minor is alleged to have violated; and
(5) If the minor is in detention or shelter care, the time the minor was taken into custody.
§ 11.1008
Date of hearing.
Upon receipt of the petition, the children's court shall set a date for the hearing which shall not be more than 15 days after the children's court receives the petition from the presenting officer. If the adjudicatory hearing is not held within 15 days after filing of the petition, the petition shall be dismissed and cannot be filed again, unless;
(a) The hearing is continued upon motion of the minor; or
(b) The hearing is continued upon motion of the presenting officer by reason of the unavailability of material evidence or witnesses and the children's court finds the presenting officer has exercised due diligence to obtain the material evidence or witnesses and reasonable grounds exist to believe that the material evidence or witnesses will become available.
§ 11.1009
Summons.
(a) At least five working days prior to the adjudicatory hearing, the children's court shall issue summons to:
(1) The minor;
(2) The minor's parents, guardian or custodian; and
(3) Any person the children's court or the minor believes necessary for the adjudication of the hearing.
(b) The summons shall contain the name of the court, the title of the proceedings, and the date, time and place of the hearing.
(c) A copy of the petition shall be attached to the summons.
(d) The summons shall be delivered personally by a law enforcement officer or appointee of the children's court. If the summons cannot be delivered personally, the court may deliver it by certified mail.
§ 11.1010
Adjudicatory hearing.
(a) The children's court shall conduct the adjudicatory hearing for the sole purpose of determining the guilt or innocence of the minor. The hearing shall be private and closed.
(b) All the rights listed in § 11.906 shall be afforded the parties at the adjudicatory hearing. The notice requirements of § 11.906(a) are met by a summons issued pursuant to § 11.1009.
(c) If the minor admits the allegations of the petition, the children's court shall proceed to the dispositional stage only if the children's court finds that:
(1) The minor fully understands his or her rights as set forth in § 11.906 of this part and fully understands the potential consequences of admitting the allegations;
(2) The minor voluntarily, intelligently and knowingly admits to all facts necessary to constitute a basis for children's court action; and
(3) The minor has not, in the purported admission to the allegations, set forth facts which, if found to be true, constitute a defense to the allegations.
(d) The children's court shall hear testimony concerning the circumstances which gave rise to the complaint.
(e) If the allegations of the petition are sustained by proof beyond a reasonable doubt, the children's court shall find the minor to be a juvenile offender and proceed to the dispositional hearing.
(f) A finding that a minor is a juvenile offender constitutes a final order for purposes of appeal.
§ 11.1011
Dispositional hearing.
(a) A dispositional hearing shall take place not more than 15 days after the adjudicatory hearing.
(b) At the dispositional hearing, the children's court shall hear evidence on the question of proper disposition.
(c) All the rights listed in § 11.906 shall be afforded the parties in the dispositional hearing.
(d) At the dispositional hearing, the children's court shall consider any predisposition report, physician's report or social study it may have ordered and afford the parents an opportunity to controvert the factual contents and
conclusions of the reports. The children's court shall also consider the alternative predisposition report prepared by the minor and his or her attorney, if any.
(e) The dispositional order constitutes a final order for purposes of appeal.
§ 11.1012
Dispositional alternatives.
(a) If a minor has been adjudged a juvenile offender, the children's court may make the following disposition:
(1) Place the minor on probation subject to conditions set by the children's court;
(2) Place the minor in an agency or institution designated by the children's court; or
(3) Order restitution to the aggrieved party.
(b) The dispositional orders are to be in effect for the time limit set by the children's court, but no order may continue after the minor reaches 18 years of age, unless the dispositional order was made within six months of the minor's eighteenth birthday or after the minor had reached 18 years of age, in which case the disposition may not continue for more than six months.
(c) The dispositional order is to be reviewed at the children's court discretion, but at least once every six months.
§ 11.1013
Modification of dispositional order.
(a) A dispositional order of the children's court may be modified upon a showing of a change of circumstances.
(b) The children's court may modify a dispositional order at any time upon the motion of the minor or the minor's parents, guardian or custodian.
(c) If the modification involves a change of custody, the children's court shall conduct a hearing pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.
(d) A hearing to review a dispositional order shall be conducted as follows:
(1) All the rights listed in § 11.906 shall be afforded the parties in the hearing to review the dispositional order. The notice required by paragraph (a) of § 11.906 shall be given at least 48 hours before the hearing.
(2) The children's court shall review the performance of the minor, the minor's parents, guardian or custodian, and other persons providing assistance to the minor and the minor's family.
(3) In determining modification of disposition, the procedures prescribed in § 11.1011 of this part shall apply.
(4) If the request for review of disposition is based upon an alleged violation of a court order, the children's court shall not modify its dispositional order unless it finds clear and convincing evidence of the violation.
§ 11.1014
Medical examination.
The children's court may order a medical examination for a minor who is alleged to be a juvenile offender.

# Subpart K—Minor-in-Need-of-Care Procedure
§ 11.1100
Complaint.
A complaint must be filed by a law enforcement officer or by the presenting officer and sworn to by a person who has knowledge of the facts alleged. The complaint shall be signed by the complaining witness and shall contain:
(a) A citation to the specific section of this part which gives the children's court jurisdiction of the proceedings;
(b) The name, age and address of the minor who is the subject of the complaint, if known; and
(c) A plain and concise statement of the facts upon which the allegations are based, including the date, time and location at which the alleged facts occurred.
§ 11.1101
Warrant.
The children's court may issue a warrant, directing that a minor be taken into custody if the children's court finds there is probable cause to believe the minor is a minor-in-need-of-care.
§ 11.1102
Custody.
A minor may be taken into custody by a law enforcement officer if:
(a) The officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the minor is a minor-in-need-of-care and that the minor is in immediate danger from his
or her surroundings and that removal is necessary; or
(b) A warrant pursuant to § 11.1101 of this part has been issued for the minor.
§ 11.1103
Law enforcement officer's duties.
Upon taking a minor into custody the officer shall:
(a) Release the minor to the minor's parents, guardian or custodian and issue a verbal advice or warning as may be appropriate, unless shelter care is necessary.
(b) If the minor is not released, make immediate and recurring efforts to notify the minor's parents, guardian or custodian to inform them that the minor has been taken into custody and inform them of their right to be present with the minor until an investigation to determine the need for shelter care is made by the children's court.
§ 11.1104
Shelter care.
(a) A minor alleged to be a minor-in-need-of-care may be detained, pending a court hearing, in the following places:
(1) A foster care facility authorized under tribal or state law to provide foster care, group care or protective residence;
(2) A private family home approved by the tribe; or
(3) A shelter care facility operated by a licensed child welfare services agency and approved by the tribe.
(b) A minor alleged to be a minor-in-need-of care may not be detained in a jail or other facility used for the detention of adults. If such minor is detained in a facility used for the detention of juvenile offenders, he or she must be detained in a room separate from juvenile offenders, and routine inspection of the room where the minor is detained must be conducted every 30 minutes to assure his or her safety and welfare.
§ 11.1105
Preliminary inquiry.
(a) If a minor is placed in shelter care, the children's court shall conduct a preliminary inquiry with 24 hours for the purpose of determining:
(1) Whether probable cause exists to believe the minor is a minor-in-need-of care; and
(2) Whether continued shelter care is necessary pending further proceedings.
(b) If a minor has been released to the parents, guardian or custodian, the children's court shall conduct a preliminary inquiry within three days after receipt of the complaint for the sole purpose of determining whether probable cause exists to believe the minor is a minor-in-need-of-care.
(c) If the minor's parents, guardian or custodian is not present at the preliminary inquiry, the children's court shall determine what efforts have been made to notify and obtain the presence of the parent, guardian or custodian. If it appears that further efforts are likely to produce the parent, guardian or custodian, the children's court shall recess for no more than 24 hours and direct that continued efforts be made to obtain the presence of the parents, guardian or custodian.
(d) All the rights listed in § 11.906 of this part shall be afforded the parties in the minor-in-need-of care preliminary inquiry except that the court is not required to appoint counsel if the parties cannot afford one. Notice of the inquiry shall be given to the minor, and his or her parents, guardian or custodian and their counsel as soon as the time for the inquiry has been established.
(e) The children's court shall hear testimony concerning:
(1) The circumstances that gave rise to the complaint or the taking of the minor into custody; and
(2) The need for shelter care.
(f) If the children's court finds that probable cause exists to believe the minor is a minor-in-need-of-care, the minor shall be released to the parents, guardian or custodian, and ordered to appear at the adjudicatory hearing, unless:
(1) There is reasonable cause to believe that the minor will run away and be unavailable for further proceedings;
(2) There is reasonable cause to believe that the minor is in immediate danger from parents, guardian or custodian and that removal from them is necessary; or
(3) There is a reasonable cause to believe that the minor will commit a serious act causing damage to person or property.
(g) The children's court may release the minor pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section to a relative or other responsible adult tribal member if the parents, guardian or custodian of the minor consent to the release. If the minor is ten years to age or older, the minor and the parents, guardian or custodian must both consent to the release.
(h) Upon finding that probable cause exists to believe that the minor is a minor-in-need-of-care and that there is a need for shelter care, the minor's shelter care shall be continued. Otherwise, the complaint shall be dismissed and the minor released.
§ 11.1106
Investigation by the presenting officer.
The presenting officer shall make an investigation following the preliminary inquiry or the release of the minor to the parents, guardian or custodian to determine whether the interests of the minor and the public require that further action be taken. Upon the basis of this investigation, the presenting officer may:
(a) Determine that no further action be taken; or
(b) File a petition pursuant to § 11.1107 of this part in the children's court to initiate further proceedings. The petition shall be filed within 48 hours of the preliminary inquiry if the minor is in shelter care. If the minor has been previously released to the parents, guardian or custodian, relative or responsible adult, the petition shall be filed within ten days of the preliminary inquiry.
§ 11.1107
Petition.
Proceedings under §§ 11.1100-11.1114 of this part shall be instituted by a petition filed by the presenting officer on behalf of the tribe and the interests of the minor. The petition shall state:
(a) The name, birth date, and residence of the minor;
(b) The names and residences of the minor's parents, guardian or custodian;
(c) A citation to the specific section of this part which gives the children's court jurisdiction of the proceedings; and
(d) If the minor is in shelter care, the place of shelter care and the time he or she was taken into custody.
§ 11.1108
Date of hearing.
Upon receipt of the minor-in-need-of-care petition, the children's court shall set a date for the hearing which shall not be more than 15 days after the children's court receives the petition from the presenting officer. If the adjudicatory hearing is not held within 15 days after the filing of the petition, it shall be dismissed unless;
(a) The hearing is continued upon motion of the minor; or
(b) The hearing is continued upon motion of the presenting officer by reason of the unavailability of material evidence or witnesses and the children's court finds the presenting officer has exercised due diligence to obtain the material evidence or witnesses and reasonable grounds exist to believe that the material evidence or witnesses will become available.
§ 11.1109
Summons.
(a) At least five working days prior to the adjudicatory hearing for a minor-in-need-of-care, the children's court shall issue summons to:
(1) The minor;
(2) The minor's parents, guardian or custodian; and
(3) Any person the children's court or the minor believes necessary for the proper adjudication of the hearing.
(b) The summons shall contain the name of the court; the title of the proceedings, and the date, time and place of the hearing.
(c) A copy of the petition shall be attached to the summons.
(d) The summons shall be delivered personally by a tribal law enforcement officer or appointee of the children's court. If the summons cannot be delivered personally, the court may deliver it by certified mail.
§ 11.1110
Minor-in-need-of-care adjudicatory hearing.
(a) The children's court shall conduct the adjudicatory hearing for the sole purpose of determining whether the
minor is a minor-in-need-of-care. The hearing shall be private and closed.
(b) All the rights listed in § 11.906 of this part shall be afforded the parties in the adjudicatory hearing, except that the court may not appoint counsel if the parties cannot afford one. The notice requirements of § 11.906(a) are met by a summons issued pursuant to § 11.1109.
(c) The children's court shall hear testimony concerning the circumstances which gave rise to the complaint.
(d) If the circumstances of the petition are sustained by clear and convincing evidence, the children's court shall find the minor to be a minor-in-need-of-care and proceed to the dispositional hearing.
(e) A finding that a minor is a minor-in-need-of-care constitutes a final order for purposes of appeal.
§ 11.1111
Minor-in-need-of-care dispositional hearing.
(a) No later than 15 days after the adjudicatory hearing, a dispositional hearing shall take place to hear evidence on the question of proper disposition.
(b) All the rights listed in § 11.906 of this part shall be afforded the parties in the dispositional hearing except the right to free court-appointed counsel. Notice of the hearing shall be given to the parties at least 48 hours before the hearing.
(c) At the dispositional hearing the children's court shall consider any predisposition report or other study it may have ordered and afford the parties an opportunity to controvert the factual contents and conclusions of the reports. The children's court shall also consider the alternative predisposition report prepared by the minor and his or her attorney, if any.
(d) The dispositional order constitutes a final order for purposes of appeal.
§ 11.1112
Dispositional alternatives.
(a) If a minor has been adjudged a minor-in-need-of-care, the children's court may:
(1) Permit the minor to remain with his or her parents, guardian or custodian subject to such limitations and conditions as the court may prescribe; or, if reasonable efforts to have the minor return or remain in his or her own home are unsuccessful, the children's court may make whichever of the following dispositions is in the best interest of the minor;
(2) Place the minor with a relative within the boundaries of the reservation subject to such limitations and conditions as the court may prescribe;
(3) Place the minor in a foster home within the boundaries of the reservation which has been approved by the tribe subject to such limitations and conditions as the court may prescribe;
(4) Place the minor in shelter care facilities designated by the court;
(5) Place the minor in a foster home or a relative's home outside the boundaries of the reservation subject to such limitations and conditions as the court may prescribe; or
(6) Recommend that termination proceedings begin.
(b) Whenever a minor is placed in a home or facility located outside the boundaries of the reservation, the court may require the party receiving custody of the minor to sign an agreement that the minor will be returned to the court upon order of the court.
(c) The dispositional orders are to be in effect for the time limit set by the children's court, but no order may continue after the minor reaches 18 years of age, unless the dispositional order was made within six months of the minor's eighteenth birthday, in which case the disposition may not continue for more than six months.
(d) The dispositional orders are to be reviewed at the children's court discretion, but at least once every six months to determine the continuing need for and appropriateness of placement, to determine the extent of progress made, and to assess the probability of the minor's return to his or her home.
(e) A permanency planning hearing must be held within 18 months after the original placement and every six months thereafter to determine the future status of the minor except when the minor is returned to his or her home and court supervision ceases.
§ 11.1113
Modification of dispositional order.
(a) A dispositional order of the children's court may be modified upon a showing of a change of circumstances.
(b) The children's court may modify a dispositional order at any time upon motion of the minor or the minor's parents, guardian or custodian.
(c) If the modification involves a change of custody, the children's court shall conduct a hearing pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section to review the dispositional order.
(d) A hearing to review a dispositional order shall be conducted as follows:
(1) All the rights listed in § 11.906 of this part shall be afforded the parties in the review of the disposition hearing except the right to free court-appointed counsel. Notice of the hearing shall be given the parties at least 48 hours before the hearing.
(2) The children's court shall review the performance of the minor, the minor's parents, guardian or custodian, and other persons providing assistance to the minor and the minor's family.
(3) In determining modification of disposition, the procedures prescribed in § 11.1111 of this part shall apply.
(4) If the request for review of disposition is based upon an alleged violation of a court order, the children's court shall not modify its dispositional order unless it finds clear and convincing evidence of the violation.
§ 11.1114
Termination.
(a) Parental rights to a child may be terminated by the children's court according to the procedures in this section.
(b) Proceedings to terminate parental rights shall be instituted by a petition filed by the presenting officer on behalf of the tribe or by the parents or guardian of the child. The petition shall state:
(1) The name, birth date, and residence of the minor;
(2) The names and residences of the minor's parents, guardian or custodian;
(3) If the child is in detention or shelter care, the place of detention or shelter care and the time he was taken into custody; and
(4) The reasons for the petition.
(c) Upon receipt of the petition, the children's court shall set a date for the termination hearing which shall not be more than 15 days after the children's court receives the petition from the presenting officer. The hearing may be continued:
(1) On motion of the minor's parents, guardian or custodian; or
(2) Upon motion of the presenting officer by reason of the unavailability of material evidence or witnesses and the children's court finds the presenting officer has exercised due diligence to obtain the material evidence or witnesses and reasonable grounds exist to believe that the material evidence or witnesses will become available.
(d) Summons:
(1) At least five working days prior to the termination hearing, the children's court shall issue summons to the minor, the minor's parents, guardian or custodian, and any other person the court or the minor's parents, guardian or custodian believes necessary for the proper adjudication of the hearing.
(2) The summons shall contain the name of the court, the title of the proceedings, and the date, time and place of the hearing.
(3) A copy of the petition shall be attached to the summons.
(4) The summons shall be delivered personally by a law enforcement officer or appointee of the children's court. If the summons cannot be delivered personally, the court may deliver it by certified mail.
(e) The children's court shall conduct the termination hearing for the sole purpose of determining whether parental rights shall be terminated. The hearing shall be private and closed.
(1) All the rights listed in § 11.906 shall be afforded the parties in the termination hearing except the right to a free court-appointed counsel. The minor's parents may not be compelled to be witnesses against, nor otherwise incriminate themselves.
(2) The children's court shall hear testimony concerning the circumstances that gave rise to the petition, and the need for termination of parental rights.
(3) The children's court may terminate parental rights if, following efforts to prevent or eliminate the need
to remove the minor, it finds such efforts to have been unsuccessful, and it finds beyond a reasonable doubt that:
(i) The child has been abandoned;
(ii) The minor has suffered physical injuries, willfully and repeatedly inflicted by his or her parent(s) which cause or create a substantial risk of death, disfigurement, or impairment of bodily functions;
(iii) The parent(s) has subjected the minor to willful and repeated acts of sexual abuse;
(iv) The minor has suffered serious emotional or mental harm due to the act of the parent(s); or
(v) The voluntary written consent of both parents has been acknowledged before the court.
(f) Dispositional alternatives:
(1) If parental rights to a child are terminated, the children's court shall place the minor in a foster care or shelter care facility which has been approved by the tribe, and follow the adoption procedures of the tribe, or, in their absence, the adoption procedures of the state within which it is located.
(2) If parental rights to a child are not terminated, the children's court shall make a disposition according to § 11.1112 of this part.
(g) The termination order constitutes a final order for purposes of appeal.
(h) No adjudication of termination of parental rights shall affect the minor's enrollment status as a member of any tribe or the minor's degree of blood quantum of any tribe.
§ 11.1115
Information collection.
(a) The information collection requirements contained in § 11.600 and § 11.606 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.,
and assigned approval number 1076-0094. The information is being collected to obtain a marriage license (§ 11.600) and a divorce decree (§ 11.606) from the Courts of Indian Offenses, and will be used by the courts to issue a marriage license or divorce decree. Response to this request is required to obtain a benefit.
(b) Public reporting for this information collection is estimated to average .25 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the information collection. Direct comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this information collection to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Information Collection Clearance Officer, Room 336-SIB, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs [Project 1076-0094], Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20502.

# Subpart L—Child Protection and Domestic Violence Procedures

# Source:
73 FR 39862, July 11, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 11.1200
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Domestic violence
means to inflict physical harm, bodily injury, or sexual assault, or the fear of imminent physical harm, bodily injury, or sexual assault on a family member.
Family member
means any of the following:
(1) A spouse;
(2) A former spouse;
(3) A person related by blood;
(4) A person related by existing or prior marriage;
(5) A person who resides or resided with the defendant;
(6) A person with whom the defendant has a child in common; or
(7) A person with whom the defendant is or was in a dating or intimate relationship.
Parent
means persons who have a child in common, regardless of whether they have been married or have lived together at any time.
§ 11.1202
How to petition for an order of protection.
A victim of domestic violence, or the parent, guardian of a victim, or a concerned adult may petition the court under this subpart for an order of protection.
(a) The petition must be made under oath or accompanied by a sworn affidavit setting out specific facts describing the act of domestic violence.
(b) The petitioner is not required to file for annulment, separation, or divorce in order to obtain an order of
protection. However, the petition should state whether any legal action is pending between the petitioner and the respondent.
(c) The Court may develop simplified petition forms with instructions for completion and make them available to petitioners not represented by counsel. Law enforcement agencies may keep the forms on hand and make them available upon request to victims of domestic violence.
§ 11.1204
Obtaining an emergency order of protection.
(a) When a victim files a petition for an order of protection under § 11.202(a), the court may immediately grant an ex parte emergency order of protection if the petition clearly shows that an act of domestic violence has occurred. The order must meet the content requirements of § 11.206 (a) and (b).
(b) If the court does not immediately grant an emergency order of protection under paragraph (a) of this section, the court must either:
(1) Within 72 hours after the victim files a petition, serve notice to appear upon both parties and hold a hearing on the petition for order of protection; or
(2) If a notice of hearing cannot be served within 72 hours, issue an emergency order of protection.
(c) If the court issues an ex parte emergency order of protection under paragraph (a) of this section, it must within 10 days hold a hearing on the question of continuing the order. If notice of hearing cannot be served within 10 days:
(1) The emergency order of protection is automatically extended for 10 days; and
(2) If after the 10-day extension, notice to appear cannot be served, the emergency order of protection expires.
(d) If the court issues an ex parte emergency order of protection under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, it must cause the order to be served on the person alleged to have committed a family violence act and seek to hold a hearing as soon as possible. If a hearing cannot be held within 10 days, the petitioner may ask the court to renew the emergency protection order.
§ 11.1206
Obtaining a regular (non-emergency) order of protection.
Following a hearing and finding that an act of domestic violence occurred, the court may issue an order of protection. The order must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and may meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. Either party may request a review hearing to amend or vacate the order of protection.
(a) The order of protection must do all of the following:
(1) Specifically describe in clear language the behavior the court has ordered he or she do or refrain from doing;
(2) Give notice that violation of any provision of the order of protection constitutes contempt of court and may result in a fine or imprisonment, or both; and
(3) Indicate whether the order of protection supersedes or alters prior orders pertaining to matters between the parties.
(b) The order of protection may do any of the following:
(1) Order the person who committed the act of domestic violence to refrain from acts or threats of violence against the petitioner or any other family member;
(2) Order that the person who committed the act of domestic violence be removed from the home of the petitioner;
(3) Grant sole possession of the residence or household to the petitioner during the period the order of protection is effective, or order the person who has committed an act of domestic violence to provide temporary suitable alternative housing for the petitioner and other family members to whom the respondent owes a legal obligation of support;
(4) Award temporary custody of any children involved when appropriate and provide for visitation rights, child support, and temporary support for the petitioner on a basis which gives primary consideration to the safety of the petitioner and other household members;
(5) Order the person who is found to have committed an act of domestic violence not to initiate contact with the petitioner;
(6) Restrain the parties from transferring, concealing, encumbering, or otherwise disposing of one another's property or the joint property of the parties except in the usual course of business or for the necessities of life, and order the parties to account to the court for all such transferring, encumbrances, and expenditures made after the order is served or communicated; and
(7) Order other injunctive relief as the court deems necessary for the protection of the petitioner, including orders to law enforcement agencies as provided by this subpart.
§ 11.1208
Service of the protection order.
When an order of protection is granted under this subpart:
(a) The petitioner must file it with the clerk of the court;
(b) The clerk of the court must send a copy to a law enforcement agency with jurisdiction over the area in which the court is located;
(c) The order must be personally served upon the respondent, unless the respondent or his or her attorney was present at the time the order was issued; and
(d) If the court finds the petitioner unable to pay court costs, the order will be served without cost to the petitioner.
§ 11.1210
Duration and renewal of a regular protection order.
An order of protection granted by the court:
(a) Is effective for a fixed period of time, which is up to a maximum of 6 months; and
(b) May be extended for good cause upon motion of the petitioner for an additional period of up to 6 months each time a petition is presented. A petitioner may request as many extensions as necessary provided that the court determines that good cause exists.
§ 11.1212
Consequences of disobedience or interference.
Any willful disobedience or interference with any court order constitutes contempt of court which may result in a fine or imprisonment, or both, in accordance with this part.
§ 11.1214
Relationship of this subpart to other remedies.
The remedies provided in this subpart are in addition to the other civil or criminal remedies available to the petitioner.
Pt. 12

# PART 12—INDIAN COUNTRY LAW ENFORCEMENT

# Subpart A—Responsibilities
Sec.
12.1
Who is responsible for the Bureau of Indian Affairs law enforcement function?
12.2
What is the role of the Bureau of Indian Affairs Director of Law Enforcement Services?
12.3
Who supervises Bureau of Indian Affairs criminal investigators?
12.4
Who supervises the Bureau of Indian Affairs uniformed police, detention, and conservation enforcement functions?

# Subpart B—Policies and Standards
12.11
Do I have to follow these regulations?
12.12
What about self-determination?
12.13
What happens if I do not follow the rules in this part?
12.14
Where can I find specific policies and standards for law enforcement functions in Indian country?

# Subpart C—Authority and Jurisdiction
12.21
What authority is given to Indian country law enforcement officers to perform their duties?
12.22
Can Bureau of Indian Affairs law enforcement officers enforce tribal laws?
12.23
What are the jurisdictional limits in Indian country?

# Subpart D—Qualifications and Training Requirements
12.31
Are there any minimum employment standards for Indian country law enforcement personnel?
12.32
Do minimum employment standards include a background investigation?
12.33
Are Indian country law enforcement officers paid less than other law enforcement officers?
12.34
Do minimum salaries and position classifications apply to a tribe that has contracted or compacted law enforcement under self-determination?
12.35
Do Indian country law enforcement officers complete any special training?
12.36
Does other law enforcement training count?

# Subpart E—Records and Information
12.41
Who keeps statistics for Indian country law enforcement activities?
12.42
Do Indian country law enforcement programs share information with their own communities or other agencies?

# Subpart F—Conduct
12.51
Must Indian country law enforcement officers follow a code of conduct?
12.52
How do I report misconduct?
12.53
Who investigates officer misconduct?
12.54
What can I do if I believe my civil rights have been violated?
12.55
Are there any limits on how much force an officer can use when performing law enforcement duties?

# Subpart G—Support Functions
12.61
Can I be paid for information that helps solve a crime?
12.62
Who decides what uniform an Indian country law enforcement officer can wear and who pays for it?
12.63
Do Indian country law enforcement officers perform other duties as well?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 13, 2417, 2453, and 2802.

# Source:
62 FR 15611, Apr. 2, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Responsibilities
§ 12.1
Who is responsible for the Bureau of Indian Affairs law enforcement function?
The Commissioner of Indian Affairs, or in the absence of a Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner, is responsible for Bureau of Indian Affairs-operated and contracted law enforcement programs, and for overall policy development and implementation of the Indian Law Enforcement Reform Act, Public Law 101-379 (25 U.S.C. 2801
et seq.
).
§ 12.2
What is the role of the Bureau of Indian Affairs Director of Law Enforcement Services?
The Director of the Office of Law Enforcement Services for the Bureau of Indian Affairs (Director) has been delegated the responsibility for the development of law enforcement and detention policies, standards, and management of all Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) criminal investigations, drug enforcement, training, internal affairs, inspection and evaluation, emergency response forces, and other national level Indian country law enforcement initiatives. The Director publishes these policies and standards in law enforcement manuals and handbooks. The Director is also directly responsible for developing crime prevention and outreach programs within Indian country law enforcement.
§ 12.3
Who supervises Bureau of Indian Affairs criminal investigators?
All BIA criminal investigators are supervised by other criminal investigators within the Office of Law Enforcement Services.
§ 12.4
Who supervises the Bureau of Indian Affairs uniformed police, detention, and conservation enforcement functions?
The agency superintendent is directly responsible for the operation and management of BIA uniformed police operations, detention facilities, and conservation enforcement operations at any agency having these programs. The agency superintendent must also ensure technical support is provided to any agency contracting the law enforcement and/or detention program.

# Subpart B—Policies and Standards
§ 12.11
Do I have to follow these regulations?
You must follow the minimum standards outlined in the regulations in this part if you are part of a BIA or tribal law enforcement program receiving Federal funding or operating under a BIA law enforcement commission.
§ 12.12
What about self-determination?
The regulations in this part are not intended to discourage contracting of Indian country law enforcement programs under the Indian Self-determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 450). The Deputy Commissioner of Indian Affairs will ensure minimum standards are maintained in high risk activities where the Federal government retains liability and the responsibility for settling tort claims arising
from contracted law enforcement programs. It is not fair to law abiding citizens of Indian country to have anything less than a professional law enforcement program in their community. Indian country law enforcement programs that receive Federal funding and/or commissioning will be subject to a periodic inspection or evaluation to provide technical assistance, to ensure compliance with minimum Federal standards, and to identify necessary changes or improvements to BIA policies.
§ 12.13
What happens if I do not follow the rules in this part?
Your BIA law enforcement commission may be revoked, your law enforcement contract may be canceled, and you may no longer be eligible for tribal shares allocated from the law enforcement budget.
§ 12.14
Where can I find specific policies and standards for law enforcement functions in Indian country?
BIA will ensure that all Indian country law enforcement programs are provided a copy of the most current policy manuals and handbooks. Every Indian country law enforcement program covered by the regulations in this part must maintain an effective and efficient law enforcement program meeting minimal qualitative standards and procedures specified in chapter 68 Bureau of Indian Affairs Manual (BIAM) and the Law Enforcement Handbook.

# Subpart C—Authority and Jurisdiction
§ 12.21
What authority is given to Indian country law enforcement officers to perform their duties?
BIA law enforcement officers are commissioned under the authority established in 25 U.S.C. 2803. BIA may issue law enforcement commissions to other Federal, State, local and tribal full-time certified law enforcement officers to obtain active assistance in enforcing applicable Federal criminal statutes, including Federal hunting and fishing regulations, in Indian country.
(a) BIA will issue commissions to other Federal, State, local and tribal full-time certified law enforcement officers only after the head of the local government or Federal agency completes an agreement with the Commissioner of Indian Affairs asking that BIA issue delegated commissions. The agreement must include language that allows the BIA to evaluate the effectiveness of these special law enforcement commissions and to investigate any allegations of misuse of authority.
(b) Tribal law enforcement officers operating under a BIA contract or compact are not automatically commissioned as Federal officers; however, they may be commissioned on a case-by-case basis.
§ 12.22
Can Bureau of Indian Affairs law enforcement officers enforce tribal laws?
BIA officers will enforce tribal laws only with the permission of the tribe. Local programs are encouraged to make arrangements and agreements with local jurisdictions to facilitate law enforcement objectives.
§ 12.23
What are the jurisdictional limits in Indian country?
The Department of the Interior and the Department of Justice must maintain and periodically review and update a memorandum of understanding describing the relationship between the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Bureau of Indian Affairs in the investigation and prosecution of major crimes in Indian country. Any law enforcement programs performing duties under the authority of 25 U.S.C. 2803 must follow the guidelines in the memorandum of understanding and any local United States Attorney's guidelines for the investigation and prosecution of Federal crimes.

# Subpart D—Qualifications and Training Requirements
§ 12.31
Are there any minimum employment standards for Indian country law enforcement personnel?
The Director must develop, maintain, and periodically review the qualification standards, including medical qualification standards, for all BIA law enforcement, detention, and conservation
enforcement occupational series. The standards will be no less stringent than the minimum standards established by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for these occupational series, and may exceed the OPM standards. BIA standards are available for review at any BIA personnel office. All tribal programs are encouraged to develop standards at least as stringent as those established for BIA officers.
§ 12.32
Do minimum employment standards include a background investigation?
Law enforcement authority is only entrusted to personnel possessing adequate education and/or experience, training, aptitude, and high moral character. All Indian country law enforcement programs receiving Federal funding and/or authority must ensure that all law enforcement officers successfully complete a thorough background investigation no less stringent than required of a Federal officer performing the same duties. The background investigations of applicants and employees must be adjudicated by trained and qualified security professionals. All background investigations must be documented and available for inspection by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
§ 12.33
Are Indian country law enforcement officers paid less than other law enforcement officers?
An officer's pay is determined by his/her grade and classification. The Commissioner of Indian Affairs must ensure that all BIA law enforcement officer positions are established at no lower grade level on the Federal scale than similar Federal law enforcement officer positions in other agencies. No BIA position performing commissioned law enforcement duties will be classified in other than the GS 0083, police officer series, for uniformed officers and the GS 1811, criminal investigating series, for criminal investigators.
§ 12.34
Do minimum salaries and position classifications apply to a tribe that has contracted or compacted law enforcement under self-determination?
Any contract or compact with the BIA to provide law enforcement services for an Indian tribe must require a law enforcement officer to be paid at least the same salary as a BIA officer performing the same duties.
§ 12.35
Do Indian country law enforcement officers complete any special training?
Law enforcement personnel of any program funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs must not perform law enforcement duties until they have successfully completed a basic law enforcement training course prescribed by the Director. The Director will also prescribe mandatory supplemental and in-service training courses.
§ 12.36
Does other law enforcement training count?
All requests for evaluation of equivalent training must be submitted to the Indian Police Academy for review, with final determination made by the Director. Requests for a waiver of training requirements to use personnel before completing the required courses of instruction must be submitted to the Director and approved or disapproved by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs. In no case will such a waiver allow personnel to be used in any position for more than one year without achieving training standards. Failure to complete basic training requirements will result in removal from a law enforcement position.

# Subpart E—Records and Information
§ 12.41
Who keeps statistics for Indian country law enforcement activities?
The Director maintains a criminal justice information system for Indian country. The Director will prescribe the types of data to be collected and the reporting format to be used to collect information and assemble reports on crime reported in Indian country. These reports may be provided to the Department of Justice. Any law enforcement program receiving funding from the BIA must use the same reporting format and submit the same statistical reports to the Office of Law Enforcement Services as prescribed by the Director and as are required of all BIA law enforcement programs.
§ 12.42
Do Indian country law enforcement programs share information with their own communities or other agencies?
At intervals established by the Director, each BIA criminal investigations program, and any investigations program receiving BIA funds will consult with local tribal leaders and managers of local patrol and detention programs. They will discuss the quality of the local investigations program and offer feedback and technical assistance. There will be no requirement to disclose confidential investigative information or to compromise ongoing investigations during this process.

# Subpart F—Conduct
§ 12.51
Must Indian country law enforcement officers follow a code of conduct?
All law enforcement programs receiving Bureau of Indian Affairs funding or commissioning must establish a law enforcement code of conduct which establishes specific guidelines for conduct on and off duty, impartiality, and professional conduct in the performance of duty, and acceptance of gifts or favors. Each officer must acknowledge in writing receiving and understanding of this code of conduct. The acknowledgment will remain on file with the law enforcement program manager as long as the officer is employed there. Training will be conducted on this code of conduct and other ethics issues at least once each year.
§ 12.52
How do I report misconduct?
The Director will develop and maintain a reporting system that allows any resident of or visitor to Indian country to report officer misconduct. Each law enforcement program in Indian country will maintain instructions on how to register a complaint. An overview of these steps must be posted for public viewing at each law enforcement facility in Indian country.
§ 12.53
Who investigates officer misconduct?
The Director, Office of Law Enforcement Services maintains an internal affairs program that investigates all allegations of misconduct by BIA officers, and any officer receiving funding and/or authority from the BIA. All allegations of misconduct must be thoroughly investigated and appropriate action taken when warranted. Any person having knowledge of officer misconduct must report that information to the officer's supervisor. The supervisor must immediately report allegations to the internal affairs unit. Depending upon the severity of the allegation, the matter may be dealt with locally or it will be investigated by the internal affairs unit. Failure of any BIA employee to report known allegations may be considered misconduct in itself. Citizens may report officer misconduct directly to the internal affairs unit if that is more practical.
§ 12.54
What can I do if I believe my civil rights have been violated?
All allegations of civil rights violations must be reported immediately to the internal affairs unit. That office will ensure that allegations are immediately reported to the Civil Rights Division of the U. S. Department of Justice through established procedures. BIA's internal affairs unit may also investigate the matter and make recommendations for additional action as necessary.
§ 12.55
Are there any limits on how much force an officer can use when performing law enforcement duties?
The Director will develop and maintain the use of force policy for all BIA law enforcement personnel, and for programs receiving BIA funding or authority. Training in the use of force, to include non-lethal measures, will be provided annually. All officers will successfully complete a course of instruction in firearms, to include judgement pistol shooting, approved by the Indian Police Academy before carrying a firearm on or off duty.

# Subpart G—Support Functions
§ 12.61
Can I be paid for information that helps solve a crime?
The Director can spend money to purchase evidence or information, or to offer a reward, in the investigation of a
crime. This is subject to the availability of funds. This authority may be delegated in writing to supervisory criminal investigators within the Office of Law Enforcement Services in the BIA. The Director must develop policies and procedures for the expenditure, control, and audit of these funds before their use.
§ 12.62
Who decides what uniform an Indian country law enforcement officer can wear and who pays for it?
Each local law enforcement program must establish its own uniform requirements for patrol and detention personnel. Uniformed BIA police officers may be paid an annual uniform allowance not to exceed $400. Local programs may provide uniforms and related equipment to officers in lieu of this payment. All law enforcement officers must also have their official identification on their person at all times when performing law enforcement duties. Uniforms, when worn, will be plainly distinguishable from the uniforms of any non-law enforcement personnel working on the reservation.
§ 12.63
Do Indian country law enforcement officers perform other duties as well?
Law enforcement commissions will only be issued by the Bureau of Indian Affairs to persons occupying positions as full-time officers. Bureau of Indian Affairs funded or commissioned criminal investigators will not be responsible for supervising or managing any patrol, detention, or other uniformed police programs.
Pt. 13

# PART 13—TRIBAL REASSUMPTION OF JURISDICTION OVER CHILD CUSTODY PROCEEDINGS

# Subpart A—Purpose
Sec.
13.1
Purpose.
13.2
Information collection.

# Subpart B—Reassumption
13.11
Contents of reassumption petitions.
13.12
Criteria for approval of reassumption petitions.
13.13
Technical assistance prior to petitioning.
13.14
Secretarial review procedure.
13.15
Administrative appeals.
13.16
Technical assistance after disapproval.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 1952.

# Source:
44 FR 45095, July 31, 1979, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose
§ 13.1
Purpose.
(a) The regulations of this part establish the procedures by which an Indian tribe that occupies a reservation as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903(10) over which a state asserts any jurisdiction pursuant to the provisions of the Act of August 15, 1953 (67 Stat. 588) Pub. L. 83-280, or pursuant to any other federal law (including any special federal law applicable only to a tribe or tribes in Oklahoma), may reassume jurisdiction over Indian child custody proceedings as authorized by the Indian Child Welfare Act, Pub. L. 95-608, 92 Stat. 3069, 25 U.S.C. 1918.
(b) On some reservations there are disputes concerning whether certain federal statutes have subjected Indian child custody proceedings to state jurisdiction or whether any such jurisdiction conferred on a state is exclusive of tribal jurisdiction. Tribes located on those reservations may wish to exercise exclusive jurisdiction or other jurisdiction currently exercised by the state without the necessity of engaging in protracted litigation. The procedures in this part also permit such tribes to secure unquestioned exclusive, concurrent or partial jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters without relinquishing their claim that no Federal statute had ever deprived them of that jurisdiction.
(c) Some tribes may wish to join together in a consortium to establish a single entity that will exercise jurisdiction over all their members located on the reservations of tribes participating in the consortium. These regulations also provide a procedure by which tribes may reassume jurisdiction through such a consortium.
(d) These regulations also provide for limited reassumptions including jurisdiction restricted to cases transferred from state courts under 25 U.S.C. 1911(b) and jurisdiction over limited geographical areas.
(e) Unless the petition for reassumption specifically states otherwise, where a tribe reassumes jurisdiction over the reservation it occupies, any land or community occupied by that tribe which subsequently acquires the status of reservation as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903(10) also becomes subject to tribal jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters.
§ 13.2
Information collection.
The information collection requirement contained in § 13.11 has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1076-0112. The information is being collected when federally recognized tribes request reassumption of jurisdiction over child custody proceedings. The information will be used to determine if reassumption of jurisdiction over Indian child custody proceedings is feasible. Response is required to obtain a benefit.
[53 FR 21994, June 13, 1988]

# Subpart B—Reassumption
§ 13.11
Contents of reassumption petitions.
(a) Each petition to reassume jurisdiction over Indian child custody proceedings and the accompanying plan shall contain, where available, the following information in sufficient detail to permit the Secretary to determine whether reassumption is feasible:
(1) Full name, address and telephone number of the petitioning tribe or tribes.
(2) A resolution by the tribal governing body supporting the petition and plan. If the territory involved is occupied by more than one tribe and jurisdiction is to be reassumed over all Indians residing in the territory, the governing body of each tribe involved must adopt such a resolution. A tribe that shares territory with another tribe or tribes may reassume jurisdiction only over its own members without obtaining the consent of the other tribe or tribes. Where a group of tribes form a consortium to reassume jurisdiction, the governing body of each participating tribe must submit a resolution.
(3) The proposed date on which jurisdiction would be reassumed.
(4) Estimated total number of members in the petitioning tribe or tribes, together with an explanation of how the number was estimated.
(5) Current criteria for membership in the tribe or tribes.
(6) Explanation of procedure by which a participant in an Indian child custody proceeding may determine whether a particular individual is a member of a petitioning tribe.
(7) Citation to provision in tribal constitution or similar governing document, if any, that authorizes the tribal governing body to exercise jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters.
(8) Description of the tribal court as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903(12) that has been or will be established to exercise jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters. The description shall include an organization chart and budget for the court. The source and amount of non-tribal funds that will be used to fund the court shall be identified. Funds that will become available only when the tribe reassumes jurisdiction may be included.
(9) Copy of any tribal ordinances or tribal court rules establishing procedures or rules for the exercise of jurisdiction over child custody matters.
(10) Description of child and family support services that will be available to the tribe or tribes when jurisdiction reassumed. Such services include any resource to maintain family stability or provide support for an Indian child in the absence of a family—regardless of whether or not they are the type of services traditionally employed by social services agencies. The description shall include not only those resources of the tribe itself, but also any state or federal resources that will continue to be available after reassumption of jurisdiction.
(11) Estimate of the number of child custody cases expected during a year together with an explanation of how the number was estimated.
(12) Copy of any tribal agreements with states, other tribes or non-Indian local governments relating to child custody matters.
(b) If the petition is for jurisdiction other than transferral jurisdiction under 25 U.S.C. 1911(b), the following information shall also be included in the petition and plan:
(1) Citation of the statute or statutes upon which the state has based its assertion of jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters.
(2) Clear and definite description of the territory over which jurisdiction will be reassumed together with a statement of the size of the territory in square miles.
(3) If a statute upon which the state bases its assertion of jurisdiction is a surplus land statute, a clear and definite description of the reservation boundaries that will be reestablished for purposes of the Indian Child Welfare Act.
(4) Estimated total number of Indian children residing in the affected territory together with an explanation of how the number was estimated.
§ 13.12
Criteria for approval of reassumption petitions.
(a) The Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs shall approve a tribal petition to reassume jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters if:
(1) Any reservation, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903(10), presently affected by the petition is presently occupied by the petitioning tribe or tribes;
(2) The constitution or other governing document, if any, of the petitioning tribe or tribes authorizes the tribal governing body or bodies to exercise jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters;
(3) The information and documents required by § 13.11 of this part have been provided;
(4) A tribal court, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903(12), has been established or will be established before reassumption and that tribal court will be able to exercise jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters in a manner that meets the requirements of the Indian Civil Rights Act, 25 U.S.C. 1302;
(5) Child care services sufficient to meet the needs of most children the tribal court finds must be removed from parental custody are available or will be available at the time of reassumption of jurisdiction; and
(6) The tribe or tribes have established a procedure for clearly identifying persons who will be subject to the jurisdiction of the tribe or tribes upon reassumption of jurisdiction.
(b) If the technical assistance provided by the Bureau to the tribe to correct any deficiency which the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs has identified as a basis for disapproving a petition for reassumption of exclusive jurisdiction has proved unsuccessful in eliminating entirely such problem, the Bureau, at the request of the tribe, shall assist the tribe to assert whatever partial jurisdiction as provided in 25 U.S.C. 1918(b) that is feasible and desired by the tribe. In the alternative, the Bureau, if requested by the concerned tribe, shall assist the tribe to enter into agreements with a state or states regarding the care and custody of Indian children and jurisdiction over Indian child custody proceedings, including agreements which may provide for the orderly transfer of jurisdiction to the tribe on a case-by-case basis or agreements which provide for concurrent jurisdiction between the state and the Indian tribe.
§ 13.13
Technical assistance prior to petitioning.
(a) Upon the request of a tribe desiring to reassume jurisdiction over Indian child custody matters, Bureau agency and Area Offices shall provide technical assistance and make available any pertinent documents, records, maps or reports in the Bureau's possession to enable the tribe to meet the requirements for Secretarial approval of the petition.
(b) Upon the request of such a tribe, to the extent funds are available, the Bureau may provide funding under the procedures established under 25 CFR 23.22 to assist the tribe in developing the tribal court and child care services that will be needed when jurisdiction is reassumed.
§ 13.14
Secretarial review procedure.
(a) Upon receipt of the petition, the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs shall cause to be published in the
Federal Register
a notice stating that the petition has been received and is
under review and that it may be inspected and copied at the Bureau agency office that serves the petitioning tribe or tribes.
(1) No final action shall be taken until 45 days after the petition has been received.
(2) Notice that a petition has been disapproved shall be published in the
Federal Register
no later than 75 days after the petition has been received.
(3) Notice that a petition has been approved shall be published on a date requested by the petitioning tribe or within 75 days after the petition has been received—whichever is later.
(b) Notice of approval shall include a clear and definite description of the territory presently subject to the reassumption of jurisdiction and shall state the date on which the reassumption becomes effective. A copy of the notice shall immediately be sent to the petitioning tribe and to the attorney general, governor and highest court of the affected State or States.
(c) Reasons for disapproval of a petition shall be sent immediately to the petitioning tribe or tribes.
(d) When a petition has been disapproved a tribe or tribes may repetition after taking action to overcome the deficiencies of the first petition.
§ 13.15
Administrative appeals.
The decision of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs may be appealed under procedures established in 43 CFR 4.350-4.369.
1
1
Sections 4.350-4.369 of 43 CFR part 4, were removed at 46 FR 7335, Jan. 23, 1981.
§ 13.16
Technical assistance after disapproval.
If a petition is disapproved, the Bureau shall immediately offer technical assistance to the tribal governing body for the purpose of overcoming the defect in the petition or plan that resulted in the disapproval.

# SUBCHAPTER C—PROBATE
Pt. 15

# PART 15—PROBATE OF INDIAN ESTATES, EXCEPT FOR MEMBERS OF THE OSAGE NATION AND THE FIVE CIVILIZED TRIBES

# Subpart A—Introduction
Sec.
15.1
What is the purpose of this part?
15.2
What definitions do I need to know?
15.3
Who can make a will disposing of trust or restricted land or trust personalty?
15.4
What are the requirements for a valid will?
15.5
May I revoke my will?
15.6
May my will be deemed revoked by the operation of the law of any State?
15.7
What is a self-proved will?
15.8
May I make my will, codicil, or revocation self-proved?
15.9
What information must be included in an affidavit for a self-proved will, codicil, or revocation?
15.10
What assets will the Secretary probate?
15.11
What are the basic steps of the probate process?
15.12
What happens if assets in a trust estate may be diminished or destroyed while the probate is pending?

# Subpart B—Starting the Probate Process
15.101
When should I notify the agency of a death of a person owning trust or restricted property?
15.102
Who may notify the agency of a death?
15.103
How do I begin the probate process?
15.104
Does the agency need a death certificate to prepare a probate file?
15.105
What other documents does the agency need to prepare a probate file?
15.106
May a probate case be initiated when an owner of an interest has been absent?
15.107
Who prepares the probate file?
15.108
If the decedent was not an enrolled member of a tribe or was a member of more than one tribe, who prepares the probate file?

# Subpart C—Preparing the Probate File
15.201
What will the agency do with the documents that I provide?
15.202
What items must the agency include in the probate file?
15.203
What information must Tribes provide BIA to complete the probate file?
15.204
When is a probate file complete?

# Subpart D—Obtaining Emergency Assistance and Filing Claims
15.301
May funds for funeral services be paid from the decedent's IIM account?
15.302
May I file a claim against an estate?
15.303
Where may I file my claim against an estate?
15.304
When must I file my claim?
15.305
What must I include with my claim?

# Subpart E—Probate Processing and Distributions
15.401
What happens after BIA prepares the probate file?
15.402
What happens after the probate file is referred to OHA?
15.403
What happens after the probate order is issued?
15.404
What happens if BIA identifies additional property of a decedent after the probate decision is issued?
15.405
What happens if BIA identifies that property was incorrectly included in a decedent's inventory?

# Subpart F—Information and Records
15.501
How may I find out the status of a probate?
15.502
Who owns the records associated with this part?
15.503
How must records associated with this part be preserved?
15.504
Who may inspect records and records management practices?
15.505
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 372-74, 410, 2201
et seq.;
44 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.

# Cross Reference:
For special rules applying to proceedings in Indian Probate (Determination of Heirs and Approval of Wills, Except for Members of the Five Civilized Tribes and Osage Indians), including hearings and appeals within the jurisdiction of the Office of Hearings and Appeals, see title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, part 4, subpart D, and part 30; Funds of deceased Indians other than the Five Civilized Tribes, see title 25 Code of Federal Regulations, part 115.

# Source:
73 FR 67278, Nov. 13, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction
§ 15.1
What is the purpose of this part?
(a) This part contains the procedures that we follow to initiate the probate of the estate of a deceased person for
whom the United States holds an interest in trust or restricted land or trust personalty. This part tells you how to file the necessary documents to probate the estate. This part also describes how probates will be processed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), and when probates will be forwarded to the Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) for disposition.
(b) The following provisions do not apply to Alaska property interests:
(1) Section 15.202(c), (d), (e)(2), (n), and (o); and
(2) Section 15.401(b).
[73 FR 67278, Nov. 13, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 7505, Feb. 10, 2011]
§ 15.2
What definitions do I need to know?
Act
means the Indian Land Consolidation Act and its amendments, including the American Indian Probate Reform Act of 2004 (AIPRA), Pub. L. 108-374, as codified at 25 U.S.C. 2201
et seq.
Administrative law judge (ALJ)
means an administrative law judge with the Office of Hearings and Appeals appointed under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 3105.
Affidavit
means a written declaration of facts by a person that is signed by that person, swearing or affirming under penalty of perjury that the facts declared are true and correct to the best of that person's knowledge and belief.
Agency means:
(1) The Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) agency office, or any other designated office in BIA, having jurisdiction over trust or restricted land and trust personalty; and
(2) Any office of a tribe that has entered into a contract or compact to fulfill the probate function under 25 U.S.C. 450f or 458cc.
Attorney Decision Maker (ADM)
means an attorney with OHA who conducts a summary probate proceeding and renders a decision that is subject to de novo review by an administrative law judge or Indian probate judge.
BIA
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs within the Department of the Interior.
Child
means a natural or adopted child.
Codicil
means a supplement or addition to a will, executed with the same formalities as a will. It may explain, modify, add to, or revoke provisions in an existing will.
Consolidation agreement
means a written agreement under the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 2206(e) or 2206(j)(9), entered during the probate process, approved by the judge, and implemented by the probate order, by which a decedent's heirs and devisees consolidate interests in trust or restricted land.
Creditor
means any individual or entity that has a claim for payment from a decedent's estate.
Day
means a calendar day.
Decedent
means a person who is deceased.
Decision or order
(or
decision and order
) means:
(1) A written document issued by a judge making determinations as to heirs, wills, devisees, and the claims of creditors, and ordering distribution of trust or restricted land or trust personalty;
(2) The decision issued by an attorney decision maker in a summary probate proceeding; or
(3) A decision issued by a judge finding that the evidence is insufficient to determine that a person is dead by reason of unexplained absence.
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Devise
means a gift of property by will. Also, to give property by will.
Devisee
means a person or entity that receives property under a will.
Eligible heir
means, for the purposes of the Act, any of a decedent's children, grandchildren, great grandchildren, full siblings, half siblings by blood, and parents who are any of the following:
(1) Indian;
(2) Lineal descendents within two degrees of consanguinity of an Indian; or
(3) Owners of a trust or restricted interest in a parcel of land for purposes of inheriting—by descent, renunciation, or consolidation agreement—another trust or restricted interest in such parcel from the decedent.
Estate
means the trust or restricted land and trust personalty owned by the decedent at the time of death.
Formal probate proceeding
means a proceeding, conducted by a judge, in which evidence is obtained through the testimony of witnesses and the receipt of relevant documents.
Heir
means any individual or entity eligible to receive property from a decedent in an intestate proceeding.
Individual Indian Money (IIM) account
means an interest bearing account for trust funds held by the Secretary that belong to a person who has an interest in trust assets. These accounts are under the control and management of the Secretary.
Indian
means, for the purposes of the Act, any of the following:
(1) Any person who is a member of a federally recognized Indian tribe is eligible to become a member of any federally recognized Indian tribe, or is an owner (as of October 27, 2004) of a trust or restricted interest in land;
(2) Any person meeting the definition of Indian under 25 U.S.C. 479; or
(3) With respect to the inheritance and ownership of trust or restricted land in the State of California under 25 U.S.C. 2206, any person described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition or any person who owns a trust or restricted interest in a parcel of such land in that State.
Indian probate judge (IPJ)
means an attorney with OHA, other than an ALJ, to whom the Secretary has delegated the authority to hear and decide Indian probate cases.
Interested party
means:
(1) Any potential or actual heir;
(2) Any devisee under a will;
(3) Any person or entity asserting a claim against a decedent's estate;
(4) Any tribe having a statutory option to purchase the trust or restricted property interest of a decedent; or
(5) A co-owner exercising a purchase option.
Intestate
means that the decedent died without a valid will as determined in the probate proceeding.
Judge
means an ALJ or IPJ.
Lockbox
means a centralized system within OST for receiving and depositing trust fund remittances collected by BIA.
LTRO
means the Land Titles and Records Office within BIA.
OHA
means the Office of Hearings and Appeals within the Department of the Interior.
OST
means the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians within the Department of the Interior.
Probate
means the legal process by which applicable tribal, Federal, or State law that affects the distribution of a decedent's estate is applied in order to:
(1) Determine the heirs;
(2) Determine the validity of wills and determine devisees;
(3) Determine whether claims against the estate will be paid from trust personalty; and
(4) Order the transfer of any trust or restricted land or trust personalty to the heirs, devisees, or other persons or entities entitled by law to receive them.
Purchase option at probate
means the process by which eligible purchasers can purchase a decedent's interest during the probate proceeding.
Restricted property
means real property, the title to which is held by an Indian but which cannot be alienated or encumbered without the Secretary's consent. For the purpose of probate proceedings, restricted property is treated as if it were trust property. Except as the law may provide otherwise, the term “restricted property” as used in this part does not include the restricted lands of the Five Civilized Tribes of Oklahoma or the Osage Nation.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or an authorized representative.
Summary probate proceeding
means the consideration of a probate file without a hearing. A summary probate proceeding may be conducted if the estate involves only an IIM account that did not exceed $5,000 in value on the date of the decedent's death.
Superintendent
means a BIA Superintendent or other BIA official, including a field representative or one holding equivalent authority.
Testate
means that the decedent executed a valid will as determined in the probate proceeding.
Testator
means a person who has executed a valid will as determined in the probate proceeding.
Trust personalty
means all tangible personal property, funds, and securities of any kind that are held in trust in an IIM account or otherwise supervised by the Secretary.
Trust property
means real or personal property, or an interest therein, the title to which is held in trust by the United States for the benefit of an individual Indian or tribe.
We
or
us
means the Secretary, an authorized representative of the Secretary, or the authorized employee or representative of a tribe performing probate functions under a contract or compact approved by the Secretary.
Will
means a written testamentary document that was executed by the decedent and attested to by two disinterested adult witnesses, and that states who will receive the decedent's trust or restricted property.
You or I
means an interested party, as defined herein, with an interest in the decedent's estate unless the context requires otherwise.
[73 FR 67278, Nov. 13, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 7505, Feb. 10, 2011]
§ 15.3
Who can make a will disposing of trust or restricted land or trust personalty?
Any person 18 years of age or over and of testamentary capacity, who has any right, title, or interest in trust or restricted land or trust personalty, may dispose of trust or restricted land or trust personalty by will.
§ 15.4
What are the requirements for a valid will?
You must meet the requirements of § 15.3, date and execute your will, in writing and have it attested by two disinterested adult witnesses.
§ 15.5
May I revoke my will?
Yes. You may revoke your will at any time. You may revoke your will by any means authorized by tribal or Federal law, including executing a subsequent will or other writing with the same formalities as are required for execution of a will.
§ 15.6
May my will be deemed revoked by operation of the law of any State?
No. A will that is subject to the regulations of this subpart will not be deemed to be revoked by operation of the law of any State.
§ 15.7
What is a self-proved will?
A self-proved will is a will with attached affidavits, signed by the testator and the witnesses before an officer authorized to administer oaths, certifying that they complied with the requirements of execution of the will.
§ 15.8
May I make my will, codicil, or revocation self-proved?
Yes. A will, codicil, or revocation may be made self-proved as provided in this section.
(a) A will, codicil, or revocation may be made self-proved by the testator and attesting witnesses at the time of its execution.
(b) The testator and the attesting witnesses must sign the required affidavits before an officer authorized to administer oaths, and the affidavits must be attached to the will, codicil, or revocation.
§ 15.9
What information must be included in an affidavit for a self-proved will, codicil, or revocation?
(a) A testator's affidavit must contain substantially the following content:
Tribe of ________ or
State of ________
County of ________.
I, ________, swear or affirm under penalty of perjury that, on the ____ day of ________, 20____, I requested ________and ________ to act as witnesses to my will; that I declared to them that the document was my last will; that I signed the will in the presence of both witnesses; that they signed the will as witnesses in my presence and in the presence of each other; that the will was read and explained to me (or read by me), after being prepared and before I signed it, and it clearly and accurately expresses my wishes; and that I willingly made and executed the will as my free and voluntary act for the purposes expressed in the will.
Testator
(b) Each attesting witness's affidavit must contain substantially the following content:
We, ________and ________, swear or affirm under penalty of perjury that on the ____ day of ________, 20____, ________ of the State of ________, published and declared the attached document to be his/her last will, signed the will in the presence of both of us, and requested both of us to sign the will as witnesses; that we, in compliance with his/her request, signed the will as witnesses in his/her presence and in the presence of each other; and that the testator was not acting under duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence of any person, so far as we could determine, and in our opinion was mentally capable of disposing of all his/her estate by will.
Witness
Witness
Subscribed and sworn to or affirmed before me this ____ day of ________, 20____, by ________ testator, and by ________ and ________, attesting witnesses.
(Title)
§ 15.10
What assets will the Secretary probate?
(a) We will probate only the trust or restricted land, or trust personalty owned by the decedent at the time of death.
(b) We will not probate the following property:
(1) Real or personal property other than trust or restricted land or trust personalty owned by the decedent at the time of death;
(2) Restricted land derived from allotments made to members of the Five Civilized Tribes (Cherokee, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Creek, and Seminole) in Oklahoma; and
(3) Restricted interests derived from allotments made to Osage Indians in Oklahoma (Osage Nation) and Osage headright interests owned by Osage decedents.
(c) We will probate that part of the lands and assets owned by a deceased member of the Five Civilized Tribes or Osage Nation who owned a trust interest in land or a restricted interest in land derived from an individual Indian who was a member of a Tribe other than the Five Civilized Tribes or Osage Nation.
[76 FR 7505, Feb. 10, 2011]
§ 15.11
What are the basic steps of the probate process?
The basic steps of the probate process are:
(a) We learn about a person's death (see subpart B for details);
(b) We prepare a probate file that includes documents sent to the agency (see subpart C for details);
(c) We refer the completed probate file to OHA for assignment to a judge or ADM (see subpart D for details); and
(d) The judge or ADM decides how to distribute any trust or restricted land and/or trust personalty, and we make the distribution (see subpart D for details).
§ 15.12
What happens if assets in a trust estate may be diminished or destroyed while the probate is pending?
(a) This section applies if an interested party or BIA:
(1) Learns of the death of a person owning trust or restricted property; and
(2) Believes that an emergency exists and the assets in the estate may be significantly diminished or destroyed before the final decision and order of a judge in a probate case.
(b) An interested party, the Superintendent, or other authorized representative of BIA has standing to request relief.
(c) The interested party or BIA representative may request:
(1) That OHA immediately assign a judge or ADM to the probate case;
(2) That BIA transfer a probate file to OHA containing sufficient information on potential interested parties and documentation concerning the alleged emergency for a judge to consider emergency relief in order to preserve estate assets; and
(3) That OHA hold an expedited hearing or consider ex parte relief to prevent impending or further loss or destruction of trust assets.
[73 FR 67278, Nov. 13, 2008, as amended at 76 FR 7505, Feb. 10, 2011]

# Subpart B—Starting the Probate Process
§ 15.101
When should I notify the agency of the death of a person owning trust or restricted property?
There is no deadline for notifying us of a death.
(a) Notify us as provided in § 15.103 to assure timely distribution of the estate.
(b) If we find out about the death of a person owning trust or restricted property we may initiate the process to collect the necessary documentation.
§ 15.102
Who may notify the agency of a death?
Anyone may notify us of a death.
§ 15.103
How do I begin the probate process?
As soon as possible, contact any of the following offices to inform us of the decedent's death:
(a) The agency or BIA regional office nearest to where the decedent was enrolled;
(b) Any agency or BIA regional office; or
(c) The Trust Beneficiary Call Center in OST.
§ 15.104
Does the agency need a death certificate to prepare a probate file?
(a) Yes. You must provide us with a certified copy of the death certificate if a death certificate exists. If necessary, we will make a copy from your certified copy for our use and return your copy.
(b) If a death certificate does not exist, you must provide an affidavit containing as much information as you have concerning the deceased, such as:
(1) The State, city, reservation, location, date, and cause of death;
(2) The last known address of the deceased;
(3) Names and addresses of others who may have information about the deceased; and
(4) Any other information available concerning the deceased, such as newspaper articles, an obituary, death notices, or a church or court record.
§ 15.105
What other documents does the agency need to prepare a probate file?
In addition to the certified copy of a death certificate or other reliable evidence of death listed in § 15.104, we need the following information and documents:
(a) Originals or copies of all wills, codicils, and revocations, or other evidence that a will may exist;
(b) The Social Security number of the decedent;
(c) The place of enrollment and the tribal enrollment or census number of the decedent and potential heirs or devisees;
(d) Current names and addresses of the decedent's potential heirs and devisees;
(e) Any sworn statements regarding the decedent's family, including any statements of paternity or maternity;
(f) Any statements renouncing an interest in the estate including identification of the person or entity in whose favor the interest is renounced, if any;
(g) A list of claims by known creditors of the decedent and their addresses, including copies of any court judgments; and
(h) Documents from the appropriate authorities, certified if possible, concerning the public record of the decedent, including but not limited to, any:
(1) Marriage licenses and certificates of the decedent;
(2) Divorce decrees of the decedent;
(3) Adoption and guardianship records concerning the decedent or the decedent's potential heirs or devisees;
(4) Use of other names by the decedent, including copies of name changes by court order; and
(5) Orders requiring payment of child support or spousal support.
§ 15.106
May a probate case be initiated when an owner of an interest has been absent?
(a) A probate case may be initiated when either:
(1) Information is provided to us that an owner of an interest in trust or restricted land or trust personalty has been absent without explanation for a period of at least 6 years; or
(2) We become aware of other facts or circumstances from which an inference may be drawn that the person has died.
(b) When we receive information as described in § 15.106(a), we may begin an investigation into the circumstances, and may attempt to locate the person. We may:
(1) Search available electronic databases;
(2) Inquire into other published information sources such as telephone directories and other available directories;
(3) Examine BIA land title and lease records;
(4) Examine the IIM account ledger for disbursements from the account; and
(5) Engage the services of an independent firm to conduct a search for the owner.
(c) When we have completed our investigation, if we are unable to locate the person, we may initiate a probate case and prepare a file that may include all the documentation developed in the search.
(d) We may file a claim in the probate case to recover the reasonable costs expended to contract with an independent firm to conduct the search.
§ 15.107
Who prepares a probate file?
The agency that serves the tribe where the decedent was an enrolled member will prepare the probate file in consultation with the potential heirs or devisees who can be located, and with other people who have information about the decedent or the estate.
§ 15.108
If the decedent was not an enrolled member of a tribe or was a member of more than one tribe, who prepares the probate file?
Unless otherwise provided by Federal law, the agency that has jurisdiction over the tribe with the strongest association with the decedent will serve as the home agency and will prepare the probate file if the decedent owned interests in trust or restricted land or trust personalty and either:
(a) Was not an enrolled member of a tribe; or
(b) Was a member of more than one tribe.

# Subpart C—Preparing the Probate File
§ 15.201
What will the agency do with the documents that I provide?
After we receive notice of the death of a person owning trust or restricted land or trust personalty, we will examine the documents provided under §§ 15.104 and 15.105, and other documents and information provided to us to prepare a complete probate file. We may consult with you and other individuals or entities to obtain additional information to complete the probate file. Then we will transfer the probate file to OHA.
§ 15.202
What items must the agency include in the probate file?
(a) We will include the items listed in this section in the probate file, except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) The evidence of death of the decedent as provided under § 15.104.
(2) A completed “Data for Heirship Findings and Family History Form” or successor form, certified by BIA, with the enrollment or other identifying number shown for each potential heir or devisee.
(3) Information provided by potential heirs, devisees, or the Tribes on:
(i) Whether the heirs and devisees meet the definition of “Indian” for probate purposes, including enrollment or eligibility for enrollment in a Tribe; or
(ii) Whether the potential heirs or devisees are within two degrees of consanguinity of an “Indian.”
(4) If an individual qualifies as an Indian only because of ownership of a trust or restricted interest in land, the date on which the individual became the owner of the trust or restricted interest.
(5) A certified inventory of trust or restricted land, including:
(i) Accurate and adequate descriptions of all land; and
(ii) Identification of any interests that represent less than 5 percent of the undivided interests in a parcel.
(6) A statement showing the balance and the source of funds in the decedent's IIM account on the date of death.
(7) A statement showing all receipts and sources of income to and disbursements, if any, from the decedent's IIM account after the date of death.
(8) Originals or copies of all wills, codicils, and revocations that have been provided to us.
(9) A copy of any statement or document concerning any wills, codicils, or revocations the BIA returned to the testator.
(10) Any statement renouncing an interest in the estate that has been submitted to us, and the information necessary to identify any person receiving a renounced interest.
(11) Claims of creditors that have been submitted to us under §§ 15.302 through 15.305, including documentation required by § 15.305.
(12) Documentation of any payments made on requests filed under the provisions of § 15.301.
(13) All the documents acquired under § 15.105.
(14) The record of each Tribal or individual request to purchase a trust or restricted land interest at probate.
(15) The record of any individual request for a consolidation agreement, including a description, such as an Individual/Tribal Interest Report, of any lands not part of the decedent's estate that are proposed for inclusion in the consolidation agreement.
(16) Valuation reports for those interests to which the special circumstances listed in 43 CFR 30.264 apply.
(b) If the estate includes only cash and the total value of the estate does not exceed $300 on the date of death, including funds deposited and accruing on or before the date of death, then we will include only the following in the probate file.
(1) The evidence of death of the decedent as provided under § 15.104.
(2) A completed “Data for Heirship Findings and Family History Form” or successor form, certified by BIA as an accurate summary of the information available to BIA that is relevant to the probate of the estate (this form should be completed with information provided by potential heirs, devisees, or Tribes to the greatest extent possible, but BIA is not required to obtain documentation in addition to that provided by those entities).
(3) A statement showing the balance and the source of funds in the decedent's IIM account on the date of death.
(4) Certification that the decedent's estate does not contain any interests in trust or restricted land.
(5) Originals or copies of all wills, codicils, and revocations that have been provided to BIA.
(6) A copy of any statement or document concerning any wills, codicils, or revocations the BIA returned to the testator.
(7) Documentation of any payments made on requests filed under the provisions of § 15.301.
(8) All the documents acquired under § 15.105.
[86 FR 72081, Dec. 20, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 39769, June 20, 2023]
§ 15.203
What information must Tribes provide BIA to complete the probate file?
Tribes must provide any information that we require or request to complete the probate file. This information may include enrollment and family history data or property title documents that pertain to any pending probate matter, and a copy of Tribal probate orders where they exist.
[76 FR 7505, Feb. 10, 2011]
§ 15.204
When is a probate file complete?
A probate file is complete for transfer to OHA when a BIA approving official includes a certification that:
(a) States that the probate file includes all information listed in § 15.202 that is available; and
(b) Lists all sources of information BIA queried in an attempt to locate information listed in § 15.202 that is not available.

# Subpart D—Obtaining Emergency Assistance and Filing Claims
§ 15.301
May funds for funeral services be paid from the decedent's IIM account?
(a) Before the probate case is submitted to OHA, you may request an amount of no more than $5,000 from the decedent's IIM account if:
(1) You are responsible for making the funeral arrangements on behalf of the family of a decedent who has an IIM account;
(2) You have not received sufficient funds from the decedent's Tribe to pay the entire cost of the funeral arrangements; and
(3) You have an immediate need to pay for funeral arrangements before burial.
(b) You must apply for funds under paragraph (a) of this section and submit to us an original itemized estimate of the cost of the service to be rendered and the identification of the service provider.
(c) In response to a request submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, we may approve, without the need for an order from OHA, costs of no more than $5,000 from the date of death IIM account balance that are reasonable and necessary for the burial services, taking into consideration:
(1) The availability of non-trust funds, including availability of any Tribal contribution; and
(2) Any other relevant factors.
[73 FR 67278, Nov. 13, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 72082, Dec. 20, 2021]
§ 15.302
May I file a claim against an estate?
If a decedent owed you money, you may make a claim against the estate of the decedent.
§ 15.303
Where may I file my claim against an estate?
(a) You may submit your claim to us before we transfer the probate file to OHA or you may file your claim with OHA after the probate file has been transferred if you comply with 43 CFR 30.140 through 30.148.
(b) If we receive your claim after the probate file has been transmitted to OHA but before the order is issued, we will promptly transmit your claim to OHA.
§ 15.304
When must I file my claim?
You must file your claim before the conclusion of the first hearing by OHA or, for cases designated as summary probate proceedings, as allowed under 43 CFR 30.140. Claims not timely filed will be barred.
§ 15.305
What must I include with my claim?
(a) You must include an itemized statement of the claim, including copies of any supporting documents such as signed notes, account records, billing records, and journal entries. The itemized statement must also include:
(1) The date and amount of the original debt;
(2) The dates, amounts, and identity of the payor for any payments made;
(3) The dates, amounts, product or service, and identity of any person making charges on the account;
(4) The balance remaining on the debt on the date of the decedent's death; and
(5) Any evidence that the decedent disputed the amount of the claim.
(b) You must submit an affidavit that verifies the balance due and states whether:
(1) Parties other than the decedent are responsible for any portion of the debt alleged;
(2) Any known or claimed offsets to the alleged debt exist;
(3) The creditor or anyone on behalf of the creditor has filed a claim or sought reimbursement against the decedent's non-trust or non-restricted property in any other judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding, and the status of such action; and
(4) The creditor or anyone on behalf of the creditor has filed a claim or sought reimbursement against the decedent's trust or restricted property in any other judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding, and the status of such action.
(c) A secured creditor must first exhaust the security before a claim against trust personalty for any deficiency will be allowed. You must submit a verified or certified copy of any judgment or other documents that establish the amount of the deficiency after exhaustion of the security.

# Subpart E—Probate Processing and Distributions
§ 15.401
What happens after BIA prepares the probate file?
Within 30 days after we assemble all the documents required by §§ 15.202 and 15.204, we will:
(a) Refer the case and send the probate file to OHA for adjudication in accordance with 43 CFR part 30; and
(b) Forward a list of fractional interests that represent less than 5 percent of the entire undivided ownership of each parcel of land in the decedent's estate to the tribes with jurisdiction over those interests.
§ 15.402
What happens after the probate file is referred to OHA?
When OHA receives the probate file from BIA, it will assign the case to a judge or ADM. The judge or ADM will conduct the probate proceeding and issue a written decision or order, in accordance with 43 CFR part 30.
§ 15.403
What happens after the probate order is issued?
(a) If the probate decision or order is issued by an ADM, you have 30 days from the decision mailing date to file a written request for a de novo review.
(b) If the probate decision or order is issued by a judge, you have 30 days from the decision mailing date to file a written request for rehearing. After a judge's decision on rehearing, you have 30 days from the mailing date of the decision to file an appeal, in accordance with 43 CFR parts 4 and 30.
(c) When any interested party files a timely request for de novo review, a request for rehearing, or an appeal, we will not pay claims, transfer title to land, or distribute trust personalty until the request or appeal is resolved.
(d) If no interested party files a request or appeal within the 30-day deadlines in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, we will wait at least 15 additional days before paying claims, transferring title to land, and distributing trust personalty. At that time:
(1) The LTRO will change the land title records for the trust and restricted land in accordance with the final decision or order; and
(2) We will pay claims and distribute funds from the IIM account in accordance with the final decision or order.
§ 15.404
What happens if BIA identifies additional property of a decedent after the probate decision is issued?
If, after OHA issues the probate decision, BIA identifies additional trust or restricted property of a decedent that it had not already identified at the time of the decision, then BIA will submit a petition to OHA for an order directing distribution of the additional property.
(a) The petition must identify the additional property and the source of that property (
e.g.,
inheritance or approval of a deed) and must include the following:
(1) A certified inventory describing the additional trust or restricted land, if applicable, or, if the additional property is trust personalty, documents verifying the balance and source of the additional trust personalty, and a statement that the inventory lists only the property to be added;
(2) A copy of the decision, or modification or distribution order and corresponding inventory issued in the probate case from which the property was inherited by the decedent, if applicable;
(3) A statement identifying each newly added share of any allotment that increases the decedent's total share of the ownership interest of the allotment to 5 percent or more;
(4) A copy of BIA's notification to the Tribes with jurisdiction over the interests of the list of the additional interests that represent less than 5 percent of the entire undivided ownership of each parcel (after being added to the decedent's estate) under § 15.401(b); and
(5) A certification that all interested parties have been associated to the case and their names and addresses are current.
(b) BIA may submit the petition at any time after issuance of the decision.
(c) BIA must send a copy of the petition and all supporting documentation to each interested party at the time of filing and include a certification of service.
[86 FR 72082, Dec. 20, 2021, amended at 88 FR 39769, June 20, 2023]
§ 15.405
What happens if BIA identifies that property was incorrectly included in a decedent's inventory?
If, after issuance of a decision, BIA identifies certain trust or restricted property or an interest therein that was incorrectly included in a decedent's inventory, then BIA will submit
a petition to OHA for an order notifying all heirs or devisees of the correction and addressing any changes in distribution of property resulting from the correction.
(a) The petition must identify the property that BIA removed from the estate and explain why the property should not have been included, and must include the following:
(1) A newly issued certified inventory describing the trust or restricted land remaining in decedent's estate, if applicable;
(2) A copy of the decision, or modification or distribution order and corresponding inventory issued in the probate case from which BIA discovered that the property was incorrectly included in the decedent's estate, if applicable;
(3) A statement identifying each property in the decedent's estate that decreased the total share of the ownership of the allotment to less than 5 percent as a result of the removal of property from the estate; and
(4) A certification that all interested parties have been associated to the case and their names and addresses are current.
(b) BIA may submit the petition at any time after issuance of the decision.
(c) BIA must send a copy of the petition and all supporting documentation to each interested party at the time of filing and include certification of service.
[86 FR 72082, Dec. 20, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 39769, June 20, 2023]

# Subpart F—Information and Records
§ 15.501
How may I find out the status of a probate?
You may get information about the status of an Indian probate by contacting any BIA agency or regional office, an OST fiduciary trust officer, OHA, or the Trust Beneficiary Call Center in OST.
§ 15.502
Who owns the records associated with this part?
(a) The United States owns the records associated with this part if:
(1) They are evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities undertaken in the performance of a federal trust function under this part; and
(2) They are either:
(i) Made by or on behalf of the United States; or
(ii) Made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of a Federal trust function under this part, including the operation of a trust program under Pub. L. 93-638, as amended, and as codified at 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.
(b) The tribe owns the records associated with this part if they:
(1) Are not covered by paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) Are made or received by a tribe or tribal organization in the conduct of business with the Department of the Interior under this part.
§ 15.503
How must records associated with this part be preserved?
(a) Any organization that has records identified in § 15.502(a), including tribes and tribal organizations, must preserve the records in accordance with approved Departmental records retention procedures under the Federal Records Act, 44 U.S.C. chapters 29, 31, and 33; and
(b) A tribe or tribal organization must preserve the records identified in § 15.502(b) for the period authorized by the Archivist of the United States for similar Department of the Interior records under 44 U.S.C. chapter 33. If a tribe or tribal organization does not do so, it may be unable to adequately document essential transactions or furnish information necessary to protect its legal and financial rights or those of persons affected by its activities.
§ 15.504
Who may inspect records and records management practices?
(a) You may inspect the probate file at the relevant agency before the file is transferred to OHA. Access to records in the probate file is governed by 25 U.S.C. 2216(e), the Privacy Act, and the Freedom of Information Act.
(b) The Secretary and the Archivist of the United States may inspect records and records management practices and safeguards required under the Federal Records Act.
§ 15.505
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?
The collections of information contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-0169. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to a collection of information unless the form or regulation requesting the information has a currently valid OMB Control Number.
Pt. 16

# PART 16—ESTATES OF INDIANS OF THE FIVE CIVILIZED TRIBES
Sec.
16.1
Definitions.
16.2
Scope of regulations.
16.3
Legal representation in State courts.
16.4
Exchange of information within the Department.
16.5
Acceptance and acknowledgement of service of process.
16.6
Authority of attorneys in State court litigation.
16.7
Performance of Federal functions by successor State courts.
16.8
Summary distribution of small liquid estates.
16.9
Escheat of estates of decedents.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301 (Interprets or applies Act of Apr. 26, 1906, ch. 1876, 34 Stat. 137, see 25 U.S.C. 355nt (1970); Act of May 27, 1908, ch. 199, 35 Stat. 312, see 25 U.S.C. 355nt (1970); Act of June 14, 1918, ch. 101, 40 Stat. 606, 25 U.S.C. 355, 375 (1970); Act of Apr. 12, 1926, ch. 115, 44 Stat. 239, see 25 U.S.C. 355nt (1970); Act of June 26, 1936, ch. 831, 49 Stat. 1967, 25 U.S.C. 501-509 (1970); Act of Aug. 4, 1947, ch. 458, 61 Stat. 731, 25 U.S.C. 502 (1970) and see 25 U.S.C. 355nt (1970); Act of Aug. 12, 1953, ch. 409, 67 Stat. 558, 25 U.S.C. 375c (1970) and see 25 U.S.C. 355nt (1970); Act of Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 786, 69 Stat. 666, see 25 U.S.C. 355nt (1970); Act of Aug. 29, 1967, Pub. L. 90-76, 81 Stat. 177, 25 U.S.C. 786-788 (1970); and Act of May 7, 1970, Pub. L. 91-240, 84 Stat. 203, 25 U.S.C. 375d (1970)).

# Source:
37 FR 7082, Apr. 8, 1972, unless otherwise noted.
§ 16.1
Definitions.
(a) The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior and his authorized representatives.
(b) The term
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, acting through the Commissioner of Indian Affairs and his authorized representatives, including field officials who are responsible for matters affecting properties in which a restricted interest is owned by an Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes.
(c) The term
Field Solicitor
means the Regional Solicitor, Southwest Region, Page Belcher Federal Building, P.O. Box 3156, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74101.
(d) The term
Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes
means an individual who is either an enrolled member of the Cherokee, Chickasaw, Choctaw, Creek, or Seminole Tribes of Oklahoma, or a descendant of an enrolled member thereof.
(e) The term
restricted interest
means an interest owned in real or personal property subject to restraints upon alienation imposed either by Federal statute or by administrative action authorized by Federal statute. Although this term includes property subject to restraints which may be removed by administrative action, its use in this part refers primarily to property subject to restraints which State courts have jurisdiction to remove in proceedings such as those specified in § 16.2.
[37 FR 7082, Apr. 8, 1972, as amended at 50 FR 12529, Mar. 29, 1985]
§ 16.2
Scope of regulations.
The regulations in this part set forth procedures for discharging the responsibilities of the Secretary in connection with the performance by State courts, as authorized by Federal statutes, of certain functions which affect properties in which a restricted interest is owned by an Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes. These State court functions pertain to such proceedings as guardianship, heirship determination, will probate, estate administration, conveyance approval, partition of real property, confirmation of title to real property, and appeal from action removing or failing to remove restrictions against alienation. In addition, the regulations in this part set forth procedures for discharging certain other responsibilities of the Secretary not necessarily involving State court functions, such as escheat of estates of deceased Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes.
§ 16.3
Legal representation in State courts.
The statutory duties of the Secretary to furnish legal advice to any Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes, and to represent such Indian in State courts, in matters affecting a restricted interest owned by such Indian, shall be performed by attorneys on the staff of the Solicitor, under the supervision of the Field Solicitor. Such advice and representation shall be undertaken to the extent that the Field Solicitor in his discretion shall consider necessary to discharge said duties, with due regard to the complexity of the legal action contemplated, the availability of staff attorneys for such purposes, the value and extent of the restricted interests involved, possible conflicts between Indians claiming to be owners of such interests, the preference of such owners concerning legal representation, the financial resources available to such owners, the extent to which such owners require similar legal services in connection with their unrestricted properties, and any other factor appropriate for consideration.
§ 16.4
Exchange of information within the Department.
To the extent that information may be useful in discharging the duties covered by the regulations in this part, the Bureau shall furnish to the Field Solicitor, either on a current basis or at periodic intervals, processes and notices received concerning court cases and information, as current and complete as may reasonably be obtainable, concerning the estate and status of an Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes for whom legal assistance should be rendered pursuant to the regulations in this part. Similarly, to the extent that such information may be useful for Bureau action or records, the Field Solicitor shall advise the Bureau of court proceedings, information received, and action taken in furnishing legal services pursuant to the regulations in this part.
§ 16.5
Acceptance and acknowledgement of service of process.
Service by the Field Solicitor or any other person of any process or notice, pursuant to any Federal statute which by its express terms is applicable to Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes, may be accepted and acknowledged by the Field Solicitor, or by any attorney authorized to perform the duties specified in § 16.3, on behalf of the Secretary and the Bureau, notwithstanding any specific designation in such statute of the official to be served (such as the Secretary, superintendent for the Five Civilized Tribes, Probate Attorney, etc.).
§ 16.6
Authority of attorneys in State court litigation.
Attorneys authorized to perform the duties specified in § 16.3 appearing in State court litigation in their official capacities are authorized to take such action as the Secretary could take if he were personally appearing in his official capacity as counsel therein, including but not limited to the filing or decision against filing of initial, responsive, or supplemental pleadings and appeals from adverse judgments, the exercise or decision against exercise of a preferential right to purchase property subject to sale, the removal or decision against removal of actions to Federal courts, and the waiver or decision against waiver of the failure to make timely service of process or notice.
§ 16.7
Performance of Federal functions by successor State courts.
All authority to perform functions relating to Indians of the Five Civilized Tribes which by express provisions of Federal statute had been conferred upon probate or county courts of Oklahoma before such county courts were abolished on January 12, 1969, has since that date been vested in the successor district courts of that State, and all rights of litigants continue undiminished in the successor forum, including the right to appeal from adverse decisions rendered therein to the successor appellate court.
(Interprets or applies Okla. Op. Atty. Gen. No. 68-381 (Dec. 20, 1968))
§ 16.8
Summary distribution of small liquid estates.
Where information, furnished by the Bureau pursuant to § 16.4 or otherwise obtained, reveals that the estate of a
deceased Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes contains no restricted land but consists of a restricted interest in funds not exceeding $500 on deposit to the credit of the decedent, the Field Solicitor shall, in the absence of any final decree determining the heirs or legatees of the decedent, prepare and furnish to the Bureau a finding and order of distribution, based on affidavit or other proof of death and heirship or bequest, setting forth the facts of death and heirship or bequest and the amount payable from the estate to each person determined to be an heir or legatee of the decedent. The Field Solicitor shall mail to each person considered a possible claimant to any portion of the estate, as an heir or legatee or otherwise, a copy of the order with a notice that the order shall become final 30 days after the date of mailing thereof unless within that period the officer by whom the order was signed shall have received a written request for reconsideration of the order. After final action on any order has been taken by the Field Solicitor, the Bureau shall distribute the funds in the estate of the decedent in accordance with such final action, unless a timely appeal therefrom has been filed in accordance with part 2 of this title.
§ 16.9
Escheat of estates of decedents.
Where information, furnished by the Bureau pursuant to § 16.4 or otherwise obtained, reveals that the estate of a deceased Indian of the Five Civilized Tribes, who has been dead 5 or more years after having died intestate without heirs, consists of restricted interests in lands or rents or profits therefrom, the Field Solicitor shall, in the absence of any final decree determining that the decedent died without heirs or devisees, prepare and furnish to the Bureau a finding and order of escheat, based on affidavit or other proof of intestate death without heirs, setting forth the restricted interests in lands or rents or profits therefrom which have by escheat vested in the tribe which allotted the lands. The Field Solicitor shall mail to each person considered a possible claimant to any portion of the estate, as an heir or devisee or otherwise, a copy of the order with a notice that the order shall become final 30 days after the date of mailing thereof unless within that period the officer by whom the order was signed shall have received a written request for reconsideration of the order. After final action on any order has been taken by the Field Solicitor, the Bureau shall cause a certified copy thereof to be filed in the land records of each county within which are located any escheated lands described therein and shall cause the tribe to be credited with any funds in said estate which arose from rents or profits from such lands, unless a timely appeal therefrom has been filed in accordance with part 2 of this title.
Pt. 17

# PART 17—ACTION ON WILLS OF OSAGE INDIANS
Sec.
17.1
Definitions.
17.2
Attorneys.
17.3
Pleadings, notice and hearings.
17.4
Service on interested parties.
17.5
Minors represented at hearings.
17.6
Examination of witness.
17.7
Limiting number of witnesses.
17.8
Supplemental hearing.
17.9
Briefs.
17.10
Record.
17.11
Inspection of wills and approval as to form during testator's lifetime.
17.12
Approval.
17.13
Government employees as beneficiaries.
17.14
Appeals.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301.

# Source:
22 FR 10530, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted.
§ 17.1
Definitions.
When used in the regulations in this part the following words or terms shall have the meaning shown below:
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(b)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.
(c)
Superintendent
means the superintendent of the Osage Indian Agency.
(d)
Special attorney
means the special attorney for Osage Indians, or other legal officer designated by the Commissioner.
§ 17.2
Attorneys.
Interested parties may appear in person or by attorneys at law. Attorneys
must file written authority to appear for their clients in the proceedings.
§ 17.3
Pleadings, notice and hearings.
(a) The petition for approval of the will of a deceased Osage Indian may be set down for hearing at a date not less than 30 days from the date the petition is filed. Hearings shall be conducted only after notice of the time and place of such hearings shall have been given by mail. The notice shall be mailed not less than 10 days preceding the date of the hearing and shall state that the special attorney will, at the time and place specified therein, take testimony to determine whether the will of the deceased Osage Indian shall be approved or disapproved. The notice shall list the presumptive heirs of the decedent and the beneficiaries under such will, and shall notify the attesting witnesses to be present and testify. It shall state that all persons interested in the estate of the decedent may be present at the hearing. The notice shall further state that the special attorney may, in his discretion, continue the hearing to another time or place to be announced at the original hearing.
(b) Any interested party desiring to contest approval of the will may, not less than 5 days before the date set for hearing, file written objections in triplicate, showing that a copy thereof was served upon attorneys for the proponent and other attorneys of record in the case. Such contestant shall clearly state the interest he takes under the will and, if a presumptive heir, the interest he would take under the Oklahoma law. The contestant shall further state specifically the ground on which his contest is based.
§ 17.4
Service on interested parties.
A copy of the notice of hearing shall be served by mail, at his last known place of residence, on each presumptive heir; each beneficiary under the will offered for consideration; and each attesting witness thereto. Such notice must be mailed not less than 10 days preceding the date set for the hearing.
§ 17.5
Minors represented at hearings.
Minor heirs at law, who by the terms of the will are devised a lesser interest in the estate than they would take by descent, of whose interests are challenged, shall, with the approval of the special attorney, be represented at the hearing by guardians ad litem. Such minors 14 years of age or over may indicate in writing their choice of guardians ad litem. If no such choice has been indicated on the date of the hearing, the special attorney shall make the selection and appointment.
§ 17.6
Examination of witness.
All testimony taken at the hearing shall be reduced to writing. Any interested party may cross-examine any witness. Attorneys and others will be required to adhere to the rules of evidence of the State of Oklahoma. If, in addition to oral testimony, affidavits or dispositions are introduced, they must be read, and any opposing claimant may require the presence of the affiant, if practicable, either at that or a subsequent hearing, and opportunity shall be given for cross-examination or for having counter interrogatories answered.
§ 17.7
Limiting number of witnesses.
When the evidence seems clear and conclusive, the special attorney may, in his discretion, limit the number of witnesses to be examined formally upon any matter.
§ 17.8
Supplemental hearing.
When it appears that a supplemental hearing is necessary to secure material evidence, such a hearing may be conducted after notice has been given to those persons on whom notice of the original hearing was served and to such other persons as the testimony taken at the original hearing indicates may have a possible interest in the estate.
§ 17.9
Briefs.
When there are two or more parties with conflicting interests, the party upon whom the burden of proof may fall may be allowed a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days following the conclusion of the hearing, in which to file a brief or other statement of his contentions, showing service on opposing counsel or litigant. The latter shall then be allowed not to exceed 20 days in which to file an answer brief or statement, and his opponent shall have
10 days thereafter to file a reply brief or statement. Upon proper showing the special attorney may grant extensions of time. Each brief or statement shall be filed in duplicate.
§ 17.10
Record.
After the hearing or hearings on the will have been terminated the special attorney shall make up the record and transmit it with his recommendation to the superintendent. The record shall contain:
(a) Copy of notices mailed to the attesting witnesses and the interested parties.
(b) Proof of mailing of notices.
(c) The evidence received at the hearing or hearings.
(d) The original of the will or wills considered at the hearings.
(e) A copy of all the pleadings.
The record, except the original will, shall be a part of the permanent files of the Osage Agency.
§ 17.11
Inspection of wills and approval as to form during testator's lifetime.
When a will has been executed and filed with the superintendent during the lifetime of the testator, the will shall be considered by the special attorney who may endorse on such will “approved as to form.” A will shall be held in absolute confidence and its contents shall not be divulged prior to the death of the testator.
§ 17.12
Approval.
After hearings have been concluded in conformity with this part the superintendent shall approve or disapprove the wills of deceased Osage Indians.
§ 17.13
Government employees as beneficiaries.
In considering the will of a deceased Osage Indian the superintendent may disapprove any will which names as a beneficiary thereunder a government employee who is not related to the testator by blood, or otherwise the natural object of the testator's bounty.
§ 17.14
Appeals.
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions in part 2 of this chapter concerning appeals generally from administrative actions, any appeal from the action of the superintendent of approving or disapproving a will shall be taken to the Secretary. Upon the superintendent's final action of approval or disapproval of a will, he shall immediately notify by mail all attorneys appearing in the case, together with interested parties who are not represented by attorneys, of his decision and of their right to file an appeal.
(b) Any party desiring to appeal from the action of the superintendent shall, within 15 days after the date of the mailing of notice of the decision file with the superintendent a notice in writing of his intention to appeal to the Secretary, and shall, within 30 days after the mailing date of such notice by the superintendent, perfect his appeal to the Secretary by service of the appeal upon the superintendent who will transmit the entire record to the Secretary. If no notice of intention to appeal is given within 15 days, the superintendent's decision will be final.
(c) Upon the filing of notice with the superintendent of intention to appeal or the perfecting of an appeal by service upon the superintendent, at the same time similar notice and service shall be effected by the party taking an appeal upon opposing counsel or litigants, and a statement included in the appeal that this has been done. A party taking an appeal may, within the same 30-day period allowed for perfecting an appeal, file a brief or other written statement of his contentions, showing also service of that brief upon opposing counsel or litigants. Opposing counsel or litigants shall have 30 days from the date of the service of appellant's brief upon them in which to file an answer brief, copies of which also shall be served upon the appellant or opposing counsel and litigants. Except by special permission, no other briefs will be allowed on appeal.
[26 FR 10930, Nov. 22, 1961]
Pt. 18

# PART 18—TRIBAL PROBATE CODES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
18.1
What is the purpose of this part?
18.2
What definitions do I need to know?

# Subpart B—Approval of Tribal Probate Codes
18.101
May a tribe create and adopt its own tribal probate code?
18.102
When must a tribe submit its tribal probate code to the Department for approval?
18.103
Which provisions within a tribal probate code require the Department's approval?
18.104
May a tribe include provisions in its tribal probate code regarding the descent and distribution of trust personalty?
18.105
How does a tribe request approval for a tribal probate code?
18.106
What will the Department consider in the approval process?
18.107
When will the Department approve or disapprove a tribal probate code?
18.108
What happens if the Department approves the tribal probate code?
18.109
How will a tribe be notified of the disapproval of a tribal probate code?
18.110
When will a tribal probate code become effective?
18.111
What will happen if a tribe repeals its probate code?
18.112
May a tribe appeal the approval or disapproval of a probate code?

# Subpart C—Approval of Tribal Probate Code Amendments
18.201
May a tribe amend a tribal probate code?
18.202
How does a tribe request approval for a tribal probate code amendment?
18.203
Which probate code amendments require approval?
18.204
When will the Department approve an amendment?
18.205
What happens if the Department approves the amendment?
18.206
How will the tribe be notified of disapproval of the amendment?
18.207
When do amendments to tribal probate codes become effective?
18.208
May a tribe appeal an approval or disapproval of a probate code amendment?

# Subpart D—Approval of Single Heir Rule
18.301
May a tribe create and adopt a single heir rule without adopting a tribal probate code?
18.302
How does the tribe request approval for the single heir rule?
18.303
When will the Department approve or disapprove a single heir rule?
18.304
What happens if the Department approves a single heir rule?
18.305
How will a tribe be notified of the disapproval of a single heir rule?
18.306
When does the single heir rule become effective?
18.307
May a tribe appeal approval or disapproval of a single heir rule?

# Subpart E—Information and Records
18.401
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 372-74, 410, 2201
et seq.;
44 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.;
25 CFR part 15; 43 CFR part 4.

# Source:
73 FR 67283, Nov. 13, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 18.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part establishes the Department's policies and procedures for reviewing and approving or disapproving tribal probate codes, amendments, and single heir rules that contain provisions regarding the descent and distribution of trust and restricted lands.
§ 18.2
What definitions do I need to know?
Act
means the Indian Land Consolidation Act and its amendments, including the American Indian Probate Reform Act of 2004 (AIPRA), Public Law 108-374, as codified at 25 U.S.C. 2201
et seq.
Day
means a calendar day.
Decedent
means a person who is deceased.
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Devise
means a gift of property by will. Also, to give property by will.
Devisee
means a person or entity that receives property under a will.
Indian
means, for the purposes of the Act:
(1) Any person who is a member of a federally recognized Indian tribe, is eligible to become a member of any federally recognized Indian tribe, or is an owner (as of October 27, 2004) of a trust or restricted interest in land;
(2) Any person meeting the definition of Indian under 25 U.S.C. 479; or
(3) With respect to the inheritance and ownership of trust or restricted land in the State of California under 25 U.S.C. 2206, any person described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this definition or any person who owns a trust or restricted interest in a parcel of such land in that State.
Intestate
means that the decedent died without a will.
OHA
means the Office of Hearings and Appeals within the Department of the Interior.
Restricted lands
means real property, the title to which is held by an Indian but which cannot be alienated or encumbered without the Secretary's consent. For the purpose of probate proceedings, restricted lands are treated as if they were trust lands. Except as the law may provide otherwise, the term “restricted lands” as used in this part does not include the restricted lands of the Five Civilized Tribes of Oklahoma or the Osage Nation.
Testator
means a person who has executed a will.
Trust lands
means real property, or an interest therein, the title to which is held in trust by the United States for the benefit of an individual Indian or tribe.
Trust personalty
means all tangible personal property, funds, and securities of any kind that are held in trust in an IIM account or otherwise supervised by the Secretary.
We
or
us
means the Secretary or an authorized representative of the Secretary.

# Subpart B—Approval of Tribal Probate Codes
§ 18.101
May a tribe create and adopt its own tribal probate code?
Yes. A tribe may create and adopt a tribal probate code.
§ 18.102
When must a tribe submit its tribal probate code to the Department for approval?
The tribe must submit its probate code to the Department for approval if the tribal probate code contains provisions regarding the descent and distribution of trust and restricted lands.
§ 18.103
Which provisions within a tribal probate code require the Department's approval?
Only those tribal probate code provisions regarding the descent and distribution of trust and restricted lands require the Department's approval.
§ 18.104
May a tribe include provisions in its tribal probate code regarding the distribution and descent of trust personalty?
No. All trust personalty will be distributed in accordance with the American Indian Probate Reform Act of 2004, as amended.
§ 18.105
How does a tribe request approval for a tribal probate code?
The tribe must submit the tribal probate code and a duly executed tribal resolution adopting the code to the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, Attn: Tribal Probate Code, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240, for review and approval or disapproval.
§ 18.106
What will the Department consider in the approval process?
A tribal probate code must meet the requirements of this section in order to receive our approval under this part.
(a) The code must be consistent with Federal law.
(b) The code must promote the policies of the Indian Land Consolidation Act (ILCA) Amendments of 2000, which are to:
(1) Prevent further fractionation;
(2) Consolidate fractional interests into useable parcels;
(3) Consolidate fractional interests to enhance tribal sovereignty;
(4) Promote tribal self-sufficiency and self-determination; and
(5) Reverse the effects of the allotment policy on Indian tribes.
(c) Unless the conditions in paragraph (d) of this section are met, the code must not prohibit the devise of an interest to:
(1) An Indian lineal descendant of the original allottee; or
(2) An Indian who is not a member of the Indian tribe with jurisdiction over the interest in the land.
(d) If the tribal probate code prohibits the devise of an interest to the devisees in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, then the code must:
(1) Allow those devisees to renounce their interests in favor of eligible devisees as defined by the tribal probate code;
(2) Allow a devisee who is the spouse or lineal descendant of the testator to
reserve a life estate without regard to waste; and
(3) Require the payment of fair market value as determined by the Department on the date of the decedent's death.
§ 18.107
When will the Department approve or disapprove a tribal probate code?
(a) We have 180 days from receipt by the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs of a submitted tribal probate code and duly executed tribal resolution adopting the tribal probate code to approve or disapprove a tribal probate code.
(b) If we do not meet the deadline in paragraph (a) of this section, the tribal probate code will be deemed approved, but only to the extent that it:
(1) Is consistent with Federal law; and
(2) Promotes the policies of the ILCA Amendments of 2000 as listed in § 18.106(b).
§ 18.108
What happens if the Department approves the tribal probate code?
Our approval applies only to those sections of the tribal probate code that govern the descent and distribution of trust or restricted land. We will notify the tribe of the approval and forward a copy of the tribal probate code to OHA.
§ 18.109
How will a tribe be notified of the disapproval of a tribal probate code?
If we disapprove a tribal probate code, we must provide the tribe with a written notification of the disapproval that includes an explanation of the reasons for the disapproval.
§ 18.110
When will a tribal probate code become effective?
(a) A tribal probate code may not become effective sooner than 180 days after the date of approval by the Department.
(b) If a tribal probate code is deemed approved through inaction by the Department, then the code will become effective 180 days after it is deemed approved.
(c) The tribal probate code will apply only to the estate of a decedent who dies on or after the effective date of the tribal probate code.
§ 18.111
What will happen if a tribe repeals its probate code?
If a tribe repeals its tribal probate code:
(a) The repeal will not become effective sooner than 180 days from the date we receive notification from the tribe of its decision to repeal the code; and
(b) We will forward a copy of the repeal to OHA.
§ 18.112
May a tribe appeal the approval or disapproval of a probate code?
No. There is no right of appeal within the Department from a decision to approve or disapprove a tribal probate code.

# Subpart C—Approval of Tribal Probate Code Amendments
§ 18.201
May a tribe amend a tribal probate code?
Yes. A tribe may amend a tribal probate code.
§ 18.202
How does a tribe request approval for a tribal probate code amendment?
To amend a tribal probate code, the tribe must follow the same procedures as for submitting a tribal probate code to the Department for approval.
§ 18.203
Which probate code amendments require approval?
Only those tribal probate code amendments regarding the descent and distribution of trust and restricted lands require the Department's approval.
§ 18.204
When will the Department approve an amendment?
(a) We have 60 days from receipt by the Assistant Secretary of a submitted amendment to approve or disapprove the amendment.
(b) If we do not meet the deadline in paragraphs (a) of this section, the amendment will be deemed approved, but only to the extent that it:
(1) Is consistent with Federal law; and
(2) Promotes the policies of the ILCA Amendments of 2000 as listed in § 18.106(b).
§ 18.205
What happens if the Department approves the amendment?
Our approval applies only to those sections of the amendment that contain provisions regarding the descent and distribution of trust or restricted land. We will notify the tribe of the approval and forward a copy of the amendment to OHA.
§ 18.206
How will a tribe be notified of the disapproval of an amendment?
If we disapprove an amendment, we must provide the tribe with a written notification of the disapproval that includes an explanation of the reasons for the disapproval.
§ 18.207
When do amendments to a tribal probate code become effective?
(a) An amendment may not become effective sooner than 180 days after the date of approval by the Department.
(b) If an amendment is deemed approved through inaction by the Department, then the amendment will become effective 180 days after it is deemed approved.
(c) The amendment will apply only to the estate of a decedent who dies on or after the effective date of the amendment.
§ 18.208
May a tribe appeal an approval or disapproval of a probate code amendment?
No. There is no right of appeal within the Department from a decision to approve or disapprove a tribal probate code amendment.

# Subpart D—Approval of Single Heir Rule
§ 18.301
May a tribe create and adopt a single heir rule without adopting a tribal probate code?
Yes. A tribe may create and adopt a single heir rule for intestate succession. The single heir rule may specify a single recipient other than the one specified in 25 U.S.C. 2206(a)(2)(D).
§ 18.302
How does the tribe request approval for the single heir rule?
The tribe must follow the same procedures as for submitting a tribal probate code to the Department for approval.
§ 18.303
When will the Department approve or disapprove a single heir rule?
We have 90 days from receipt by the Assistant Secretary of a single heir rule submitted separate from a tribal probate code to approve or disapprove a single heir rule.
§ 18.304
What happens if the Department approves the single heir rule?
If we approve the single heir rule, we will notify the tribe of the approval and forward a copy of the single heir rule to OHA.
§ 18.305
How will a tribe be notified of the disapproval of a single heir rule?
If we disapprove a single heir rule, we must provide the tribe with a written notification of the disapproval that includes an explanation of the reasons for the disapproval.
§ 18.306
When does the single heir rule become effective?
(a) A single heir rule may not become effective sooner than 180 days after the date of approval by the Department.
(b) If a single heir rule is deemed approved through inaction by the Department, then the single heir rule will become effective 180 days after it is deemed approved.
(c) The single heir rule will apply only to the estate of a decedent who dies on or after the effective date of the single heir rule.
§ 18.307
May a tribe appeal approval or disapproval of a single heir rule?
No. There is no right of appeal within the Department from a decision to approve or disapprove a single heir rule.

# Subpart E—Information and Records
§ 18.401
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?
The collection of information contained in this part has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.,
and assigned OMB
Control Number 1076-0168. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and members of the public are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless the form or regulation requesting the information displays a currently valid OMB Control Number.

# SUBCHAPTER D—HUMAN SERVICES
Pt. 20

# PART 20—FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SERVICES PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—Definitions, Purpose and Policy
Sec.
20.100
What definitions clarify the meaning of the provisions of this part?
20.101
What is the purpose of this part?
20.102
What is the Bureau's policy in providing financial assistance and social services under this part?
20.103
Have the information collection requirements in this part been approved by the Office of Management and Budget?

# Subpart B—Welfare Reform
20.200
What contact will the Bureau maintain with State, tribal, county, local, and other Federal agency programs?
20.201
How does the Bureau designate a service area and what information is required?
20.202
What is a tribal redesign plan?
20.203
Can a tribe incorporate assistance from other sources into a tribal redesign plan?
20.204
Must all tribes submit a tribal redesign plan?
20.205
Can tribes change eligibility criteria or levels of payments for General Assistance?
20.206
Must a tribe get approval for a tribal redesign plan?
20.207
Can a tribe use savings from a tribal redesign plan to meet other priorities of the tribe?
20.208
What if the tribal redesign plan leads to increased costs?
20.209
Can a tribe operating under a tribal redesign plan go back to operating under this part?
20.210
Can eligibility criteria or payments for Burial Assistance, Child Assistance, and Disaster Assistance and Emergency Assistance change?

# Subpart C—Direct Assistance

# Eligibility for Direct Assistance
20.300
Who qualifies for Direct Assistance under this subpart?
20.301
What is the goal of General Assistance?
20.302
Are Indian applicants required to seek assistance through Temporary Assistance for Needy Families?
20.303
When is an applicant eligible for General Assistance?
20.304
When will the Bureau review eligibility for General Assistance?
20.305
What is redetermination?
20.306
What is the payment standard for General Assistance?

# Determining Need and Income
20.307
What resources does the Bureau consider when determining need?
20.308
What does earned income include?
20.309
What does unearned income include?
20.310
What recurring income must be prorated?
20.311
What amounts will the Bureau deduct from earned income?
20.312
What amounts will the Bureau deduct from income or other resources?
20.313
How will the Bureau compute financial assistance payments?

# Employment Requirements
20.314
What is the policy on employment?
20.315
Who is not covered by the employment policy?
20.316
What must a person covered by the employment policy do?
20.317
How will the ineligibility period be implemented?
20.318
What case management responsibilities does the social services worker have?
20.319
What responsibilities does the general assistance recipient have?

# Tribal Work Experience Program (TWEP)
20.320
What is TWEP?
20.321
Does TWEP allow an incentive payment?
20.322
Who can receive a TWEP incentive payment?
20.323
Will the local TWEP be required to have written program procedures?

# Burial Assistance
20.324
When can the Bureau provide Burial Assistance?
20.325
Who can apply for Burial Assistance?
20.326
Does Burial Assistance cover transportation costs?

# Disaster Assistance
20.327
When can the Bureau provide Disaster Assistance?
20.328
How can a tribe apply for Disaster Assistance?

# Emergency Assistance
20.329
When can the Bureau provide Emergency Assistance payments?
20.330
What is the payment standard for Emergency Assistance?

# Adult Care Assistance
20.331
What is Adult Care Assistance?
20.332
Who can receive Adult Care Assistance?
20.333
How do I apply for Adult Care Assistance?
20.334
What happens after I apply?
20.335
What is the payment standard for Adult Care Assistance?

# Subpart D—Services to Children, Elderly, and Families
20.400
Who should receive Services to Children, Elderly, and Families?
20.401
What is included under Services to Children, Elderly, and Families?
20.402
When are protective services provided?
20.403
What do protective services include?
20.404
What information is contained in a social services assessment?

# Subpart E—Child Assistance
20.500
Who is eligible for Child Assistance?

# How Child Assistance Funds Can Be Used
20.501
What services can be paid for with Child Assistance funds?
20.502
Can Child Assistance funds be used to place Indian children in residential care facilities?
20.503
When can Child Assistance funds be used for Indian adoption or guardianship subsidies?
20.504
What short-term homemaker services can Child Assistance pay for?
20.505
What services are provided jointly with the Child Assistance Program?

# Foster Care
20.506
What information is required in the foster care case file?
20.507
What requirements must foster care providers meet?
20.508
What must the social services agency do when a child is placed in foster care, residential care or guardianship home?
20.509
What must the social services worker do when a child is placed in foster care or residential care facility?
20.510
How is the court involved in child placements?
20.511
Should permanency plans be developed?
20.512
Can the Bureau/tribal contractors make Indian adoptive placements?
20.513
Should Interstate Compacts be used for the placement of children?
20.514
What assistance can the courts request from social services on behalf of children?
20.515
What is required for case management?
20.516
How are child abuse, neglect or exploitation cases to be handled?

# Subpart F—Administrative Procedures
20.600
Who can apply for financial assistance or social services?
20.601
How can applications be submitted?
20.602
How does the Bureau verify eligibility for social services?
20.603
How is an application approved or denied?
20.604
How is an applicant or recipient notified that benefits or services are denied or changed?
20.605
What happens when an applicant or recipient appeals a decision under this subpart?
20.606
How is an incorrect payment adjusted or recovered?
20.607
What happens when applicants or recipients knowingly and willfully provide false or fraudulent information?

# Subpart G—Hearings and Appeals
20.700
Can an applicant or recipient appeal the decision of a Bureau official?
20.701
Does a recipient receive financial assistance while an appeal is pending?
20.702
When is an appeal hearing scheduled?
20.703
What must the written notice of hearing include?
20.704
Who conducts the hearing or appeal of a Bureau decision or action and what is the process?
20.705
Can an applicant or recipient appeal a tribal decision?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 13; Pub. L. 93-638; Pub. L. 98-473; Pub. L. 102-477; Pub. L. 104-193; Pub. L. 105-83.

# Source:
65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Definitions, Purpose and Policy
§ 20.100
What definitions clarify the meaning of the provisions of this part?
Adult
means an Indian person age 18 or older.
Adult care assistance
means financial assistance provided on behalf of an Indian adult who is not eligible for any other state, federal, or tribal assistance as documented in the case file and who requires non-medical personal care and supervision due to advanced age, infirmity, physical condition or mental impairment.
Appeal
means a written request for correction of an action or decision of a specific program decision by a Bureau
official (§ 20.700) or a tribal official (§ 20.705).
Applicant
means an Indian individual by or on whose behalf an application for financial assistance and/or social services has been made under this part.
Application
means the written or oral process through which a request is made for financial assistance or social services.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs.
Authorized representative
means a parent or other caretaker relative, conservator, legal guardian, foster parent, attorney, paralegal acting under the supervision of an attorney, friend or other spokesperson duly authorized and acting on behalf or representing the applicant or recipient.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the United States Department of the Interior.
Bureau Standard of Assistance
means payment standards established by the Assistant Secretary for burial, disaster, emergency, TWEP and adoption and guardian subsidy. In accordance with Public Law 104-193, the Bureau standard of assistance for general assistance is the state rate for TANF in the state where the applicant resides. Where the Bureau provides general assistance on a reservation that extends into another state, the Bureau will provide general assistance to eligible Indians based on the standard of assistance where the applicant resides if the applicant is not eligible for state general assistance or TANF. The Bureau standard of assistance for adult care assistance is the state rate for adult care assistance in the state where the applicant resides. The Bureau standard of assistance for foster care is the state rate for foster care in the state where the applicant resides as provided by Title IV of the Social Security Act (49 Stat. 620).
Burial assistance
means a financial assistance payment made on behalf of an indigent Indian who meets the eligibility criteria to provide minimum burial expenses according to Bureau payment standards established by the Assistant Secretary.
Case
means a single type of assistance and/or service provided to an individual or household in response to an identified need which requires intervention by social services.
Case management
means the activity of a social services worker in assessing client and family problem(s), case planning, coordinating and linking services for clients, monitoring service provisions and client progress, advocacy, tracking and evaluating services provided, such as evaluation of child's treatment being concurrent with parent's treatment, and provision of aftercare service. Activities may also include resource development and providing other direct services such as accountability of funds, data collection, reporting requirements, and documenting activities in the case file.
Case plan
means a written plan with time limited goals which is developed and signed by the service recipient and social services worker. The case plan will include documentation of referral and disapproval of eligibility for other services. The plan must incorporate the steps needed to assist individuals and families to resolve social, economic, psychological, interpersonal, and/or other problems, to achieve self-sufficiency and independence. All plans for children in foster care or residential care must include a permanency plan which contains a time specific goal of the return of the child to the natural parents or initiation of a guardianship/adoption.
Child
means an Indian person under the age of 18 except that no person who has been emancipated by marriage will be deemed a child.
Child assistance
means financial assistance provided on behalf of an Indian child, who has special needs as specified in § 20.100. In addition, assistance includes services to a child who requires placement in a foster home or a residential care facility in accordance with standards of payment levels established by the state or county in which the child resides. Further, assistance includes services to a child in need of adoption or guardianship in accordance with payment levels established by the Assistant Secretary.
Designated representative
means an official of the Bureau who is designated by a Superintendent to hold a hearing as prescribed in §§ 20.700 through 20.705 and who has had no prior involvement
in the proposed decision under § 20.603 and whose hearing decision under §§ 20.700 through 20.705 will have the same force and effect as if rendered by the Superintendent.
Disaster
means a situation where a tribal community is adversely affected by a natural disaster or other forces which pose a threat to life, safety, or health as specified in §§ 20.327 and 20.328.
Emergency
means a situation where an individual or family's home and personal possessions are either destroyed or damaged through forces beyond their control as specified in § 20.329.
Employable
means an eligible Indian person who is physically and mentally able to obtain employment, and who is not exempt from seeking employment in accordance with the criteria specified in § 20.315.
Essential needs
means shelter, food, clothing and utilities, as included in the standard of assistance in the state where the eligible applicant lives.
Extended family
means persons related by blood, marriage or as defined by tribal law or custom.
Family assessment
means a social services assessment of a family's history and present abilities and resources to provide the necessary care, guidance and supervision for individuals within the family's current living situation who may need social service assistance and/or services.
Financial Assistance
means any of the following forms of assistance not provided by other federal, state, local or tribal sources:
(1) Adult Care Assistance for adults who require non-medical personal care and supervision;
(2) Burial Assistance for indigent burials;
(3) Child Assistance for any child with special needs, in need of placement in a foster home or residential care facility, or in need of adoption or guardianship;
(4) Disaster Assistance;
(5) Emergency Assistance for essential needs to prevent hardship caused by burnout, flooding of homes, or other life threatening situations that may cause loss or damage of personal possessions;
(6) General Assistance for basic essential needs; or
(7) Tribal Work Experience Program for participants in work experience and training.
Foster care services
means those social services provided to an eligible Indian child that is removed from his or her home due to neglect, abandonment, abuse or other maltreatment and placed in a foster home. Services must also be extended to the affected family members and foster parent(s) with a goal of reuniting and preserving the family.
General Assistance
means financial assistance payments to an eligible Indian for essential needs provided under §§ 20.300 through 20.319.
Guardianship
means long-term, social services and court approved placement of a child.
Head of household
means a person in the household that has primary responsibility and/or obligation for the financial support of others in the household. In the case of a two parent household, one will be considered the head of household for the purpose of making an application for benefits.
Homemaker services
means non-medical services provided by social services, in the absence of other resources, to assist an eligible Indian in maintaining self-sufficiency, and preventing placement into foster care or residential care. Examples of services included in homemaker services are: cleaning an individual's home, preparing meals for an individual, and maintaining or performing basic household functions.
Household
means persons living together who may or may not be related to the “head of household.”
Indian
means:
(1) Any person who is a member of an Indian tribe; or
(2) In the Alaska service area only, any person who meets the definition of “Native” as defined under 43 U.S.C. 1602(b): “A citizen of the United States and one-fourth degree or more Alaska Indian (including Tsimshian Indians not enrolled in the Metlakatla Indian Community) Eskimo, or Aleut blood, or combination thereof. The term includes any Native as so defined either or both of whose adoptive parents are
not Natives. It also includes, in the absence of proof of a minimum blood quantum, any citizen of the United States who is regarded as an Alaska Native by the Native village or Native group of which he claims to be a member and whose father or mother is (or, if deceased, was) regarded as Native by any village or group. Any decision of the Secretary regarding eligibility for enrollment shall be final.”
Indian court
means Indian tribal court or Court of Indian Offenses.
Indian tribe
means an Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, or community which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States because of their status as Indians.
Individual Self-sufficiency Plan (ISP)
means a plan designed to meet the goal of employment through specific action steps and is incorporated within the case plan for the general assistance recipient. The plan is jointly developed and signed by the recipient and social services worker.
Near Reservation
means those areas or communities designated by the Assistant Secretary that are adjacent or contiguous to reservations where financial assistance and social service programs are provided.
Need
means the deficit after consideration of income and other resources necessary to meet the cost of essential need items and special need items as defined by the Bureau standard of assistance for the state in which the applicant or recipient resides.
Permanency plan
means the documentation in a case plan which provides for permanent living alternatives for the child in foster care, a residential care facility, or in need of adoption or guardianship. Permanency plans are developed and implemented in accordance with tribal, cultural, and tribal/state legal standards when the parent or guardian is unable to resolve the issues that require out-of-home placement of the child.
Protective services
means those services necessary to protect an Indian who is the victim of an alleged and/or substantiated incident of abuse, neglect or exploitation or who is under the supervision of the Bureau in regard to the use and disbursement of funds in his or her Individual Indian Money (IIM) account.
Public assistance
means those programs of financial assistance provided by state, tribal, county, local and federal organizations including programs under Title IV of the Social Security Act (49 Stat. 620), as amended, and Public Law 104-193.
Recipient
is an eligible Indian receiving financial assistance or social services under this part.
Recurring income
means any cash or in-kind payment, earned or unearned, received on a monthly, quarterly, semiannual, or annual basis.
Regional Director
means the Bureau official in charge of a Regional Office.
Reservation
means any federally recognized Indian tribe's reservation, pueblo, or colony, including Alaska Native regions established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688).
Residential care services
means those rehabilitation services provided to an eligible Indian child that is removed from his or her home due to lack of resources in the home to care for him or her and placed in a residential care facility.
Resources
means income, both earned and unearned, and other liquid assets available to an Indian person or household to meet current living costs, unless otherwise specifically excluded by federal statute. Liquid assets are those properties in the form of cash or other financial instruments which can be converted to cash, such as savings or checking accounts, promissory notes, mortgages and similar properties, and retirements and annuities.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
Service area
means a geographic area designated by the Assistant Secretary where financial assistance and social services programs are provided. Such a geographic area designation can include a reservation, near reservation, or other geographic location. “The Assistant Secretary has designated the entire State of Alaska as a service area.”
Services to children, elderly and families
means social services, including protective services provided through the
social work skills of casework, group work or community development to assist in solving social problems involving children, elderly and families. These services do not include money payments.
Special needs
means a financial assistance payment made to or on behalf of children under social services supervision for circumstances that warrant financial assistance that is not included in the foster care rates; for example, respite care, homemaker service, day care service, and may include basic needs (special diets) which are not considered as a medical need where other resources are not available.
Superintendent
means the Bureau official in charge of an agency office.
Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
means cash assistance provided under Title XVI of the Social Security Act (49 Stat. 620), as amended.
Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)
means one of the programs of financial assistance provided under the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (PRWORA).
Tribal governing body
means the federally recognized governing body of an Indian tribe.
Tribal redesign plan
means a tribally designed method for changing general assistance eligibility and/or payment levels in accordance with 25 U.S.C.A. § 13d-3.
Tribal Work Experience Program (TWEP)
means a program operated by tribal contract/grant or self-governance annual funding agreement, which provides eligible participants with work experience and training that promotes and preserves work habits and develops work skills aimed toward self-sufficiency. The Bureau payment standard is established by the Assistant Secretary.
Unemployable
means a person who meets the criteria specified in § 20.315.
[65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000; 65 FR 76563, Dec. 7, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 15030, Mar. 15, 2001]
§ 20.101
What is the purpose of this part?
The regulations in this part govern the provision to eligible Indians of the following kinds of financial assistance and social services:
(a) Adult Care Assistance;
(b) Burial Assistance;
(c) Child Assistance;
(d) Disaster Assistance;
(e) Emergency Assistance;
(f) General Assistance;
(g) Services to Children, Elderly and Families; and
(h) Tribal Work Experience Program.
§ 20.102
What is the Bureau's policy in providing financial assistance and social services under this part?
(a) Bureau social services programs are a secondary, or residual resource, and must not be used to supplement or supplant other programs.
(b) The Bureau can provide assistance under this part to eligible Indians when comparable financial assistance or social services are either not available or not provided by state, tribal, county, local or other federal agencies.
(c) Bureau financial assistance and social services are subject to annual Congressional appropriations.
§ 20.103
Have the information collection requirements in this part been approved by the Office of Management and Budget?
The information collection requirements contained in §§ 20.300, 20.400, and 20.500 were submitted for clearance to the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 35d
et seq.
This information collection was approved by OMB with OMB Control #1076-0017. The expiration date is on the form. The information is collected to determine applicant eligibility for services. The information will be used to determine applicant eligibility and to insure uniformity of services. Response is required to obtain a benefit. The public reporting burdens for this form are estimated to average 15 minutes per response including time for reviewing the instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the form.

# Subpart B—Welfare Reform
§ 20.200
What contact will the Bureau maintain with State, tribal, county, local, and other Federal agency programs?
We will coordinate all financial assistance and social services programs
with state, tribal, county, local and other federal agency programs to ensure that the financial assistance and social services program avoids duplication of assistance.
§ 20.201
How does the Bureau designate a service area and what information is required?
The Assistant Secretary can designate or modify service areas for a tribe. If you are a tribe requesting a service area designation, you must submit each of the following:
(a) A tribal resolution that certifies that:
(1) All eligible Indians residing within the service area will be served; and
(2) The proposed service area will not include counties or parts thereof that have reasonably available comparable services.
(b) Additional documentation showing that:
(1) The area is administratively feasible (that is, an adequate level of services can be provided to the eligible Indians residing in the area.);
(2) No duplication of services exists; and
(3) A plan describing how services will be provided to all eligible Indians can be implemented.
(c) Documentation should be sent to the Regional Director or Office of Self-Governance.
The Director or office will evaluate the information and make recommendations to the Assistant Secretary. The Assistant Secretary can make a determination to approve or disapprove and publish notice of the designation of service area and the Indians to be served in the
Federal Register.
Tribes currently providing services are not required to request designation for service areas unless they make a decision to modify their existing service areas.
§ 20.202
What is a tribal redesign plan?
If you are a tribe administering a general assistance program, you can develop and submit to us a tribal redesign plan to change the way that you administer the program.
(a) A tribal redesign plan allows a tribe to:
(1) Change eligibility for general assistance in the service area; or
(2) Change the amount of general assistance payments for individuals within the service area.
(b) If you develop a tribal redesign plan it must:
(1) Treat all persons in the same situation equally; and
(2) Will not result in additional expenses for the Bureau solely because of any increased level of payments.
§ 20.203
Can a tribe incorporate assistance from other sources into a tribal redesign plan?
Yes, when a tribe redesigns its general assistance program, it may include assistance from other sources (such as Public Law 102-477 federal funding sources) in the plan.
§ 20.204
Must all tribes submit a tribal redesign plan?
No, you must submit a tribal redesign plan under § 20.206 only if you want to change the way that the General Assistance program operates in your service area.
§ 20.205
Can tribes change eligibility criteria or levels of payments for General Assistance?
Yes, if you have a redesign plan, you can change eligibility criteria or levels of payment for general assistance.
(a) The funding level for your redesigned general assistance program will be the same funding received in the most recent fiscal or calendar year, whichever applies.
(b) If you do not have a prior year level of funding, the Bureau or Office of Self-Governance will establish a tentative funding level based upon best estimates for caseload and expenditures.
(c) A Bureau servicing office can administer a tribal redesign plan as requested by a tribal resolution.
§ 20.206
Must a tribe get approval for a tribal redesign plan?
If you have a Public Law 93-638 contract or receive direct services from us, you must obtain our approval before implementing a redesign plan. You can apply for approval to the Regional Director through the Bureau servicing office.
(a) You must submit your redesign plan for approval at least 3 months before the effective date.
(b) If you operate with a self-governance annual funding agreement, you must obtain the approval of the redesign from the Office of Self-Governance.
(c) If you operate with a Public Law 102-477 grant, you must obtain approval from the Bureau Central Office.
[65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000; 65 FR 76563, Dec. 7, 2000]
§ 20.207
Can a tribe use savings from a tribal redesign plan to meet other priorities of the tribe?
Yes, you may use savings from a redesign of the general assistance program to meet other priorities.
§ 20.208
What if the tribal redesign plan leads to increased costs?
The tribe must meet any increase in cost to the General Assistance program that results solely from tribally increased payment levels due to a redesign plan.
§ 20.209
Can a tribe operating under a tribal redesign plan go back to operating under this part?
Yes, a tribe operating under a tribal redesign plan can choose to return to operation of the program as provided in §§ 20.300 through 20.323.
§ 20.210
Can eligibility criteria or payments for Burial Assistance, Child Assistance, and Disaster Assistance and Emergency Assistance change?
No, unless otherwise provided by law, the Bureau nor a tribe may change eligibility criteria or levels of payment for Burial Assistance, Child Assistance, Disaster Assistance, and Emergency Assistance awarded in Public Law 93-638 contracts, Public Law 102-477 grants, or Public Law 103-413 self-governance annual funding agreements.

# Subpart C—Direct Assistance

# Eligibility for Direct Assistance
§ 20.300
Who qualifies for Direct Assistance under this subpart?
To be eligible for assistance or services under this part, an applicant must meet all of the following criteria:
(a) Meet the definition of Indian as defined in this part;
(b) Not have sufficient resources to meet the essential need items defined by the Bureau standard of assistance for those Bureau programs providing financial payment;
(c) Reside in the service area as defined in § 20.100; and
(d) Meet the additional eligibility criteria for each of the specific programs of financial assistance or social services in §§ 20.301 through 20.516.
[65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 15030, Mar. 15, 2001]
§ 20.301
What is the goal of General Assistance?
The goal of the General Assistance program is to increase self-sufficiency. Each General Assistance recipient must work with the social services worker to develop and sign an Individual Self-Sufficiency Plan (ISP). The plan must outline the specific steps the individual will take to increase independence by meeting the goal of employment.
§ 20.302
Are Indian applicants required to seek assistance through Temporary Assistance for Needy Families?
Yes, all Indian applicants with dependent children are required to apply for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and follow TANF regulations.
§ 20.303
When is an applicant eligible for General Assistance?
To be eligible for General Assistance an applicant must:
(a) Meet the criteria contained in § 20.300;
(b) Apply concurrently for financial assistance from other state, tribal, county, local, or other federal agency programs for which he/she is eligible;
(c) Not receive any comparable public assistance; and
(d) Develop and sign an employment strategy in the ISP with the assistance of the social services worker to meet the goal of employment through specific action steps including job readiness and job search activities.
§ 20.304
When will the Bureau review eligibility for General Assistance?
The Bureau will review eligibility for General Assistance:
(a) Every 3 months for individuals who are not exempt from seeking or accepting employment in accordance with § 20.315 or the ISP;
(b) Every 6 months for all recipients; and
(c) Whenever there is a change in status that can affect a recipient's eligibility or amount of assistance. Recipients must immediately inform the social services office of any such changes.
§ 20.305
What is redetermination?
Redetermination is an evaluation by a social services worker to assess the need for continued financial assistance as outlined in § 20.304. It includes:
(a) A home visit;
(b) An estimate of income, living circumstances, household composition for the month(s) for which financial assistance is to be provided; and
(c) Appropriate revisions to the case plan and the ISP.
§ 20.306
What is the payment standard for General Assistance?
(a) Under Public Law 104-193, the Bureau must use the same TANF payment standard (and any associated rateable reduction) that exists in the state or service area where the applicant or recipient resides. This payment standard is the amount from which the Bureau subtracts net income and resources to determine General Assistance eligibility and payment levels;
(b) If the state does not have a standard for an adult, we will use either the difference between the standard for a child and the standard for a household of two, or one-half of the standard for a household of two, whichever is greater; and
(c) If the state does not have a TANF program, we will use the AFDC payment standard which was in effect on September 30, 1995, in the State where the applicant or recipient resides.

# Determining Need and Income
§ 20.307
What resources does the Bureau consider when determining need?
When the Bureau determines General Assistance eligibility and payment levels, we consider income and other resources as specified in §§ 20.308 and 20.309.
(a) All income, earned or unearned, must be calculated in the month it is received and as a resource thereafter, except that certain income obtained from the sale of real or personal property may be exempt as provided in § 20.309.
(b) Resources are considered to be available when they are converted to cash.
§ 20.308
What does earned income include?
Earned income is cash or any in-kind payment earned in the form of wages, salary, commissions, or profit, from activities by an employee or self-employed individual. Earned income includes:
(a) Any one-time payment to an individual for activities which were sustained over a period of time (for example, the sale of farm crops, livestock, or professional artists producing art work); and
(b) With regard to self-employment, total profit from a business enterprise (i.e., gross receipts less expenses incurred in producing the goods or services). Business expenses do not include depreciation, personal business and entertainment expenses, personal transportation, capital equipment purchases, or principal payments on loans for capital assets or durable goods.
§ 20.309
What does unearned income include?
Unearned income includes, but is not limited to:
(a) Income from interest; oil and gas and other mineral royalties; gaming income per capita distributions; rental property; cash contributions, such as child support and alimony, gaming winnings; retirement benefits;
(b) Annuities, veteran's disability, unemployment benefits, and federal and state tax refunds;
(c) Per capita payments not excluded by federal statute;
(d) Income from sale of trust land and real or personal property that is set aside for reinvestment in trust land or a primary residence, but has not been reinvested in trust land or a primary residence at the end of one year from the date the income was received;
(e) In-kind contributions providing shelter at no cost to the individual or household, this must equal the amount for shelter included in the state standard, or 25 percent of the state standard, whichever is less; and
(f) Financial assistance provided by a state, tribal, county, local, or other federal agency.
§ 20.310
What recurring income must be prorated?
The social services worker will prorate the following recurring income:
(a) Recurring income received by individuals over a 12-month period for less than a full year's employment (for example, income earned by teachers who are not employed for a full year);
(b) Income received by individuals employed on a contractual basis over the term of a contract; and
(c) Intermittent income received quarterly, semiannually, or yearly over the period covered by the income.
§ 20.311
What amounts will the Bureau deduct from earned income?
(a) The social services worker will deduct the following amounts from earned income:
(1) Other federal, state, and local taxes;
(2) Social Security (FICA);
(3) Health insurance;
(4) Work related expenses, including reasonable transportation costs;
(5) Child care costs for children under the age of 6 except where the other parent in the home is unemployed and physically able to care for the children; and
(6) The cost of special clothing, tools, and equipment directly related to the individual's employment.
(b) For self-employed individuals, the social services worker will deduct the costs of conducting business and all of the amounts in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 20.312
What amounts will the Bureau deduct from income or other resources?
The social services worker will deduct the following amounts from income, or other resources:
(a) The first $2,000 of liquid resources annually available to the household;
(b) Any home produce from a garden, livestock, and poultry used by the applicant or recipient and his/her household for their consumption; and
(c) Resources specifically excluded by federal statute.
§ 20.313
How will the Bureau compute financial assistance payments?
(a) The social services worker will compute financial assistance payments by beginning with the Bureau standard of assistance and doing the following:
(1) Subtracting from all resources calculated under §§ 20.307 through 20.310;
(2) Subtracting the rateable reduction or maximum payment level used by the state where the applicant lives;
(3) Subtracting an amount for shelter (see paragraph (b) of this section for details on how to calculate a shelter amount); and
(4) Rounding the result down to the next lowest dollar.
(b) The social services worker must calculate a shelter amount for purposes of paragraph (a)(3) of this section. To calculate the shelter amount:
(1) The shelter amount must not exceed the amount for shelter in the state TANF standard;
(2) If the state TANF does not specify an amount for shelter, the social services worker must calculate the amount as 25 percent of the total state TANF payment; and
(3) If there is more than one household in a dwelling, the social services worker must prorate the actual shelter cost among the households receiving General Assistance; this amount cannot exceed the amount in the standard for individuals in similar circumstances. The head of each household is responsible for his/her portion of the documented shelter cost.
(c) The social services worker must not provide General Assistance payments for any period before the date of the application for assistance.

# Employment Requirements
§ 20.314
What is the policy on employment?
(a) An applicant or recipient must:
(1) Actively seek employment, including the use of available state, tribal, county, local or Bureau-funded employment services;
(2) Make satisfactory progress in an ISP; and
(3) Accept local and seasonable employment when it is available.
(b) A head of household who does not comply with this section will not be eligible for General Assistance for a period of at least 60 days but not more than 90 days. This action must be documented in the case file.
(c) The policy in this section does not apply to any person meeting the criteria in § 20.315.
§ 20.315
Who is not covered by the employment policy?
The employment policy in § 20.314 does not apply to the persons shown in the following table.
The employment policy in § 20.314 does not apply to . . .
if . . .
and . . .
(a) Anyone younger than 16
(b) A full-student under the age of 19
He/she is attending an elementary or secondary school or a vocational or technical school equivalent to a secondary school
He/she is making satisfactory progress.
(c) A person enrolled at least half-time in a program of study under Section 5404 of Pub. L. 100-297
He/she is making satisfactory progress
He/she was an active General Assistance recipient for a minimum of 3 months before determination/redetermination of eligibility.
(d) A person suffering from a temporary medical injury or illness
It is documented in the case plan that the illness or injury is serious enough to temporarily prevent employment
He/she must be referred to SSI if the disability status exceeds 3 months.
(e) An incapacitated person who has not yet received Supplemental Security Income (SSI) assistance
A physician, psychologist, or social services worker certifies that a physical or mental impairment (either by itself, or in conjunction with age) prevents the individual from being employed
The assessment is documented in the case plan.
(f) A caretaker who is responsible for a person in the home who has a physical or mental impairment
A physician or certified psychologist verifies the condition
The case plan documents that: the condition requires the caretaker to be home on a virtually continuous basis; and there is no other appropriate household member available to provide this care.
(g) A parent or other individual who does not have access to child care
He/she personally provides full-time care to a child under the age of 6
(h) A person for whom employment is not accessible
There is a minimum commuting time of one hour each way
§ 20.316
What must a person covered by the employment policy do?
(a) If you are covered by the employment policy in § 20.314, you must seek employment and provide evidence of your monthly efforts to obtain employment in accordance with your ISP.
(b) If you do not seek and accept available local and seasonal employment, or you quit a job without good cause, you cannot receive General Assistance for a period of at least 60 days but not more than 90 days after you refuse or quit a job.
§ 20.317
How will the ineligibility period be implemented?
(a) If you refuse or quit a job, your ineligibility period will continue as provided in § 20.316(b) until you seek and accept appropriate available local and seasonal employment and fulfill your obligations already agreed to in the ISP;
(b) The Bureau will reduce your suspension period by 30 days when you show that you have sought local and seasonal employment in accordance with the ISP; and
(c) Your eligibility suspension will affect only you. The Bureau will not apply it to other eligible members of the household.
§ 20.318
What case management responsibilities does the social services worker have?
In working with each recipient, you, the social services worker must:
(a) Assess the general employability of the recipient;
(b) Assist the recipient in the development of the ISP;
(c) Sign the ISP;
(d) Help the recipient identify the service(s) needed to meet the goals identified in their ISP;
(e) Monitor recipient participation in work related training and other employment assistance programs; and
(f) Document activities in the case file.
§ 20.319
What responsibilities does the general assistance recipient have?
In working with the social services worker, you, the recipient, must:
(a) Participate with the social services worker in developing an ISP and sign the ISP;
(b) Perform successfully in the work related activities, community service, training and/or other employment assistance programs developed in the ISP;
(c) Participate successfully in treatment and counseling services identified in the ISP;
(d) Participate in evaluations of job readiness and/or any other testing required for employment purposes; and
(e) Demonstrate that you are actively seeking employment by providing the social services worker with evidence of job search activities as required in the ISP.

# Tribal Work Experience Program (TWEP)
§ 20.320
What is TWEP?
TWEP is a program that provides work experience and job skills to enhance potential job placement for the general assistance recipient. TWEP programs can be incorporated within Public Law 93-638 self-determination contracts, Public Law 102-477 grants, and Public Law 103-413 self-governance annual funding agreements at the request of the tribe.
§ 20.321
Does TWEP allow an incentive payment?
Yes, incentive payments to participants are allowed under TWEP.
(a) Incentive payments are separate. The Bureau will not consider incentive payments as wages or work related expenses, but as grant assistance payments under §§ 20.320 through 20.323.
(b) The approved payment will not exceed the Bureau maximum TWEP payment standard established by the Assistant Secretary.
§ 20.322
Who can receive a TWEP incentive payment?
(a) The head of the family unit normally receives the TWEP assistance payment.
(b) The social services worker can designate a spouse or other adult in the assistance group to receive the TWEP assistance payment. The social services worker will do this only if:
(1) The recognized head of the family unit is certified as unemployable; and
(2) The designation is consistent with the ISP.
(c) Where there are multiple family units in one household, one member of each family unit will be eligible to receive the TWEP incentive payment.
§ 20.323
Will the local TWEP be required to have written program procedures?
Yes, the local TWEP must have specific written program procedures that cover hours of work, acceptable reasons for granting leave from work, evaluation criteria and monitoring
plans and ISP's for participants. Work readiness progress must be documented in each ISP.

# Burial Assistance
§ 20.324
When can the Bureau provide Burial Assistance?
In the absence of other resources, the Bureau can provide Burial Assistance for eligible indigent Indians meeting the requirements prescribed in § 20.300.
§ 20.325
Who can apply for Burial Assistance?
If you are a relative of a deceased Indian, you can apply for burial assistance for the deceased Indian under this section.
(a) To apply for burial assistance under this section, you must submit the application to the social services worker. You must submit this application within 180 days following death.
(b) The Bureau will determine eligibility based on the income and resources available to the deceased in accordance with § 20.100. This includes but is not limited to SSI, veterans' death benefits, social security, and Individual Indian Money (IIM) accounts. Determination of need will be accomplished on a case-by-case basis using the Bureau payment standard.
(c) The Bureau will not approve an application unless it meets the criteria specified at § 20.300.
(d) The approved payment will not exceed the Bureau maximum burial payment standard established by the Assistant Secretary.
[65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000, as amended at 81 FR 10477, Mar. 1, 2016]
§ 20.326
Does Burial Assistance cover transportation costs?
Transportation costs directly associated with burials are normally a part of the established burial rate. If a provider adds an additional transportation charge to the burial rate because of extenuating circumstances, the social services worker can pay the added charge. To do this, the social services worker must ensure and document in the case plan that:
(a) The charges are reasonable and equitable;
(b) The deceased was an eligible indigent Indian who was socially, culturally, and economically affiliated with his or her tribe; and
(c) The deceased resided in the service area for at least the last 6 consecutive months of his/her life.

# Disaster Assistance
§ 20.327
When can the Bureau provide Disaster Assistance?
Disaster assistance is immediate and/or short-term relief from a disaster and can be provided to a tribal community in accordance with § 20.328.
§ 20.328
How can a tribe apply for Disaster Assistance?
(a) The tribe affected by the disaster is considered the applicant and must submit the following to the Regional Director through the local Superintendent:
(1) A tribal resolution requesting disaster assistance;
(2) A copy of county, state, or Presidential declaration of disaster; and
(3) The projected extent of need in the service area not covered by other federal funding sources.
(b) The Regional Director must forward the above tribal documents and his/her recommendation to the Assistant Secretary for final decision on whether disaster assistance will be provided and to what extent.

# Emergency Assistance
§ 20.329
When can the Bureau provide Emergency Assistance payments?
Emergency Assistance payments can be provided to individuals or families who suffer from a burnout, flood, or other destruction of their home and loss or damage to personal possessions. The Bureau will make payments only for essential needs and other non-medical necessities.
§ 20.330
What is the payment standard for Emergency Assistance?
The approved payment will not exceed the Bureau's maximum Emergency Assistance payment standard established by the Assistant Secretary.

# Adult Care Assistance
§ 20.331
What is Adult Care Assistance?
Adult care assistance provides non-medical care for eligible adult Indians who:
(a) Have needs that require personal care and supervision due to advanced age, infirmity, physical condition, or mental impairments; and
(b) Cannot be cared for in their own home by family members.
§ 20.332
Who can receive Adult Care Assistance?
An adult Indian is eligible to receive adult care assistance under this part if he/she:
(a) Is unable to meet his/her basic needs, including non-medical care and/or protection, with his/her own resources; and
(b) Does not require intermediate or skilled nursing care.
§ 20.333
How do I apply for Adult Care Assistance?
To apply for adult care assistance, you or someone acting on your behalf must submit an application form to the social services worker.
§ 20.334
What happens after I apply?
(a) The Bureau will determine eligibility based upon the income and available resources of the person named in the application.
(b) Upon approval by the Bureau Line Officer, payments will be approved under purchase of service agreements for adult care provided in state or tribally licensed or certified group settings, or by individual service providers licensed or certified for homemaker service.
[65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000; 65 FR 76563, Dec. 7, 2000]
§ 20.335
What is the payment standard for Adult Care Assistance?
The approved payment for adult care assistance will not exceed the applicable state payment rate for similar care.
[65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000; 65 FR 76563, Dec. 7, 2000]

# Subpart D—Services to Children, Elderly, and Families
§ 20.400
Who should receive Services to Children, Elderly, and Families?
Services to Children, Elderly, and Families will be provided for Indians meeting the requirements prescribed in § 20.300 who request these services or on whose behalf these services are requested.
§ 20.401
What is included under Services to Children, Elderly, and Families?
Services to Children, Elderly, and Families include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Assistance in solving problems related to family functioning and interpersonal relationships;
(b) Referral to the appropriate resource for problems related to illness, physical or mental handicaps, drug abuse, alcoholism, and violation of the law; and
(c) Protective services.
In addition, economic opportunity and money management may also be provided.
§ 20.402
When are protective services provided?
Protective services are provided when children or adults:
(a) Are deprived temporarily or permanently of needed supervision by responsible adults;
(b) Are neglected, abused or exploited;
(c) Need services when they are mentally or physically handicapped or otherwise disabled; or
(d) Are under the supervision of the Bureau in regard to the use and disbursement of funds in the child's or adult's Individual Indian Money (IIM) account. Those IIM accounts that are established for children will be supervised by the Bureau until the child becomes an adult as defined in 25 CFR 115.
§ 20.403
What do protective services include?
Protective services provided to a child, family or elderly person will be documented in the case files and:
(a) Can include, but are not limited to, any of the following:
(1) Providing responses to requests from members of the community on behalf of children or adults alleged to need protective services;
(2) Providing services to children, elderly, and families, including referrals for homemaker and day care services for the elderly and children;
(3) Coordinating with Indian courts to provide services, which may include, but are not limited to, the following:
(i) Investigating and reporting on allegations of child abuse and neglect, abandonment, and conditions that may require referrals (such as mental or physical handicaps);
(ii) Providing social information related to the disposition of a case, including recommendation of alternative resources for treatment; and
(iii) Providing placement services by the court order before and after adjudication.
(4) Coordinating with other community services, including groups, agencies, and facilities in the community. Coordination can include, but are not limited to:
(i) Evaluating social conditions that affect community well-being;
(ii) Treating conditions identified under paragraph (b)(1) of this section that are within the competence of social services workers; and
(iii) Working with other community agencies to identify and help clients to use services available for assistance in solving the social problems of individuals, families, and children.
(5) Coordinating with law enforcement and tribal courts, to place the victim of an alleged and/or substantiated incident of abuse, neglect or exploitation out of the home to assure safety while the allegations are being investigated. Social services workers may remove individuals in life threatening situations. After a social services assessment, the individual must be either returned to the parent(s) or to the home from which they were removed or the social services worker must initiate other actions as provided by the tribal code; and
(6) Providing social services in the home, coordinating and making referrals to other programs/services, including Child Protection, and/or establishing Multi-Disciplinary Teams.
(b) Must include, where the service population includes IIM account holders:
(1) Conducting, upon the request of an account holder or other interested party, a social services assessment to evaluate an adult account holder's circumstances and abilities and the extent to which the account holder needs assistance in managing his or her financial affairs; and
(2) Managing supervised IIM accounts of children and adults (in conjunction with legal guardians), which includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(i) Evaluating the needs of the account holder;
(ii) Developing, as necessary and as permitted under 25 CFR 115, a one-time or an annual distribution plan for funds held in an IIM account along with any amendments to the plan for approval by the Bureau;
(iii) Monitoring the implementation of the approved distribution plan to ensure that the funds are expended in accordance with the distribution plan;
(iv) Reviewing the supervised account every 6 months or more often as necessary if conditions have changed to warrant a recommendation to change the status of the account holder, or to modify the distribution plan;
(v) Reviewing receipts for an account holder's expenses and verifying that expenditures of funds from a supervised IIM account were made in accordance with the distribution plan approved by the Bureau, including any amendments made to the plan; and
(vi) Petitioning a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of, or change in, a legal guardian for a client, where appropriate.
[65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000; 65 FR 76563, Dec. 7, 2000]
§ 20.404
What information is contained in a social services assessment?
A social services assessment must contain, but is not limited to, the following:
(a) Identifying information about the client (for example, name, address, age, gender, social security number, telephone number, certificate of Indian blood, education level), family history
and medical history of the account holder;
(b) Description of the household composition: information on each member of the household (e.g., name, age, and gender) and that person's relationship to the client;
(c) The client's current resources and future income (e.g., VA benefits, retirement pensions, trust assets, employment income, judgment funds, general assistance benefits, unemployment benefits, social security income, supplemental security income and other governmental agency benefits);
(d) A discussion of the circumstances which justify special services, including ability of the client to handle his or her financial affairs and to conduct day-to-day living activities. Factors to be considered should include, but are not limited to:
(1) Age;
(2) Developmental disability;
(3) Chronic alcoholism or substance abuse;
(4) Lack of family assistance or social support systems, or abandonment;
(5) Self-neglect;
(6) Financial exploitation or abuse;
(7) Physical exploitation, neglect or abuse;
(8) Senility; and
(9) Dementia.
(e) Documentation supporting the need for assistance (e.g., medical reports, police reports, court orders, letters from interested parties, prior assessments or evaluations, diagnosis by psychologist/psychiatrist); and
(f) Summary of findings and proposed services to meet the identified needs of the client.

# Subpart E—Child Assistance
§ 20.500
Who is eligible for Child Assistance?
A child is eligible for Child Assistance under this subpart if all of the following criteria are met:
(a) The child must meet the requirements in § 20.300.
(b) The child's legally responsible parent, custodian/guardian, or Indian court having jurisdiction must:
(1) Request assistance under this part in writing;
(2) State that they are unable to provide necessary care and guidance for the child, or to provide for the child's special needs in his/her own home; and
(3) Provide a documented social services assessment from the social services worker of whether parent(s), custodian, guardian(s) are able to care for their child.
(c) All income accruing to the child, except income exempted by federal statute, must be used to meet the cost of special needs, foster home or residential care facility as authorized and arranged by social services.

# How Child Assistance Funds Can Be Used
§ 20.501
What services can be paid for with Child Assistance funds?
The social services program can use Child Assistance funds to pay for services as shown in the following table.
Service that can be paid
Conditions that must be met
Maximum payment level
(a) Room and board at residential care facilities licensed by the tribe or state
There must be no other resources available to pay these costs. See § 20.502 for other conditions that must be met
The state or county residential care rate in the state in which the child resides.
(b) Adoption or guardianship subsidies
There must be no other resources available to pay for this service. See § 20.503 for other conditions that must be met
The Bureau's maximum adoption and guardianship payment standard.
(c) Short-term homemaker services
There must be no other resources (such as Medicaid) available to pay for this service. Services can be purchased for a maximum of 3 months. See § 20.504 for other conditions that must be met
As approved by the Bureau line officer.
(d) Temporary foster care
See § 20.509 for conditions that must be met
The state or county foster care rate in the state in which the child resides.
§ 20.502
Can Child Assistance funds be used to place Indian children in residential care facilities?
You, the social service program, can use Child Assistance funds to purchase or contract for room and board in licensed residential care facilities.
(a) You can use Child Assistance funds to pay only for room and board. You must pay for other services that may be needed, including mental health, education, and physical therapy from other sources.
(b) Before placement the various funding sources must sign an agreement that specifies the services each source will pay. The Bureau Line Officer must approve this agreement.
§ 20.503
When can Child Assistance funds be used for Indian adoption or guardianship subsidies?
You, the social services program, can use Child Assistance funds to provide either adoption or guardianship subsidies if all of the following are true:
(a) The child is 17 or younger;
(b) The child has been in foster care prior to approval of the subsidy;
(c) The social services worker has considered all other available resources, attempted permanency planning, and documented in the case file that placement was in the best interest of the child; and
(d) The Bureau Line Officer approves the subsidy before it is authorized and redetermines eligibility on a yearly basis.
§ 20.504
What short-term homemaker services can Child Assistance pay for?
You, the social services program, can use Child Assistance funds to pay for homemaker services as specified in § 20.501 and this section. While housekeeping services are covered, homemaker services must focus on training household members in such skills as child care and home management. Homemaker services are provided for:
(a) A child who would otherwise need foster care placement or who would benefit from supportive (protective) supervision;
(b) A severely handicapped or special needs child whose care places undue stress on the family; or
(c) A child whose care would benefit from specialized training and supportive services provided to family members.
§ 20.505
What services are provided jointly with the Child Assistance Program?
The services listed in this section are provided by Services to Children, Elderly, and Families under this subpart jointly with the Child Assistance Program.
(a) Social services provided for children in their own home aimed at strengthening the family's ability to provide for and nurture their child. These supportive services can include:
(1) Social work case management;
(2) Counseling for parents and children;
(3) Group work, day care; and
(4) Homemaker services, when necessary.
(b) Protection of Indian children from abuse, neglect or exploitation in coordination with law enforcement and courts.
(c) A written case plan must be established within 30 days of placement and reviewed within 60 days of placement or as outlined in tribally established standards, when temporary placement outside the home is necessary. The case plan must contain a written agreement signed among the various funding sources to identify the services that will be paid by each source in those instances where the child requires services outside the authority of the Child Assistance program.

# Foster Care
§ 20.506
What information is required in the foster care case file?
At a minimum the following information is required:
(a) Tribal enrollment verification in accordance with § 20.100;
(b) A written case plan (established within 30 days of placement), which would include a permanency plan detailing the need for and expected length of placement;
(c) Information on each child's health status and school records, including medications and immunization records;
(d) Parental consent(s) for emergency medical care, school, and transportation;
(e) A signed plan for payment, including financial responsibility of parents and use of other appropriate resources;
(f) A copy of the certification/license of the foster home;
(g) A current photo of each child;
(h) A copy of the social security card, birth certificate, Medicaid card and current court order;
(i) For a placement beyond 30 days, copy of the action taken or authorized by a court of competent jurisdiction that documents the need for protection of the child;
(j) For an involuntary placement, a social services assessment completed by a social services worker within 30 days of placement;
(k) Documentation of a minimum of one visit to the placement setting per month by the social services worker with each child; and
(l) A list of all prior placements, including the names of the foster parents and dates of placements.
§ 20.507
What requirements must foster care providers meet?
If a child needs foster care, the social services worker must select care that meets the physical, behavioral, and emotional needs of the child. Foster care is intended to be short-term. The case plan must show that all of the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are met:
(a) All foster homes must be certified or licensed by the tribe or other appropriate authority. Foster care placements beyond 30 days must be made through a court of competent jurisdiction to ensure that:
(1) Federal background checks are completed prior to placement as required by Public Law 101-630; and
(2) Training (optional for placements with relatives) is provided to the foster family.
(b) If the child is placed with relatives in an adoption and guardian placement, the case file must contain an approved current home study.
(c) An off-reservation foster home, or residential care facility under contract must meet the licensing standards of the state in which it is located or tribally established certifying/licensing standards.
§ 20.508
What must the social services agency do when a child is placed in foster care, residential care or guardianship home?
The social services agency must make efforts to secure child support for the child in foster care or residential care through a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 20.509
What must the social services worker do when a child is placed in foster care or residential care facility?
When a child is placed in foster care or a residential care facility the social services worker must do all of the following:
(a) Discuss with foster parents or caretakers, the child's special needs, including disabilities;
(b) Provide counseling or referral to available resources;
(c) Refer any child requiring medical, substance abuse, or behavioral (mental) health services to an appropriate health services to be assessed and to receive services;
(d) Ensure that the case plan provides for all necessary costs of care (including clothing, incidentals, and personal allowance) in accordance with established state standards of payments;
(e) Develop a foster family agreement signed and dated by the parties involved that specifies the roles and responsibilities of the biological parents, foster parents, and placing agency; the terms of payment of care; and the need for adherence to the established case plan;
(f) Immediately report any occurrences of suspected child abuse or neglect in a foster home or residential care facility to law enforcement and protective services in accordance with tribal standards and reporting requirements under Public Law 101-630; and
(g) Complete a yearly assessment of each tribal or state licensed foster home or residential care facility evaluating how the home has fulfilled its function relative to the needs of the child placed in the home.
§ 20.510
How is the court involved in child placements?
The court retains custody of a child in placement and the care and supervision must be given to the appropriate social services agency. While the court can issue any court order consistent with tribal law, the courts do not have the authority to require expenditure of federal funds to pay for specifically prescribed or restrictive services or out-of-home placements of children. Case plans must be reviewed with the appropriate court at least every 6 months and a permanency hearing held within 12 months after a child enters foster care or residential care, or according to established tribal standards. These standards can be established in the tribal code and can be in accordance with available funding source requirements.
§ 20.511
Should permanency plans be developed?
Permanency planning must be developed for all child placements within 6 months after initial placement of the child. Every reasonable effort will be made to preserve the family and/or reunify the children with the family and relatives when developing permanency plans. However, the child's health and safety are the paramount concern.
§ 20.512
Can the Bureau/tribal contractors make Indian adoptive placements?
The Bureau is not an authorized adoption agency and staff must not arrange adoptive placements. However, long-term permanency planning can involve the Bureau social services workers cooperating with tribal courts to provide an adoption subsidy. Tribal contractors will provide adoption services as authorized by the tribal courts in accordance with tribal codes/law.
§ 20.513
Should Interstate Compacts be used for the placement of children?
Interstate compact agreements should be used when appropriate for foster care, adoption and guardianship to protect the best interests of the child and to assure the availability of the funding resources and services from the originating placement source.
§ 20.514
What assistance can the courts request from social services on behalf of children?
The courts can request the following:
(a) Investigations of law enforcement reports of child abuse and neglect;
(b) Assessment of the need for out-of-home placement of the child; and
(c) Provision of court-related services following adjudication, such as monitoring, foster care, or residential care, or pre/post placement services.
§ 20.515
What is required for case management?
Social services workers must document regular contact with children and families in accordance with specific program requirements. The social services agency is responsible for implementation of quality case management; this requires the supervisor's review of case plans every 90 days.
§ 20.516
How are child abuse, neglect or exploitation cases to be handled?
Reported child abuse, neglect or exploitation cases and the requirement for background clearances will be handled in accordance with the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act of 1990, Public Law 101-630, 25 CFR part 63, federal and/or state laws where applicable, and tribal codes which protect Indian children and victims of domestic violence. This includes developing and maintaining Child Protection Teams in accordance to Public Law 101-630 and collection of child abuse, neglect and exploitation data according to Public Law 99-570. Those cases referred by the state will be handled according to the Indian Child Welfare Act, Public Law 95-608, and 25 CFR part 23.

# Subpart F—Administrative Procedures
§ 20.600
Who can apply for financial assistance or social services?
(a) You can apply for financial assistance or social services under this part if you:
(1) Believe that you are eligible to receive benefits; or
(2) Are applying on behalf of someone who you believe is eligible to receive benefits.
(b) Under paragraph (a) of this section, any of the following may apply for benefits on behalf of another person: relatives, interested individuals, social services agencies, law enforcement agencies, courts, or other persons or agencies.
§ 20.601
How can applications be submitted?
You can apply for financial assistance or social services under this part by:
(a) Completing an application that you can get from your social services worker or tribe; or
(b) Through an interview with a social services worker who will complete an application for you based on the oral interview.
§ 20.602
How does the Bureau verify eligibility for social services?
(a) You, the applicant, are the primary source of information used to determine eligibility and need. If it is necessary to secure information such as medical records from other sources, you must authorize the release of information.
(b) You must immediately report to your social services worker any changes in circumstances that may affect your eligibility or the amount of financial assistance that you receive.
§ 20.603
How is an application approved or denied?
(a) Each application must be approved if the applicant meets the eligibility criteria in this part for the type of assistance requested and all recipients will be redetermined for eligibility every 6 months. Financial assistance will be made retroactive to the application date.
(b) An application must be denied if the applicant does not meet the eligibility criteria in §§ 20.300 through 20.516.
(c) The social services worker must approve or deny an application within 30 days of the application date. The local social services worker must issue written notice of the approval or denial of each application within 45 days of the application date.
(d) If for a good reason the social services worker cannot meet the deadline in paragraph (c) of this section, he or she must notify the applicant in writing of:
(1) The reasons why the decision cannot be made; and
(2) The deadline by which the social services worker will send the applicant a decision.
[65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000; 65 FR 76563, Dec. 7, 2000]
§ 20.604
How is an applicant or recipient notified that benefits or services are denied or changed?
If the Bureau increases, decreases, suspends, or terminates financial assistance, the social services worker must mail or hand deliver to the applicant or recipient a written notice of the action. The notice must:
(a) State the action taken, the effective date, and the reason(s) for the decision;
(b) Inform the applicant or recipient of the right to request a hearing if dissatisfied with the decision;
(c) Advise the applicant or recipient of the right to be represented by an authorized representative at no expense to the Bureau;
(d) Include the address of the local Superintendent or his/her designated representative to whom the request for a hearing must be submitted;
(e) Advise the applicant or recipient that failure to request a hearing within 20 days of the date of the notice will cause the decision to become final and not subject to appeal under 25 CFR part 2; and
(f) Be delivered to the applicant 20 days in advance of the effective date of the action.
§ 20.605
What happens when an applicant or recipient appeals a decision under this subpart?
If you are an applicant or recipient and appeal a decision made under § 20.604, you can continue to receive your assistance while your appeal is pending. For this to happen, you must submit your appeal by the deadline in § 20.604(e).
§ 20.606
How is an incorrect payment adjusted or recovered?
(a) When an incorrect payment of financial assistance has been made to an
individual or family, a proper adjustment or recovery is required.
(b) The proper adjustment or recovery is based upon individual need as appropriate to the circumstances that resulted in an incorrect payment.
(c) Before adjustment or recovery, the recipient will be notified of the proposal to correct the payment and given an informal opportunity to resolve the matter.
(d) If an informal resolution cannot be attained, the recipient must be given a written notice of decision and the procedures of § 20.604 will apply.
(e) If a hearing is requested, the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the procedures under §§ 20.700 through 20.705.
§ 20.607
What happens when applicants or recipients knowingly and willfully provide false or fraudulent information?
Applicants or recipients who knowingly and willfully provide false or fraudulent information are subject to prosecution under 18 U.S.C. § 1001, which carries a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment for not more than 5 years, or both. The social services worker will prepare a written report detailing the information considered to be false and submit the report to the Superintendent or his/her designated representative for appropriate investigative action.

# Subpart G—Hearings and Appeals
§ 20.700
Can an applicant or recipient appeal the decision of a Bureau official?
Yes, if you are an applicant or recipient, and are dissatisfied with a Bureau decision made under this part, you can request a hearing before the Superintendent or his/her designated representative. You must submit your request by the deadline in § 20.604. The Superintendent or his/her designated representative can extend the deadline if you show good cause.
§ 20.701
Does a recipient receive financial assistance while an appeal is pending?
Yes, if you appeal under this subpart, financial assistance will be continued or reinstated to insure there is no break in financial assistance until the Superintendent or his/her designated representative makes a decision. The Superintendent or his/her designated representative can adjust payments or recover overpayments to conform with his/her decision.
[65 FR 63159, Oct. 20, 2000; 65 FR 76563, Dec. 7, 2000]
§ 20.702
When is an appeal hearing scheduled?
The Superintendent or his/her designated representative must set a date for the hearing within 10 days of the date of request for a hearing and give written notice to the applicant or recipient.
§ 20.703
What must the written notice of hearing include?
The written notice of hearing must include:
(a) The date, time and location of the hearing;
(b) A statement of the facts and issues giving rise to the appeal;
(c) The applicant's or recipient's right to be heard in person, or to be represented by an authorized representative at no expense to the Bureau;
(d) The applicant or recipient's right to present both oral and written evidence during the hearing;
(e) The applicant's or recipient's right to confront and cross-examine witnesses at the hearing;
(f) The applicant's or recipient's right of one continuance of not more than 10 days with respect to the date of hearing; and
(g) The applicant's or recipient's right to examine and copy, at a reasonable time before the hearing, his/her case record as it relates to the proposed action being contested.
§ 20.704
Who conducts the hearing or appeal of a Bureau decision or action and what is the process?
(a) The Superintendent or his/her designated representative conducts the hearing in an informal but orderly manner, records the hearing, and provides the applicant or recipient with a transcript of the hearing upon request.
(b) The Superintendent or his/her designated representative must render a written decision within 10 days of the completion of the hearing. The written decision must include:
(1) A written statement covering the evidence relied upon and reasons for the decision; and
(2) The applicant's or recipient's right to appeal the Superintendent or his/her designated representative's decision pursuant to 25 CFR part 2 and request Bureau assistance in preparation of the appeal.
§ 20.705
Can an applicant or recipient appeal a tribal decision?
Yes, the applicant or recipient must pursue the appeal process applicable to the Public Law 93-638 contract, Public Law 102-477 grant, or Public Law 103-413 self-governance annual funding agreement. If no appeal process exists, then the applicant or recipient must pursue the appeal through the appropriate tribal forum.
Pt. 23

# PART 23—INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, and Policy
Sec.
23.1
Purpose.
23.2
Definitions.
23.3
Policy.
23.4
Information collection.

# Subpart B—Notice of Involuntary Child Custody Proceedings and Payment for Appointed Counsel in State Courts
23.11
Notice.
23.12
Designated tribal agent for service of notice.
23.13
Payment for appointed counsel in involuntary Indian child custody proceedings in state courts.

# Subpart C—Grants to Indian Tribes for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs
23.21
Noncompetitive tribal government grants.
23.22
Purpose of tribal government grants.
23.23
Tribal government application contents.

# Subpart D—Grants to Off-Reservation Indian Organizations for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs
23.31
Competitive off-reservation grant process.
23.32
Purpose of off-reservation grants.
23.33
Competitive off-reservation application contents and application selection criteria.
23.34
Review and decision on off-reservation applications by Regional Director.
23.35
Deadline for Central Office action.

# Subpart E—General and Uniform Grant Administration Provisions and Requirements
23.41
Uniform grant administration provisions, requirements and applicability.
23.42
Technical assistance.
23.43
Authority for grant approval and execution.
23.44
Grant administration and monitoring.
23.45
Subgrants.
23.46
Financial management, internal and external controls and other assurances.
23.47
Reports and availability of information to Indians.
23.48
Matching shares and agreements.
23.49
Fair and uniform provision of services.
23.50
Service eligibility.
23.51
Grant carry-over authority.
23.52
Grant suspension.
23.53
Cancellation.

# Subpart F—Appeals
23.61
Appeals from decision or action by Agency Superintendent, Regional Director or Grants Officer.
23.62
Appeals from decision or action by Regional Director under subpart D.
23.63
Appeals from inaction of official.

# Subpart G—Administrative Provisions
23.71
Recordkeeping and information availability.

# Subpart H—Assistance to State Courts
23.81
Assistance in identifying witnesses.
23.82
Assistance in identifying language interpreters.
23.83
Assistance in locating biological parents of Indian child after termination of adoption.

# Subpart I—Indian Child Welfare Act Proceedings

# General Provisions
23.101
What is the purpose of this subpart?
23.102
What terms do I need to know?
23.103
When does ICWA apply?
23.104
What provisions of this subpart apply to each type of child-custody proceeding?
23.105
How do I contact a Tribe under the regulations in this subpart?
23.106
How does this subpart interact with State and Federal laws?

# Pretrial Requirements
23.107
How should a State court determine if there is reason to know the child is an Indian child?
23.108
Who makes the determination as to whether a child is a member, whether a child is eligible for membership, or whether a biological parent is a member of a Tribe?
23.109
How should a State court determine an Indian child's Tribe when the child may be a member or eligible for membership in more than one Tribe?
23.110
When must a State court dismiss an action?
23.111
What are the notice requirements for a child-custody proceeding involving an Indian child?
23.112
What time limits and extensions apply?
23.113
What are the standards for emergency proceedings involving an Indian child?
23.114
What are the requirements for determining improper removal?

# Petitions To Transfer to Tribal Court
23.115
How are petitions for transfer of a proceeding made?
23.116
What happens after a petition for transfer is made?
23.117
What are the criteria for ruling on transfer petitions?
23.118
How is a determination of “good cause” to deny transfer made?
23.119
What happens after a petition for transfer is granted?

# Adjudication of Involuntary Proceedings
23.120
How does the State court ensure that active efforts have been made?
23.121
What are the applicable standards of evidence?
23.122
Who may serve as a qualified expert witness?
23.123
[Reserved]

# Voluntary Proceedings
23.124
What actions must a State court undertake in voluntary proceedings?
23.125
How is consent obtained?
23.126
What information must a consent document contain?
23.127
How is withdrawal of consent to a foster-care placement achieved?
23.128
How is withdrawal of consent to a termination of parental rights or adoption achieved?

# Dispositions
23.129
When do the placement preferences apply?
23.130
What placement preferences apply in adoptive placements?
23.131
What placement preferences apply in foster-care or preadoptive placements?
23.132
How is a determination of “good cause” to depart from the placement preferences made?

# Access
23.133
Should courts allow participation by alternative methods?
23.134
Who has access to reports and records during a proceeding?
23.135
[Reserved]

# Post-Trial Rights

# Responsibilities
23.136
What are the requirements for vacating an adoption based on consent having been obtained through fraud or duress?
23.137
Who can petition to invalidate an action for certain ICWA violations?
23.138
What are the rights to information about adoptees' Tribal affiliations?
23.139
Must notice be given of a change in an adopted Indian child's status?

# Recordkeeping
23.140
What information must States furnish to the Bureau of Indian Affairs?
23.141
What records must the State maintain?
23.142
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this subpart?

# Effective Date
23.143
How does this subpart apply to pending proceedings?

# Severability
23.144
What happens if some portion of this part is held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 1901-1952.

# Source:
59 FR 2256, Jan. 13, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 23 appear at 79 FR 27190, May 13, 2014.

# Subpart A—Purpose, Definitions, and Policy
§ 23.1
Purpose.
The purpose of the regulations in this part is to govern the provision of funding for, and the administration of Indian child and family service programs
as authorized by the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-608, 92 Stat. 3069, 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 1901-1952).
§ 23.2
Definitions.
Act
means the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA), Pub. L. 95-608, 92 Stat. 3069, 25 U.S.C. 1901
et seq.
Active efforts
means affirmative, active, thorough, and timely efforts intended primarily to maintain or reunite an Indian child with his or her family. Where an agency is involved in the child-custody proceeding, active efforts must involve assisting the parent or parents or Indian custodian through the steps of a case plan and with accessing or developing the resources necessary to satisfy the case plan. To the maximum extent possible, active efforts should be provided in a manner consistent with the prevailing social and cultural conditions and way of life of the Indian child's Tribe and should be conducted in partnership with the Indian child and the Indian child's parents, extended family members, Indian custodians, and Tribe. Active efforts are to be tailored to the facts and circumstances of the case and may include, for example:
(1) Conducting a comprehensive assessment of the circumstances of the Indian child's family, with a focus on safe reunification as the most desirable goal;
(2) Identifying appropriate services and helping the parents to overcome barriers, including actively assisting the parents in obtaining such services;
(3) Identifying, notifying, and inviting representatives of the Indian child's Tribe to participate in providing support and services to the Indian child's family and in family team meetings, permanency planning, and resolution of placement issues;
(4) Conducting or causing to be conducted a diligent search for the Indian child's extended family members, and contacting and consulting with extended family members to provide family structure and support for the Indian child and the Indian child's parents;
(5) Offering and employing all available and culturally appropriate family preservation strategies and facilitating the use of remedial and rehabilitative services provided by the child's Tribe;
(6) Taking steps to keep siblings together whenever possible;
(7) Supporting regular visits with parents or Indian custodians in the most natural setting possible as well as trial home visits of the Indian child during any period of removal, consistent with the need to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the child;
(8) Identifying community resources including housing, financial, transportation, mental health, substance abuse, and peer support services and actively assisting the Indian child's parents or, when appropriate, the child's family, in utilizing and accessing those resources;
(9) Monitoring progress and participation in services;
(10) Considering alternative ways to address the needs of the Indian child's parents and, where appropriate, the family, if the optimum services do not exist or are not available;
(11) Providing post-reunification services and monitoring.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, the Department of the Interior.
Bureau of Indian Affairs
(BIA) means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Department of the Interior.
Child-custody proceeding.
(1) “Child-custody proceeding” means and includes any action, other than an emergency proceeding, that may culminate in one of the following outcomes:
(i)
Foster-care placement,
which is any action removing an Indian child from his or her parent or Indian custodian for temporary placement in a foster home or institution or the home of a guardian or conservator where the parent or Indian custodian cannot have the child returned upon demand, but where parental rights have not been terminated;
(ii)
Termination of parental rights,
which is any action resulting in the termination of the parent-child relationship;
(iii)
Preadoptive placement,
which is the temporary placement of an Indian child in a foster home or institution after the termination of parental rights, but prior to or in lieu of adoptive placement; or
(iv)
Adoptive placement,
which is the permanent placement of an Indian
child for adoption, including any action resulting in a final decree of adoption.
(2) An action that may culminate in one of these four outcomes is considered a separate child-custody proceeding from an action that may culminate in a different one of these four outcomes. There may be several child-custody proceedings involving any given Indian child. Within each child-custody proceeding, there may be several hearings. If a child is placed in foster care or another out-of-home placement as a result of a status offense, that status offense proceeding is a child-custody proceeding.
Consortium
means an association or partnership of two or more eligible applicants who enter into an agreement to administer a grant program and to provide services under the grant to Indian residents in a specific geographical area when it is administratively feasible to provide an adequate level of services within the area.
Continued custody
means physical custody or legal custody or both, under any applicable Tribal law or Tribal custom or State law, that a parent or Indian custodian already has or had at any point in the past. The biological mother of a child has had custody of a child.
Custody
means physical custody or legal custody or both, under any applicable Tribal law or Tribal custom or State law. A party may demonstrate the existence of custody by looking to Tribal law or Tribal custom or State law.
Domicile
means:
(1) For a parent or Indian custodian, the place at which a person has been physically present and that the person regards as home; a person's true, fixed, principal, and permanent home, to which that person intends to return and remain indefinitely even though the person may be currently residing elsewhere.
(2) For an Indian child, the domicile of the Indian child's parents or Indian custodian or guardian. In the case of an Indian child whose parents are not married to each other, the domicile of the Indian child's custodial parent.
Emergency proceeding
means and includes any court action that involves an emergency removal or emergency placement of an Indian child.
Extended family member
is defined by the law or custom of the Indian child's Tribe or, in the absence of such law or custom, is a person who has reached age 18 and who is the Indian child's grandparent, aunt or uncle, brother or sister, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, niece or nephew, first or second cousin, or stepparent.
Grant
means a written agreement between the BIA and the governing body of an Indian tribe or Indian organization wherein the BIA provides funds to the grantee to plan, conduct or administer specific programs, services, or activities and where the administrative and programmatic provisions are specifically delineated.
Grantee
means the tribal governing body of an Indian tribe or Board of Directors of an Indian organization responsible for grant administration.
Grants officer
means an officially designated officer who administers ICWA grants awarded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Department of the Interior.
Hearing
means a judicial session held for the purpose of deciding issues of fact, of law, or both.
Indian
means any person who is a member of an Indian tribe, or who is an Alaska Native and a member of a Regional Corporation as defined in section 7 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1606.
Indian child
means any unmarried person who is under age 18 and either:
(1) Is a member or citizen of an Indian Tribe; or
(2) Is eligible for membership or citizenship in an Indian Tribe and is the biological child of a member/citizen of an Indian Tribe.
Indian child's Tribe
means:
(1) The Indian Tribe in which an Indian child is a member or eligible for membership; or
(2) In the case of an Indian child who is a member of or eligible for membership in more than one Tribe, the Indian Tribe described in § 23.109.
Indian custodian
means any Indian who has legal custody of an Indian child under applicable Tribal law or custom or under applicable State law, or to whom temporary physical care,
custody, and control has been transferred by the parent of such child. An Indian may demonstrate that he or she is an Indian custodian by looking to Tribal law or Tribal custom or State law.
Indian foster home
means a foster home where one or more of the licensed or approved foster parents is an “Indian” as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903(3).
Indian organization,
solely for purposes of eligibility for grants under subpart D of this part, means any legally established group, association, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity which is owned or controlled by Indians, or a majority (51 percent or more) of whose members are Indians.
Indian preference
means preference and opportunities for employment and training provided to Indians in the administration of grants in accordance with section 7 (b) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450).
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians federally recognized as eligible for the services provided to Indians by the Secretary because of their status as Indians, including any Alaska Native village as defined in section 3 (c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43 U.S.C. 1602 (c).
Involuntary proceeding
means a child-custody proceeding in which the parent does not consent of his or her free will to the foster-care, preadoptive, or adoptive placement or termination of parental rights or in which the parent consents to the foster-care, preadoptive, or adoptive placement under threat of removal of the child by a State court or agency.
Off-reservation ICWA program
means an ICWA program administered in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1932 by an off-reservation Indian organization.
Parent
or
parents
means any biological parent or parents of an Indian child, or any Indian who has lawfully adopted an Indian child, including adoptions under Tribal law or custom. It does not include an unwed biological father where paternity has not been acknowledged or established.
Reservation
means Indian country as defined in 18 U.S.C 1151 and any lands, not covered under that section, title to which is held by the United States in trust for the benefit of any Indian Tribe or individual or held by any Indian Tribe or individual subject to a restriction by the United States against alienation.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary's authorized representative acting under delegated authority.
Service areas solely for newly recognized or restored Indian tribes without established reservations
means those service areas congressionally established by Federal law to be the equivalent of a reservation for the purpose of determining the eligibility of a newly recognized or restored Indian tribe and its members for all Federal services and benefits.
State court
means any agent or agency of a state, including the District of Columbia or any territory or possession of the United States, or any political subdivision empowered by law to terminate parental rights or to make foster care placements, preadoptive placements, or adoptive placements.
Status offenses
mean offenses that would not be considered criminal if committed by an adult; they are acts prohibited only because of a person's status as a minor (
e.g.,
truancy, incorrigibility).
Subgrant
means a secondary grant that undertakes part of the obligations of the primary grant, and assumes the legal and financial responsibility for the funds awarded and for the performance of the grant-supported activity.
Technical assistance
means the provision of oral, written, or other relevant information and assistance to prospective grant applicants in the development of their grant proposals. Technical assistance may include a preliminary review of an application to assist the applicant in identifying the strengths and weaknesses of the proposal, ongoing program planning, design and evaluation, and such other program-specific assistance as is necessary for ongoing grant administration and management.
Title II
means title II of Public Law 95-608, the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, which authorizes the Secretary to make grants to Indian tribes and off-
reservation Indian organizations for the establishment and operation of Indian child and family service programs.
Tribal court
means a court with jurisdiction over child-custody proceedings and which is either a Court of Indian Offenses, a court established and operated under the code or custom of an Indian Tribe, or any other administrative body of a Tribe vested with authority over child-custody proceedings.
Tribal government
means the federally recognized governing body of an Indian tribe.
Upon demand
means that the parent or Indian custodian can regain custody simply upon verbal request, without any formalities or contingencies.
Value
means face, par, or market value, or cost price, either wholesale or retail, whichever is greater.
Voluntary proceeding
means a child-custody proceeding that is not an involuntary proceeding, such as a proceeding for foster-care, preadoptive, or adoptive placement that either parent, both parents, or the Indian custodian has, of his or her or their free will, without a threat of removal by a State agency, consented to for the Indian child, or a proceeding for voluntary termination of parental rights.
[59 FR 2256, Jan. 13, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 38864, June 14, 2016]
§ 23.3
Policy.
In enacting the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, Pub. L. 95-608, the Congress has declared that it is the policy of this Nation to protect the best interests of Indian children and to promote the stability and security of Indian tribes and Indian families by the establishment of minimum Federal standards to prevent the arbitrary removal of Indian children from their families and tribes and to ensure that measures which prevent the breakup of Indian families are followed in child custody proceedings (25 U.S.C. 1902). Indian child and family service programs receiving title II funds and operated by federally recognized Indian tribes and off-reservation Indian organizations shall reflect the unique values of Indian culture and promote the stability and security of Indian children, Indian families and Indian communities. It is the policy of the Bureau of Indian Affairs to emphasize and facilitate the comprehensive design, development and implementation of Indian child and family service programs in coordination with other Federal, state, local, and tribal programs which strengthen and preserve Indian families and Indian tribes.
§ 23.4
Information collection.
(a) The information collection requirements contained in § 23.13 of this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.,
and assigned clearance number 1076-0111.
(1) This information will be used to determine eligibility for payment of legal fees for indigent Indian parents and Indian custodians, involved in involuntary Indian child custody proceedings in state courts, who are not eligible for legal services through other mechanisms. Response to this request is required to obtain a benefit.
(2) Public reporting for this information collection is estimated to average 10 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the information collection. Direct comments regarding the burden estimate or any aspect of this information collection should be mailed or hand-delivered to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Information Collection Clearance Officer, Room 336-SIB, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Paperwork Reduction Project—1076-0111, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503.
(b) The information collection requirements contained in §§ 23.21; 23.31; 23.46; 23.47, and 23.71 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1076-0131. The information collection requirements under §§ 23.21 and 23.31 are collected in the form of ICWA grant applications from Indian tribes and off-reservation Indian organizations. A response to this request is required to obtain grant funds. The information collection requirements under § 23.46 are collected in compliance with applicable OMB circulars on financial management, internal and external controls
and other fiscal assurances in accordance with existing Federal grant administration and reporting requirements. The grantee information collection requirements under § 23.47 are collected in the form of quarterly and annual program performance narrative reports and statistical data as required by the grant award document. Pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 1951, the information collection requirement under § 23.71 is collected from state courts entering final adoption decrees for any Indian child and is provided to and maintained by the Secretary.
(1) Public reporting for the information collection at §§ 23.21 and 23.31 is estimated to average 32 hours per response, including the time for reviewing the grant application instructions, gathering the necessary information and data, and completing the grant application. Public reporting for the information collection at §§ 23.46 and 23.47 is estimated to average a combined total of 16 annual hours per grantee, including the time for gathering the necessary information and data, and completing the required forms and reports. Public reporting for the information collection at § 23.71 is estimated to average 4 hours per response, including the time for obtaining and preparing the final adoption decree for transmittal to the Secretary.
(2) Direct comments regarding any of these burden estimates or any aspect of these information collection requirements should be mailed or hand-delivered to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Information Collection Clearance Officer, room 336-SIB, 1849 C Street, NW., Washington, DC, 20240; and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Paperwork Reduction Project—1076-0131, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503.

# Subpart B—Notice of Involuntary Child Custody Proceedings and Payment for Appointed Counsel in State Courts
§ 23.11
Notice.
(a) In any involuntary proceeding in a State court where the court knows or has reason to know that an Indian child is involved, and where the identity and location of the child's parent or Indian custodian or Tribe is known, the party seeking the foster-care placement of, or termination of parental rights to, an Indian child must directly notify the parents, the Indian custodians, and the child's Tribe by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested, of the pending child-custody proceedings and their right of intervention. Notice must include the requisite information identified in § 23.111, consistent with the confidentiality requirement in § 23.111(d)(6)(ix). Copies of these notices must be sent to the appropriate Regional Director listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (12) of this section by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested or by personal delivery and must include the information required by § 23.111.
(b)(1) For child-custody proceedings in Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, or any territory or possession of the United States, notices must be sent to the following address: Eastern Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 545 Marriott Drive, Suite 700, Nashville, Tennessee 37214.
(2) For child-custody proceedings in Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, or Wisconsin, notices must be sent to the following address: Minneapolis Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 5600 American Blvd. W, Ste. 500, Bloomington, MN 55437.
(3) For child-custody proceedings in Nebraska, North Dakota, or South Dakota, notices must be sent to the following address: Aberdeen Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 115 Fourth Avenue SE., Aberdeen, South Dakota 57401.
(4) For child-custody proceedings in Kansas, Texas (except for notices to the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo of El Paso County, Texas), or the western Oklahoma counties of Alfalfa, Beaver, Beckman, Blaine, Caddo, Canadian, Cimarron, Cleveland, Comanche, Cotton, Custer, Dewey, Ellis, Garfield, Grant, Greer, Harmon, Harper, Jackson, Kay, Kingfisher, Kiowa, Lincoln,
Logan, Major, Noble, Oklahoma, Pawnee, Payne, Pottawatomie, Roger Mills, Texas, Tillman, Washita, Woods or Woodward, notices must be sent to the following address: Anadarko Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P.O. Box 368, Anadarko, Oklahoma 73005. Notices to the Ysleta del Sur Pueblo must be sent to the Albuquerque Regional Director at the address listed in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(5) For child-custody proceedings in Wyoming or Montana (except for notices to the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of the Flathead Reservation, Montana), notices must be sent to the following address: Billings Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 316 N. 26th Street, Billings, Montana 59101. Notices to the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of the Flathead Reservation, Montana, must be sent to the Portland Regional Director at the address listed in paragraph (b)(11) of this section.
(6) For child-custody proceedings in the Texas counties of El Paso and Hudspeth or in Colorado or New Mexico (exclusive of notices to the Navajo Nation from the New Mexico counties listed in paragraph (b)(9) of this section), notices must be sent to the following address: Albuquerque Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 615 First Street, P.O. Box 26567, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87125. Notices to the Navajo Nation must be sent to the Navajo Regional Director at the address listed in paragraph (b)(9) of this section.
(7) For child-custody proceedings in Alaska (except for notices to the Metlakatla Indian Community, Annette Island Reserve, Alaska), notices must be sent to the following address: Alaska Regional Director—Attn: Human Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 3601 C Street, Suite 1258, Anchorage, Alaska 99503. Notices to the Metlakatla Indian Community, Annette Island Reserve, Alaska, must be sent to the Portland Regional Director at the address listed in paragraph (b)(11) of this section.
(8) For child-custody proceedings in Arkansas, Missouri, or the eastern Oklahoma counties of Adair, Atoka, Bryan, Carter, Cherokee, Craig, Creek, Choctaw, Coal, Delaware, Garvin, Grady, Haskell, Hughes, Jefferson, Johnson, Latimer, LeFlore, Love, Mayes, McCurtain, McClain, McIntosh, Murray, Muskogee, Nowata, Okfuskee, Okmulgee, Osage, Ottawa, Pittsburg, Pontotoc, Pushmataha, Marshall, Rogers, Seminole, Sequoyah, Stephens, Tulsa, Wagoner, or Washington, notices must be sent to the following address: Muskogee Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 101 North Fifth Street, Muskogee, Oklahoma 74401.
(9) For child-custody proceedings in the Arizona counties of Apache, Coconino (except for notices to the Hopi Tribe of Arizona and the San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe of Arizona) or Navajo (except for notices to the Hopi Tribe of Arizona); the New Mexico counties of McKinley (except for notices to the Zuni Tribe of the Zuni Reservation), San Juan, or Socorro; or the Utah county of San Juan, notices must be sent to the following address: Navajo Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, P.O. Box 1060, Gallup, New Mexico 87301. Notices to the Hopi and San Juan Southern Paiute Tribes of Arizona must be sent to the Phoenix Regional Director at the address listed in paragraph (b)(10) of this section. Notices to the Zuni Tribe of the Zuni Reservation must be sent to the Albuquerque Regional Director at the address listed in paragraph (b)(6 of this section).
(10) For child-custody proceedings in Arizona (exclusive of notices to the Navajo Nation from those counties listed in paragraph (b)(9) of this section), Nevada, or Utah (exclusive of San Juan County), notices must be sent to the following address: Phoenix Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 1 North First Street, P.O. Box 10, Phoenix, Arizona 85001.
(11) For child-custody proceedings in Idaho, Oregon, or Washington, notices must be sent to the following address: Portland Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, 911 NE 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232. All notices to the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of the Flathead Reservation, located in the Montana counties of Flathead, Lake, Missoula, and Sanders, must also be sent to the Portland Regional Director.
(12) For child-custody proceedings in California or Hawaii, notices must be sent to the following address: Sacramento Regional Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Federal Office Building, 2800 Cottage Way, Sacramento, California 95825.
(c) Upon receipt of the notice, the Secretary will make reasonable documented efforts to locate and notify the child's Tribe and the child's parent or Indian custodian. The Secretary will have 15 days, after receipt of the notice, to notify the child's Tribe and parents or Indian custodians and to send a copy of the notice to the court. If within the 15-day period the Secretary is unable to verify that the child meets the criteria of an Indian child as defined in § 23.2, or is unable to locate the parents or Indian custodians, the Secretary will so inform the court and state how much more time, if any, will be needed to complete the verification or the search. The Secretary will complete all research efforts, even if those efforts cannot be completed before the child-custody proceeding begins.
(d) Upon request from a party to an Indian child-custody proceeding, the Secretary will make a reasonable attempt to identify and locate the child's Tribe, parents, or Indian custodians to assist the party seeking the information.
[81 FR 38866, June 14, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 55268, Nov. 5, 2018]
§ 23.12
Designated tribal agent for service of notice.
Any Indian tribe entitled to notice pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 1912 may designate by resolution, or by such other form as the tribe's constitution or current practice requires, an agent for service of notice other than the tribal chairman and send a copy of the designation to the Secretary or his/her designee. The Secretary or his/her designee shall update and publish as necessary the names and addresses of the designated agents in the
Federal Register.
A current listing of such agents shall be available through the area offices.
§ 23.13
Payment for appointed counsel in involuntary Indian child custody proceedings in state courts.
(a) When a state court appoints counsel for an indigent Indian party in an involuntary Indian child custody proceeding for which the appointment of counsel is not authorized under state law, the court shall send written notice of the appointment to the BIA Regional Director designated for that state in § 23.11. The notice shall include the following:
(1) Name, address, and telephone number of attorney who has been appointed.
(2) Name and address of client for whom counsel is appointed.
(3) Relationship of client to child.
(4) Name of Indian child's tribe.
(5) Copy of the petition or complaint.
(6) Certification by the court that state law makes no provision for appointment of counsel in such proceedings.
(7) Certification by the court that the Indian client is indigent.
(b) The Regional Director shall certify that the client is eligible to have his or her appointed counsel compensated by the BIA unless:
(1) The litigation does not involve a child custody proceeding as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903 (1);
(2) The child who is the subject of the litigation is not an Indian child as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903 (4);
(3) The client is neither the Indian child who is the subject of the litigation, the Indian child's parent as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903 (9), nor the child's Indian custodian as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1903 (6);
(4) State law provides for appointment of counsel in such proceedings;
(5) The notice to the Regional Director of appointment of counsel is incomplete; or
(6) Funds are not available for the particular fiscal year.
(c) No later than 10 days after receipt of the notice of appointment of counsel, the Regional Director shall notify the court, the client, and the attorney in writing whether the client has been certified as eligible to have his or her attorney fees and expenses paid by the BIA. If certification is denied, the notice shall include written reasons for
that decision, together with a statement that complies with 25 CFR 2.7 and that informs the applicant that the decision may be appealed to the Assistant Secretary. The Assistant Secretary shall consider appeals under this subsection in accordance with 25 CFR 2.20 (c) through (e). Appeal procedures shall be as set out in part 2 of this chapter.
(d) When determining attorney fees and expenses, the court shall:
(1) Determine the amount of payment due appointed counsel by the same procedures and criteria it uses in determining the fees and expenses to be paid appointed counsel in state juvenile delinquency proceedings; and
(2) Submit approved vouchers to the Regional Director who certified eligibility for BIA payment, together with the court's certification that the amount requested is reasonable under the state standards considering the work actually performed in light of criteria that apply in determining fees and expenses for appointed counsel in state juvenile delinquency proceedings.
(e) The Regional Director shall authorize the payment of attorney fees and expenses in the amount requested in the voucher approved by the court unless:
(1) The amount of payment due the state-appointed counsel is inconsistent with the fees and expenses specified in § 23.13 (d)(1); or
(2) The client has not been certified previously as eligible under paragraph (c) of this section; or
(3) The voucher is submitted later than 90 days after completion of the legal action involving a client certified as eligible for payment of legal fees under paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) No later than 15 days after receipt of a payment voucher, the Regional Director shall send written notice to the court, the client, and the attorney stating the amount of payment, if any, that has been authorized. If the payment has been denied, or the amount authorized is less than the amount requested in the voucher approved by the court, the notice shall include a written statement of the reasons for the decision together with a statement that complies with 25 CFR 2.7 and that informs the client that the decision may be appealed to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals in accordance with 25 CFR 2.4 (e); 43 CFR 4.310 through 4.318 and 43 CFR 4.330 through 4.340.
(g) Failure of the Regional Director to meet the deadline specified in paragraphs (c) and (f) of this section may be treated as a denial for purposes of appeal under paragraph (f) of this section.
(h) Payment for appointed counsel does not extend to Indian tribes involved in state court child custody proceedings or to Indian families involved in Indian child custody proceedings in tribal courts.

# Subpart C—Grants to Indian Tribes for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs
§ 23.21
Noncompetitive tribal government grants.
(a)
Grant application information and technical assistance.
Information on grant application procedures and related information may be obtained from the appropriate Agency Superintendent or Regional Director. Pre-award and ongoing technical assistance to tribal governments shall be provided in accordance with § 23.42 of this part.
(b)
Eligibility requirements for tribal governments.
The tribal government(s) of any Indian tribe or consortium of tribes may submit a properly documented application for a grant to the appropriate Agency Superintendent or Regional Director. A tribe may neither submit more than one application for a grant nor be the beneficiary of more than one grant under this subpart.
(1) Through the publication of a
Federal Register
announcement at the outset of the implementation of the noncompetitive grant award process during which tribal applications will be solicited, the Assistant Secretary will notify eligible tribal applicants under this subpart of the amount of core funds available for their ICWA program. The funding levels will be based on the service area population to be served. Upon the receipt of this notice from the Agency Superintendent or appropriate Regional Director, tribal applicants shall submit a completed ICWA application no later than 60 days after the receipt of this notice.
(2) A grant to be awarded under this subpart shall be limited to the tribal
governing body(ies) of the tribe(s) to be served by the grant.
(3) For purposes of eligibility for newly recognized or restored Indian tribes without established reservations, such tribes shall be deemed eligible to apply for grants under this subpart to provide ICWA services within those service areas legislatively identified for such tribes.
(4) A grantee under this subpart may make a subgrant to another Indian tribe or an Indian organization subject to the provisions of § 23.45.
(c)
Revision or amendment of grants.
A grantee under this subpart may submit a written request and justification for a post-award grant modification covering material changes to the terms and conditions of the grant, subject to the approval of the grants officer. The request shall include a narrative description of any significant additions, deletions, or changes to the approved program activities or budget in the form of a grant amendment proposal.
(d) Continued annual funding of an ICWA grant under this subpart shall be contingent upon the fulfillment of the requirements delineated at § 23.23(c).
(e) Monitoring and program reporting requirements for grantees under this subpart are delineated at §§ 23.44 and 23.47.
§ 23.22
Purpose of tribal government grants.
(a) Grants awarded under this subpart are for the establishment and operation of tribally designed Indian child and family service programs. The objective of every Indian child and family service program shall be to prevent the breakup of Indian families and to ensure that the permanent removal of an Indian child from the custody of his or her Indian parent or Indian custodian shall be a last resort. Such child and family service programs may include, but need not be limited to:
(1) A system for licensing or otherwise regulating Indian foster and adoptive homes, such as establishing tribal standards for approval of on-reservation foster or adoptive homes;
(2) The operation and maintenance of facilities for counseling and treatment of Indian families and for the temporary custody of Indian children with the goal of strengthening Indian families and preventing parent-child separations;
(3) Family assistance, including homemaker and home counselors, protective day care and afterschool care, recreational activities, respite care, and employment support services with the goal of strengthening Indian families and contributing to family stability;
(4) Home improvement programs with the primary emphasis on preventing the removal of children due to unsafe home environments by making homes safer, but not to make extensive structural home improvements;
(5) The employment of professional and other trained personnel to assist the tribal court in the disposition of domestic relations and child welfare matters, but not to establish tribal court systems;
(6) Education and training of Indians, including tribal court judges and staff, in skills relating to child and family assistance and service programs;
(7) A subsidy program under which Indian adoptive children not eligible for state or BIA subsidy programs may be provided support comparable to that for which they could be eligible as foster children, taking into account the appropriate state standards of support for maintenance and medical needs;
(8) Guidance, legal representation and advice to Indian families involved in tribal, state, or Federal child custody proceedings; and
(9) Other programs designed to meet the intent and purposes of the Act.
(b) Grants may be provided to tribes in the preparation and implementation of child welfare codes within their jurisdiction or pursuant to a tribal-state agreement.
(c) Grantees under this subpart may enhance their capabilities by utilizing ICWA funds as non-Federal matching shares in connection with funds provided under titles IV-B, IV-E and XX of the Social Security Act or other Federal programs which contribute to and promote the intent and purposes of the Act through the provision of comprehensive child and family services in coordination with other tribal, Federal, state, and local resources available for the same purpose.
(d) Program income resulting from the operation of programs under this subpart, such as day care operations, may be retained and used for purposes similar to those for which the grant was awarded.
§ 23.23
Tribal government application contents.
(a) The appropriate Regional Director shall, subject to the tribe's fulfillment of the mandatory application requirements and the availability of appropriated funds, make a grant to the tribal governing body of a tribe or consortium of tribes eligible to apply for a grant under this subpart.
(b) The following mandatory tribal application requirements must be submitted to the appropriate Agency Superintendent or Regional Director in accordance with the timeframe established in § 23.21 (b) of this subpart:
(1) A current tribal resolution requesting a grant by the Indian tribe(s) to be served by the grant. If an applicant is applying for a grant benefiting more than one tribe (consortium), an authorizing resolution from each tribal government to be served must be included. The request must be in the form of a current tribal resolution by the tribal governing body and shall include the following information:
(i) The official name of tribe(s) applying for the grant and who will directly benefit from or receive services from the grant;
(ii) The proposed beginning and ending dates of the grant;
(iii) A provision stating that the resolution will remain in effect for the duration of the program or until the resolution expires or is rescinded; and
(iv) The signature of the authorized representative of the tribal government and the date thereof.
(2) A completed Application for Federal Assistance form, SF-424.
(3) A narrative needs assessment of the social problems or issues affecting the resident Indian population to be served; the geographic area(s) to be served; and estimated number of resident Indian families and/or persons to receive benefits or services from the program.
(4) A comprehensive developmental multi-year plan in narrative form describing what specific services and/or activities will be provided each program year and addressing the above-identified social problems or issues. At a minimum, the plan must include:
(i) The program goals and objectives, stated in measurable terms, to be achieved through the grant;
(ii) A narrative description of how Indian families and communities will benefit from the program; and
(iii) The methodology, including culturally defined approaches, and procedures by which the tribe(s) will accomplish the identified goals and objectives.
(5) An internal monitoring system to measure progress and accomplishments, and to assure that the quality and quantity of actual performance conforms to the requirements of the grant.
(6) A staffing plan that is consistent with the implementation of the above-described program plan of operation and the procedures necessary for the successful delivery of services.
(i) The plan must include proposed key personnel; their qualifications, training or experience relevant to the services to be provided; responsibilities; Indian preference criteria for employment; and position descriptions.
(ii) In accordance with 25 U.S.C. 3201
et seq.
(Pub. L. 101-630), title IV, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act, grantees shall conduct character and background investigations of those personnel identified in that statute. Grantees must initiate character and background investigations of said personnel prior to their actual employment, and complete the investigations in a timely manner.
(7) A program budget and budget narrative justification submitted on an annual basis for the amount of the award and supported by the proposed plan, appropriate program services and activities for the applicable grant year.
(8) Identification of any consultants and/or subgrantees the applicant proposes to employ; a description of the consultant and/or subgrantee services to be rendered; the qualifications and experience in performing the identified services; and the basis for the cost and amount to be paid for such services.
(9) A certification by a licensed accountant that the bookkeeping and accounting procedures which the tribe(s) uses or intends to use meet existing Federal standards for grant management and administration specified at § 23.46.
(10) A system for managing property and recordkeeping which complies with subpart D of 43 CFR part 2 implementing the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) and with existing Federal requirements for grants at 25 CFR 276.5 and 276.11, including the maintenance and safeguarding of direct service case records on families and/or individuals served by the grant.
(11) A listing of equipment, facilities, and buildings necessary to carry out the grant program. Liability insurance coverage for buildings and their contents is recommended for grantees under this subpart.
(12) Pursuant to the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, tribal programs shall comply with the mandatory Drug-Free Workplace Certification, a regulatory requirement for Federal grant recipients.
(c) Continued annual funding of an ICWA program under this subpart shall be contingent upon the existing grant program receiving a satisfactory program evaluation from the area social services office for the previous year of operation. A copy of this evaluation must be submitted together with an annual budget and budget narrative justification in accordance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section. Minimum standards for receiving a satisfactory evaluation shall include:
(1) The timely submission of all fiscal and programmatic reports;
(2) A narrative program report indicating work accomplished in accordance with the applicant's approved multi-year plan and, if applicable, a description of any modification in programs or activities to be funded in the next fiscal year; and
(3) The implementation of mutually determined corrective action measures, if applicable.

# Subpart D—Grants to Off-Reservation Indian Organizations for Title II Indian Child and Family Service Programs
§ 23.31
Competitive off-reservation grant process.
(a) Grant application procedures and related information may be obtained from the Regional Director designated at § 23.11 for processing ICWA notices for the state in which the applicant is located. Pre-award and ongoing technical assistance of off-reservation Indian organization grantees shall be provided in accordance with § 23.42.
(b) Prior to the beginning of or during the applicable year(s) in which grants for off-reservation programs will be awarded competitively, the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs shall publish in the
Federal Register
an announcement of the grant application process for the year(s), including program priorities or special considerations (if any), applicant eligibility criteria, the required application contents, the amount of available funding and evaluation criteria for off-reservation programs.
(c) Based on the announcement described in paragraph (b) of this section, an off-reservation applicant shall prepare a multi-year developmental application in accordance with § 23.33 of this subpart. To be considered in the area competitive review and scoring process, a complete application must be received by the deadline announced in the
Federal Register
by the Regional Director designated at § 23.11 for processing ICWA notices for the state in which the applicant is located.
(d) Eligibility requirements for off-reservation Indian organizations. The Secretary or his/her designee shall, contingent upon the availability of funds, make a multi-year grant under this subpart for an off-reservation program when officially requested by a resolution of the board of directors of the Indian organization applicant, upon the applicant's fulfillment of the mandatory application requirements and upon the applicant's successful competition pursuant to § 23.33 of this subpart.
(e) A grant under this subpart for an off-reservation Indian organization
shall be limited to the board of directors of the Indian organization which will administer the grant.
(f) Continued annual funding of a multi-year grant award to an off-reservation ICWA program under this subpart shall be contingent upon the grantee's fulfillment of the requirements delineated at § 23.33 (e).
(g) Monitoring and program reporting requirements for grants awarded to off-reservation Indian organizations under this subpart are delineated at §§ 23.44 and 23.47.
§ 23.32
Purpose of off-reservation grants.
The Secretary or his/her designee is authorized to make grants to off-reservation Indian organizations to establish and operate off-reservation Indian child and family service programs for the purpose of stabilizing Indian families and tribes, preventing the breakup of Indian families and, in particular, to ensure that the permanent removal of an Indian child from the custody of his/her Indian parent or Indian custodian shall be a last resort. Child and family service programs may include, but are not limited to:
(a) A system for regulating, maintaining, and supporting Indian foster and adoptive homes, including a subsidy program under which Indian adoptive children may be provided support comparable to that for which they would be eligible as Indian foster children, taking into account the appropriate state standards of support for maintenance and medical needs;
(b) The operation and maintenance of facilities and services for counseling and treatment of Indian families and Indian foster and adoptive children with the goal of strengthening and stabilizing Indian families;
(c) Family assistance (including homemaker and home counselors), protective day care and afterschool care, employment support services, recreational activities, and respite care with the goal of strengthening Indian families and contributing toward family stability; and
(d) Guidance, legal representation and advice to Indian families involved in state child custody proceedings.
§ 23.33
Competitive off-reservation application contents and application selection criteria.
(a) An application for a competitive multi-year grant under this subpart shall be submitted to the appropriate Regional Director prior to or on the announced deadline date published in the
Federal Register.
The Regional Director shall certify the application contents pursuant to § 23.34 and forward the application within five working days to the area review committee, composed of members designated by the Regional Director, for competitive review and action. Modifications and/or information received after the close of the application period, as announced in the
Federal Register,
shall not be reviewed or considered by the area review committee in the competitive process.
(b) Mandatory application requirements for Indian organization applicants shall include:
(1) An official request for an ICWA grant program from the organization's board of directors covering the duration of the proposed program;
(2) A completed Application for Federal Assistance form, SF 424;
(3) Written assurances that the organization meets the definition of Indian organization at § 23.2;
(4) A copy of the organization's current Articles of Incorporation for the applicable grant years;
(5) Proof of the organization's nonprofit status;
(6) A copy of the organization's IRS tax exemption certificate and IRS employer identification number;
(7) Proof of liability insurance for the applicable grant years; and
(8) Current written assurances that the requirements of Circular A-128 for fiscal management, accounting, and recordkeeping are met.
(9) Pursuant to the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, all grantees under this subpart shall comply with the mandatory Drug-Free Workplace Certification, a regulatory requirement for Federal grant recipients.
(c)
Competitive application selection criteria.
The Regional Director or his/her designated representative shall select those proposals which will in his/her judgment best promote the proposes of
the Act. Selection shall be made through the area review committee process in which each application will be scored individually and ranked according to score, taking into consideration the mandatory requirements as specified above and the following selection criteria:
(1) The degree to which the application reflects an understanding of the social problems or issues affecting the resident Indian client population which the applicant proposes to serve;
(2) Whether the applicant presents a narrative needs assessment, quantitative data and demographics of the client Indian population to be served;
(3) Estimates of the number of Indian people to receive benefits or services from the program based on available data;
(4) Program goals and objectives to be achieved through the grant;
(5) A comprehensive developmental multi-year narrative plan describing what specific services and/or activities will be provided each program year and addressing the above-identified social problems or issues. At a minimum, the plan must include a narrative description of the program; the program goals and objectives, stated in measurable terms, to be achieved through the grant; and the methodology, including culturally defined approaches, and procedures by which the grantee will accomplish the identified goals and objectives;
(6) An internal monitoring system the grantee will use to measure progress and accomplishments, and to ensure that the quality and quantity of actual performance conforms to the requirements of the grant;
(7) Documentation of the relative accessibility which the Indian population to be served under a specific proposal already has to existing child and family service programs emphasizing the prevention of Indian family breakups, such as mandatory state services. Factors to be considered in determining accessibility include:
(i) Cultural barriers;
(ii) Discrimination against Indians;
(iii) Inability of potential Indian clientele to pay for services;
(iv) Technical barriers created by existing public or private programs;
(v) Availability of transportation to existing programs;
(vi) Distance between the Indian community to be served under the proposal and the nearest existing programs;
(vii) Quality of services provided to Indian clientele; and
(viii) Relevance of services provided to specific needs of the Indian clientele.
(8) If the proposed program duplicates existing Federal, state, or local child and family service programs emphasizing the prevention of Indian family breakups, proper and current documented evidence that repeated attempts to obtain services have been unsuccessful;
(9) Evidence of substantial support from the Indian community or communities to be served, including but not limited to:
(i) Tribal support evidenced by a tribal resolution or cooperative service agreements between the administrative bodies of the affected tribe(s) and the applicant for the duration of the grant period, or
(ii) Letters of support from social services organizations familiar with the applicant's past work experience;
(10) A staffing plan that is consistent with the implementation of the above-described program plan of operation and the procedures necessary for the successful delivery of services. The plan must include proposed key personnel, their qualifications, training or experience relevant to the services to be provided, responsibilities, Indian preference criteria for employment and position descriptions. In accordance with 25 U.S.C. 3201
et seq.
(Pub. L. 101-630), title IV, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act, grantees shall conduct character and background investigations of those personnel identified in that statute prior to their actual employment;
(11) The reasonableness and relevance of the estimated overall costs of the proposed program or services and their overall relation to the organization's funding base, activities, and mission;
(12) The degree to which the detailed annual budget and justification for the requested funds are consistent with, and clearly supported by, the proposed
plan and by appropriate program services and activities for the applicable grant year;
(13) The applicant's identification of any consultants and/or subgrantees it proposes to employ; description of the services to be rendered; the qualifications and experience of said personnel, reflecting the requirements for performing the identified services; and the basis for the cost and the amount to be paid for such services;
(14) Certification by a licensed accountant that the bookkeeping and accounting procedures that the applicant uses or intends to use meet existing Federal standards for grant administration and management specified at § 23.46;
(15) The compliance of property management and recordkeeping systems with subpart D of 43 CFR part 2 (the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a), and with existing Federal requirements for grants at 25 CFR 276.5 and 276.11, including the maintenance and safeguarding of direct service case records on families and/or individuals served by the grant;
(16) A description of the proposed facilities, equipment, and buildings necessary to carry out the grant activities; and
(17) Proof of liability insurance coverage for the applicable grant year(s).
(d) Two or more applications receiving the same competitive score will be prioritized in accordance with announcements made in the
Federal Register
pursuant to § 23.31 (b) for the applicable year(s).
(e) Continued annual funding of a multi-year grant award to an off-reservation ICWA program under this subpart shall be contingent upon the availability of appropriated funds and upon the existing grant program receiving a satisfactory program evaluation from the area social services office for the previous year of operation. A copy of this evaluation shall be submitted together with an annual budget and budget narrative justification in accordance with paragraph (c)(10) of this section. Minimum standards for receiving a satisfactory evaluation shall include the timely submission of all fiscal and programmatic reports; a narrative program report indicating work accomplished in accordance with the initial approved multi-year plan; and the implementation of mutually determined corrective action measures, if applicable.
§ 23.34
Review and decision on off-reservation applications by Regional Director.
(a)
Area office certification.
Upon receipt of an application for a grant by an off-reservation Indian organization at the area office, the Regional Director shall:
(1) Complete and sign the area office certification form. In completing the area certification form, the Regional Director shall assess and certify whether applications contain and meet all the application requirements specified at § 23.33. Regional Directors shall be responsible for the completion of the area office certification forms for all applications submitted by off-reservation Indian organizations.
(2) Acknowledge receipt of the application to the applicant and advise the applicant of the disposition of the application within 10 days of receipt; and
(3) Transmit all applications within five working days of receipt to the area review committee for competitive review and subsequent approval or disapproval of the applications.
(b)
Area office competitive review and decision for off-reservation applications.
Upon receipt of an application for an off-reservation grant under this part requiring the approval of the Regional Director, the Regional Director shall:
(1) Establish and convene an area review committee, chaired by a person qualified by knowledge, training and experience in the delivery of Indian child and family services.
(2) Review the area office certification form required in paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) Review the application in accordance with the competitive review procedures prescribed in § 23.33. An application shall not receive approval for funding under the area competitive review and scoring process unless a review of the application determines that it:
(i) Contains all the information required in § 23.33 which must be received by the close of the application period.
Modifications of the grant application received after the close of the application period shall not be considered in the competitive review process.
(ii) Receives at least the established minimum score in an area competitive review, using the application selection criteria and scoring process set out in § 23.33. The minimum score shall be established by the Central Office prior to each application period and announced in the
Federal Register
for the applicable grants year(s).
(4) Approve or disapprove the application and promptly notify the applicant in writing of the approval or disapproval of the application. If the application is disapproved, the Regional Director shall include in the written notice the specific reasons therefore.
(c) The actual funding amounts for the initial grant year shall be subject to appropriations available nationwide and the continued funding of an approved off-reservation grant application under subpart D of this part shall be subject to available funds received by the respective area office for the applicable grant year. Initial funding decisions and subsequent decisions with respect to funding level amounts for all approved grant applications under this part shall be made by the Regional Director.
§ 23.35
Deadline for Central Office action.
Within 30 days of the receipt of grant reporting forms from the Regional Directors identifying approved and disapproved applications pursuant to subpart D of this part and recommended funding levels for approved applications, the Secretary or his/her designee shall process the Regional Directors' funding requests.

# Subpart E—General and Uniform Grant Administration Provisions and Requirements
§ 23.41
Uniform grant administration provisions, requirements and applicability.
The general and uniform grant administration provisions and requirements specified at 25 CFR part 276 and under this subpart are applicable to all grants awarded to tribal governments and off-reservation Indian organizations under this part, except to the extent inconsistent with an applicable Federal statute, regulation or OMB circular.
§ 23.42
Technical assistance.
(a) Pre-award and ongoing technical assistance may be requested by an Indian tribe or off-reservation Indian organization from the appropriate agency or area office to which the tribe or organization will be submitting an application for funds under subparts C and D of this part. A request for pre-award technical assistance by an off-reservation Indian organization must be received by the Regional Director designated at § 23.11 for the state in which the applicant is located no later than 10 days prior to the application deadline to assure sufficient time for area response.
(b) Pre-award and ongoing technical assistance may be provided by the appropriate BIA agency or area office for purposes of program planning and design, assistance in establishing internal program monitoring and evaluation criteria for ongoing grant administration and management, and for other appropriate assistance requested.
(c) The area social services staff shall provide technical assistance to grantees upon receipt of an authorized request from the grantee or when review of the grantee's quarterly performance reports shows that:
(1) An ICWA program is yielding results that are or will be detrimental to the welfare of the intended Indian beneficiaries of the program;
(2) A program has substantially failed to implement its goals and objectives;
(3) There are serious irregularities in the fiscal management of the grant; or
(4) The grantee is otherwise deficient in its program performance.
(5) Upon receiving an authorized request from the grantee, the area social services staff and/or grants officer shall provide the necessary technical assistance to arrive at mutually determined corrective action measures and their actual implementation, if necessary, and the timeframes within which said corrective actions will be implemented.
§ 23.43
Authority for grant approval and execution.
(a)
Tribal government programs.
The appropriate Agency Superintendent or Regional Director may approve a grant application and its subsequent execution under subpart C when the intent, purpose and scope of the application pertains solely to reservations located within the service area jurisdiction of the agency or area office.
(b)
Off-reservation programs.
The appropriate Regional Director may approve a grant application and its subsequent execution under subpart D when the intent, purpose and scope of the grant proposal pertains to off-reservation Indian service populations or programs.
§ 23.44
Grant administration and monitoring.
All grantees under this part shall be responsible for managing day-to-day program operations to ensure that program performance goals are being achieved and to ensure compliance with the provisions of the grant award document and other applicable Federal requirements. Unless delegated to the Agency Superintendent, appropriate area office personnel designated by the Regional Director shall be responsible for all grant program and fiscal monitoring responsibilities.
§ 23.45
Subgrants.
A tribal government grantee may make a subgrant under subpart C of this part, provided that such subgrants are for the purpose for which the grant was made and that the grantee retains administrative and financial responsibility over the activity and the funds.
§ 23.46
Financial management, internal and external controls and other assurances.
Grantee financial management systems shall comply with the following standards for accurate, current and complete disclosure of financial activities.
(a) OMB Circular A-87 (Cost principles for state and local governments and federally recognized Indian tribal governments).
(b) OMB Circular A-102 (Common rule 43 CFR part 12).
(c) OMB Circular A-128 (Single Audit Act).
(d) OMB Circular A-110 or 122 (Cost principles for non-profit organizations and tribal organizations, where applicable).
(e)
Internal control.
Effective control and accountability must be maintained for all grants. Grantees must adequately safeguard any property and must ensure that it is used solely for authorized purposes.
(f)
Budget control.
Actual expenditures must be compared with budgeted amounts for the grant. Financial information must be related to program performance requirements.
(g)
Source documentation.
Accounting records must be supported by such source documentation as cancelled checks, paid bills, payrolls, time and attendance records, grant documents, or other information required by the grantee's financial management system. The Secretary or his/her designee may review the adequacy of the financial management system of an Indian tribe(s) or off-reservation Indian organization applying for a grant under this part.
(h) Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 641, whoever embezzles, steals, purloins, or knowingly converts to his or her use or the use of another, or without authority, sells, conveys or disposes of any record, voucher, money, or thing of value of the United States or of any department or agency thereof, or any property made or being made under contract for the United States or any department or agency thereof; or whoever receives, conceals, or retains the same with intent to convert it to his or her use or gain, knowing it to have been embezzled, stolen, purloined, or converted shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both; but if the value of such property does not exceed the sum of $100, he or she shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
§ 23.47
Reports and availability of information to Indians.
(a) Any tribal government or off-reservation Indian organization receiving
a grant under this part shall make general programmatic information and reports concerning that grant available to the Indian people it serves or represents. Access to this information may be requested in writing and shall be made available within 10 days of receipt of the request. Except as required by title IV of Pub. L. 101-630, the Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act, grantees shall hold confidential all information obtained from persons receiving services from the program, and shall not release such information without the individual's written consent. Information may be disclosed in a manner which does not identify or lead to the identification of particular individuals.
(b) Grantees shall submit Standard Form 269 or 269A on a quarterly and an annual basis to report their status of funds by the dates specified in the grant award document.
(c) Grantees shall furnish and submit the following written quarterly and annual program reports by the dates specified in the award document:
(1) Quarterly and annual statistical and narrative program performance reports which shall include, but need not be limited to, the following;
(i) A summary of actual accomplishments and significant activities as related to program objectives established for the grant period;
(ii) The grantee's evaluation of program performance using the internal monitoring system submitted in their application;
(iii) Reports on all significant ICWA direct service grant activities including but not limited to the following information:
(A) Significant title II activities;
(B) Data reflecting numbers of individuals referred for out-of-home placements, number of individuals benefiting from title II services and types of services provided, and
(C) Information and referral activities.
(iv) Child abuse and neglect statistical reports and related information as required by 25 U.S.C. 2434, Pub. L. 99-570, the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986;
(v) A summary of problems encountered or reasons for not meeting established objectives;
(vi) Any deliverable or product required in the grant; and
(vii) Additional pertinent information when appropriate.
(2) The BIA may negotiate for the provision of other grant-related reports not previously identified.
(d) Events may occur between scheduled performance reporting dates which have significant impact on the grant-supported activity. In such cases, the grantee must inform the awarding agency as soon as problems, delays, adverse conditions, or serious incidents giving rise to liability become known and which will materially impair its ability to meet the objectives of the grant.
§ 23.48
Matching shares and agreements.
(a) Grant funds provided to Indian tribes under subpart C of this part may be used as non-Federal matching shares in connection with funds provided under titles IV-B, IV-E and XX of the Social Security Act or such other Federal programs which contribute to and promote the purposes of the Act as specified in §§ 23.3 and 23.22 (25 U.S.C. 1931).
(b) Pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 1933, in furtherance of the establishment, operation, and funding of programs funded under subparts C and D of this part, the Secretary may enter into agreements with the Secretary of Health and Human Services. The latter Secretary is authorized by the Act to use funds appropriated for the Department of Health and Human Services for programs similar to those funded under subparts C and D of this part (25 U.S.C. 1931 and 1932), provided that authority to make payment pursuant to such agreements shall be effective only to the extent and in such amounts as may be provided in advance by appropriation Acts.
§ 23.49
Fair and uniform provision of services.
(a) Grants awarded under this part shall include provisions assuring compliance with the Indian Civil Rights
Act; prohibiting discriminatory distinctions among eligible Indian beneficiaries; and assuring the fair and uniform provision by the grantees of the services and assistance they provide to eligible Indian beneficiaries under such grants. Such procedures must include criteria by which eligible Indian beneficiaries will receive services, recordkeeping mechanisms adequate to verify the fairness and uniformity of services in cases of formal complaints, and an explanation of what rights will be afforded an individual pending the resolution of a complaint.
(b) Indian beneficiaries of the services to be rendered under a grant shall be afforded access to administrative or judicial bodies empowered to adjudicate complaints, claims, or grievances brought by such Indian beneficiaries against the grantee arising out of the performance of the grant.
§ 23.50
Service eligibility.
(a) Tribal government Indian child and family service programs. Any person meeting the definition of Indian, Indian child, Indian custodian, or Indian parent of any unmarried person under the age of 18 as defined in § 23.2 is eligible for services provided under 25 U.S.C. 1931 of the Act. Tribal membership status shall be determined by tribal law, ordinance, or custom. The tribe may, under subpart C, extend services to nontribal family members related by marriage to tribal members, provided such services promote the intent and purposes of the Act. A tribe may also, within available resources, extend services under this part to individuals who are members of, or are eligible for membership in other Indian tribes, and who reside within the tribe's designated service area.
(b) Off-reservation Indian child and family service programs and agreements with the Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 1933. For purposes of eligibility for services provided under 25 U.S.C. 1932 and 1933 of the Act, any person meeting the definition of Indian, Indian child, Indian custodian, or Indian parent of any unmarried person under the age of 18 as defined in § 23.2, or the definition of Indian as defined in 25 U.S.C. 1603(c), shall be eligible for services. Tribal membership status shall be determined by tribal law, ordinance, or custom.
§ 23.51
Grant carry-over authority.
Unless restricted by appropriation, and contingent upon satisfactory program evaluations from the appropriate area or agency office for an existing program, grantees are authorized to carry over unliquidated grant funds which remain at the end of a budget period. Such funds may be carried over for a maximum period of two years beyond the initial grant funding period and must be utilized only for the intent, purpose and scope of the original grant. These carry-over grant funds shall not be reprogrammed into other appropriation activities or subactivities. Funds carried over into another fiscal year will be added to the grantee's new fiscal year funding amount.
§ 23.52
Grant suspension.
(a) When a grantee has materially failed to comply and remains out of compliance with the terms and conditions of the grant, the grants officer may, after reasonable notice to the grantee and the provision of requested technical assistance, suspend the grant. The notice preceding the suspension shall include the effective date of the suspension, the corrective measures necessary for reinstatement of the grant and, if there is no immediate threat to safety, a reasonable timeframe for corrective action prior to actual suspension.
(b) No obligation incurred by the grantee during the period of suspension shall be allowable under the suspended grant, except that the grants officer may at his/her discretion allow necessary and proper costs which the grantee could not reasonably avoid during the period of suspension if such costs would otherwise be allowable under the applicable cost principles.
(c) Appropriate adjustments to the payments under the suspended grant will be made either by withholding the payments or by not allowing the grantee credit for disbursements which the grantee may make in liquidation of unauthorized obligations the grantee incurs during the period of suspension.
(d) Suspension shall remain in effect until the grantee has taken corrective action to the satisfaction of the grants officer, or given assurances satisfactory to the grants officer that corrective action will be taken, or until the grants officer cancels the grant.
§ 23.53
Cancellation.
(a) The grants officer may cancel any grant, in whole or in part, at any time before the date of completion whenever it is determined that the grantee has:
(1) Materially failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the grant;
(2) Violated the rights as specified in § 23.49 or endangered the health, safety, or welfare of any person; or
(3) Been grossly negligent in, or has mismanaged the handling or use of funds provided under the grant.
(b) When it appears that cancellation of the grant will become necessary, the grants officer shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of this possibility. This written notice shall advise the grantee of the reason for the possible cancellation and the corrective action necessary to avoid cancellation. The grants officer shall also offer, and shall provide, if requested by the grantee, any technical assistance which may be required to effect the corrective action. The grantee shall have 60 days in which to effect this corrective action before the grants officer provides notice of intent to cancel the grant as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) Upon deciding to cancel for cause, the grants officer shall promptly notify the grantee in writing of that decision, the reason for the cancellation, and the effective date. The Regional Director or his/her designated official shall also provide a hearing for the grantee before cancellation. However, the grants officer may immediately cancel the grant, upon notice to the grantee, if the grants officer determines that continuance of the grant poses an immediate threat to safety. In this event, the Regional Director or his/her designated official shall provide a hearing for the grantee within 10 days of the cancellation.
(d) The hearing referred to in paragraph (c) of this section shall be conducted as follows:
(1) The grantee affected shall be notified, in writing, at least 10 days before the hearing. The notice should give the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing.
(2) A written record of the hearing shall be made. The record shall include written statements submitted at the hearing or within five days following the hearing.

# Subpart F—Appeals
§ 23.61
Appeals from decision or action by Agency Superintendent, Regional Director or Grants Officer.
A grantee or prospective applicant may appeal any decision made or action taken by the Agency Superintendent, Regional Director, or grants officer under subpart C or E of this part. Such an appeal shall be made to the Assistant Secretary who shall consider the appeal in accordance with 25 CFR 2.20 (c) through (e). Appeal procedures shall be as set out in part 2 of this chapter.
§ 23.62
Appeals from decision or action by Regional Director under subpart D.
A grantee or applicant may appeal any decision made or action taken by the Regional Director under subpart D that is alleged to be in violation of the U.S. Constitution, Federal statutes, or the regulations of this part. These appeals shall be filed with the Interior Board of Indian Appeals in accordance with 25 CFR 2.4 (e); 43 CFR 4.310 through 4.318 and 43 CFR 4.330 through 4.340. However, an applicant may not appeal a score assigned to its application or the amount of grant funds awarded.
§ 23.63
Appeals from inaction of official.
A person or persons whose interests are adversely affected, or whose ability to protect such interests is impeded by the failure of an official to act on a request to the official, may make the official's inaction the subject of an appeal under part 2 of this chapter.

# Subpart G—Administrative Provisions
§ 23.71
Recordkeeping and information availability.
(a) The Division of Human Services, Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA), is authorized to receive all information and to maintain a central file on all State Indian adoptions. This file is confidential and only designated persons may have access to it.
(b) Upon the request of an adopted Indian who has reached age 18, the adoptive or foster parents of an Indian child, or an Indian Tribe, BIA will disclose such information as may be necessary for purposes of Tribal enrollment or determining any rights or benefits associated with Tribal membership. Where the documents relating to such child contain an affidavit from the biological parent or parents requesting anonymity, BIA must certify to the Indian child's Tribe, where the information warrants, that the child's parentage and other circumstances entitle the child to enrollment under the criteria established by such Tribe.
(c) BIA will ensure that the confidentiality of this information is maintained and that the information is not subject to the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended.
[81 FR 38867, June 14, 2016]

# Subpart H—Assistance to State Courts
§ 23.81
Assistance in identifying witnesses.
Upon the request of a party in an involuntary Indian child custody proceeding or of a court, the Secretary or his/her designee shall assist in identifying qualified expert witnesses. Such requests for assistance shall be sent to the Regional Director designated in § 23.11(c). The BIA is not obligated to pay for the services of such expert witnesses.
§ 23.82
Assistance in identifying language interpreters.
Upon the request of a party in an Indian child custody proceeding or of a court, the Secretary or his/her designee shall assist in identifying language interpreters. Such requests for assistance should be sent to the Regional Director designated in § 23.11(c). The BIA is not obligated to pay for the services of such language interpreters.
§ 23.83
Assistance in locating biological parents of Indian child after termination of adoption.
Upon the request of a child placement agency, the court or an Indian tribe, the Secretary or his/her designee shall assist in locating the biological parents or prior Indian custodians of an adopted Indian child whose adoption has been terminated pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 1914. Such requests for assistance should be sent to the Regional Director designated in § 23.11(c).

# Subpart I—Indian Child Welfare Act Proceedings

# Source:
81 FR 38867, June 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 23.101
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The regulations in this subpart clarify the minimum Federal standards governing implementation of the Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) to ensure that ICWA is applied in all States consistent with the Act's express language, Congress's intent in enacting the statute, and to promote the stability and security of Indian tribes and families.
§ 23.102
What terms do I need to know?
The following terms and their definitions apply to this subpart. All other terms have the meanings assigned in § 23.2.
Agency
means a nonprofit, for-profit, or governmental organization and its employees, agents, or officials that performs, or provides services to biological parents, foster parents, or adoptive parents to assist in the administrative and social work necessary for foster, preadoptive, or adoptive placements.
Indian organization
means any group, association, partnership, corporation,
or other legal entity owned or controlled by Indians or a Tribe, or a majority of whose members are Indians.
§ 23.103
When does ICWA apply?
(a) ICWA includes requirements that apply whenever an Indian child is the subject of:
(1) A child-custody proceeding, including:
(i) An involuntary proceeding;
(ii) A voluntary proceeding that could prohibit the parent or Indian custodian from regaining custody of the child upon demand; and
(iii) A proceeding involving status offenses if any part of the proceeding results in the need for out-of-home placement of the child, including a foster-care, preadoptive, or adoptive placement, or termination of parental rights.
(2) An emergency proceeding.
(b) ICWA does not apply to:
(1) A Tribal court proceeding;
(2) A proceeding regarding a criminal act that is not a status offense;
(3) An award of custody of the Indian child to one of the parents including, but not limited to, an award in a divorce proceeding; or
(4) A voluntary placement that either parent, both parents, or the Indian custodian has, of his or her or their free will, without a threat of removal by a State agency, chosen for the Indian child and that does not operate to prohibit the child's parent or Indian custodian from regaining custody of the child upon demand.
(c) If a proceeding listed in paragraph (a) of this section concerns a child who meets the statutory definition of “Indian child,” then ICWA will apply to that proceeding. In determining whether ICWA applies to a proceeding, the State court may not consider factors such as the participation of the parents or the Indian child in Tribal cultural, social, religious, or political activities, the relationship between the Indian child and his or her parents, whether the parent ever had custody of the child, or the Indian child's blood quantum.
(d) If ICWA applies at the commencement of a proceeding, it will not cease to apply simply because the child reaches age 18 during the pendency of the proceeding.
§ 23.104
What provisions of this subpart apply to each type of child-custody proceeding?
The following table lists what sections of this subpart apply to each type of child-custody proceeding identified in § 23.103(a):
Section
Type of proceeding
23.101-23.106 (General Provisions)
Emergency, Involuntary, Voluntary.
Pretrial Requirements:
23.107 (How should a State court determine if there is reason to know the child is an Indian child?)
Emergency, Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.108 (Who makes the determination as to whether a child is a member whether a child is eligible for membership, or whether a biological parent is a member of a Tribe?)
Emergency, Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.109 (How should a State court determine an Indian child's Tribe when the child may be a member or eligible for membership in more than one Tribe?)
Emergency, Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.110 (When must a State court dismiss an action?)
Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.111 (What are the notice requirements for a child-custody proceeding involving an Indian child?)
Involuntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
23.112 (What time limits and extensions apply?)
Involuntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
23.113 (What are the standards for emergency proceedings involving an Indian child?)
Emergency.
23.114 (What are the requirements for determining improper removal?)
Involuntary.
Petitions to Transfer to Tribal Court:
23.115 (How are petitions for transfer of a proceeding made?)
Involuntary, Voluntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
23.116 (What happens after a petition for transfer is made?)
Involuntary, Voluntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
23.117 (What are the criteria for ruling on transfer petitions?)
Involuntary, Voluntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
23.118 (How is a determination of “good cause” to deny transfer made?)
Involuntary, Voluntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
23.119 (What happens after a petition for transfer is granted?)
Involuntary, Voluntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
Adjudication of Involuntary Proceedings:
23.120 (How does the State court ensure that active efforts have been made?)
Involuntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
23.121 (What are the applicable standards of evidence?)
Involuntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
23.122 (Who may serve as a qualified expert witness?)
Involuntary (foster-care placement and termination of parental rights).
23.123 Reserved
N/A.
Voluntary Proceedings:
23.124 (What actions must a State court undertake in voluntary proceedings?)
Voluntary.
23.125 (How is consent obtained?)
Voluntary.
23.126 (What information must a consent document contain?)
Voluntary.
23.127 (How is withdrawal of consent to a foster-care placement achieved?)
Voluntary.
23.128 (How is withdrawal of consent to a termination of parental rights or adoption achieved?)
Voluntary.
Dispositions:
23.129 (When do the placement preferences apply?)
Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.130 (What placement preferences apply in adoptive placements?)
Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.131 (What placement preferences apply in foster-care or preadoptive placements?)
Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.132 (How is a determination of “good cause” to depart from the placement preferences made?)
Involuntary, Voluntary.
Access:
23.133 (Should courts allow participation by alternative methods?)
Emergency, Involuntary.
23.134 (Who has access to reports and records during a proceeding?)
Emergency, Involuntary.
23.135 Reserved.
N/A.
Post-Trial Rights
Responsibilities:
23.136 (What are the requirements for vacating an adoption based on consent having been obtained through fraud or duress?)
Involuntary (if consent given under threat of removal), voluntary.
23.137 (Who can petition to invalidate an action for certain ICWA violations?)
Emergency (to extent it involved a specified violation), involuntary, voluntary.
23.138 (What are the rights to information about adoptees' Tribal affiliations?)
Emergency, Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.139 (Must notice be given of a change in an adopted Indian child's status?)
Involuntary, Voluntary.
Recordkeeping:
23.140 (What information must States furnish to the Bureau of Indian Affairs?)
Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.141 (What records must the State maintain?)
Involuntary, Voluntary.
23.142 (How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this subpart?)
Emergency, Involuntary, Voluntary.
Effective Date:
23.143 (How does this subpart apply to pending proceedings?)
Emergency, Involuntary, Voluntary.
Severability:
23.144 (What happens if some portion of part is held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction?)
Emergency, Involuntary, Voluntary.
Note:
For purposes of this table, status-offense child-custody proceedings are included as a type of involuntary proceeding.
§ 23.105
How do I contact a Tribe under the regulations in this subpart?
To contact a Tribe to provide notice or obtain information or verification under the regulations in this subpart, you should direct the notice or inquiry as follows:
(a) Many Tribes designate an agent for receipt of ICWA notices. The BIA publishes a list of Tribes' designated Tribal agents for service of ICWA notice in the
Federal Register
each year and makes the list available on its Web site at
www.bia.gov.
(b) For a Tribe without a designated Tribal agent for service of ICWA notice, contact the Tribe to be directed to the appropriate office or individual.
(c) If you do not have accurate contact information for a Tribe, or the Tribe contacted fails to respond to written inquiries, you should seek assistance in contacting the Indian Tribe from the BIA local or regional office or the BIA's Central Office in Washington, DC (see
www.bia.gov
).
§ 23.106
How does this subpart interact with State and Federal laws?
(a) The regulations in this subpart provide minimum Federal standards to ensure compliance with ICWA.
(b) Under section 1921 of ICWA, where applicable State or other Federal law provides a higher standard of protection to the rights of the parent or Indian custodian than the protection accorded under the Act, ICWA requires the State or Federal court to apply the higher State or Federal standard.

# Pretrial Requirements
§ 23.107
How should a State court determine if there is reason to know the child is an Indian child?
(a) State courts must ask each participant in an emergency or voluntary or involuntary child-custody proceeding whether the participant knows or has reason to know that the child is an Indian child. The inquiry is made at the commencement of the proceeding and all responses should be on the record. State courts must instruct the parties to inform the court if they subsequently receive information that provides reason to know the child is an Indian child.
(b) If there is reason to know the child is an Indian child, but the court does not have sufficient evidence to determine that the child is or is not an “Indian child,” the court must:
(1) Confirm, by way of a report, declaration, or testimony included in the record that the agency or other party used due diligence to identify and work with all of the Tribes of which there is reason to know the child may be a member (or eligible for membership), to verify whether the child is in fact a member (or a biological parent is a member and the child is eligible for membership); and
(2) Treat the child as an Indian child, unless and until it is determined on the record that the child does not meet the definition of an “Indian child” in this part.
(c) A court, upon conducting the inquiry required in paragraph (a) of this section, has reason to know that a child involved in an emergency or child-custody proceeding is an Indian child if:
(1) Any participant in the proceeding, officer of the court involved in the proceeding, Indian Tribe, Indian organization, or agency informs the court that the child is an Indian child;
(2) Any participant in the proceeding, officer of the court involved in the proceeding, Indian Tribe, Indian organization, or agency informs the court that it has discovered information indicating that the child is an Indian child;
(3) The child who is the subject of the proceeding gives the court reason to know he or she is an Indian child;
(4) The court is informed that the domicile or residence of the child, the child's parent, or the child's Indian custodian is on a reservation or in an Alaska Native village;
(5) The court is informed that the child is or has been a ward of a Tribal court; or
(6) The court is informed that either parent or the child possesses an identification card indicating membership in an Indian Tribe.
(d) In seeking verification of the child's status in a voluntary proceeding where a consenting parent evidences, by written request or statement in the record, a desire for anonymity, the court must keep relevant documents pertaining to the inquiry required under this section confidential and under seal. A request for anonymity does not relieve the court, agency, or other party from any duty of compliance with ICWA, including the obligation to verify whether the child is an “Indian child.” A Tribe receiving information related to this inquiry must keep documents and information confidential.
§ 23.108
Who makes the determination as to whether a child is a member, whether a child is eligible for membership, or whether a biological parent is a member of a Tribe?
(a) The Indian Tribe of which it is believed the child is a member (or eligible for membership and of which the biological parent is a member) determines whether the child is a member of the Tribe, or whether the child is eligible for membership in the Tribe and a biological parent of the child is a member of the Tribe, except as otherwise provided by Federal or Tribal law.
(b) The determination by a Tribe of whether a child is a member, whether a child is eligible for membership, or whether a biological parent is a member, is solely within the jurisdiction and authority of the Tribe, except as otherwise provided by Federal or Tribal law. The State court may not substitute its own determination regarding a child's membership in a Tribe, a child's eligibility for membership in a Tribe, or a parent's membership in a Tribe.
(c) The State court may rely on facts or documentation indicating a Tribal determination of membership or eligibility for membership in making a judicial determination as to whether the child is an “Indian child.” An example of documentation indicating membership is a document issued by the Tribe, such as Tribal enrollment documentation.
§ 23.109
How should a State court determine an Indian child's Tribe when the child may be a member or eligible for membership in more than one Tribe?
(a) If the Indian child is a member or eligible for membership in only one Tribe, that Tribe must be designated as the Indian child's Tribe.
(b) If the Indian child meets the definition of “Indian child” through more than one Tribe, deference should be given to the Tribe in which the Indian child is already a member, unless otherwise agreed to by the Tribes.
(c) If an Indian child meets the definition of “Indian child” through more than one Tribe because the child is a member in more than one Tribe or the child is not a member of but is eligible for membership in more than one Tribe, the court must provide the opportunity in any involuntary child-custody proceeding for the Tribes to determine which should be designated as the Indian child's Tribe.
(1) If the Tribes are able to reach an agreement, the agreed-upon Tribe should be designated as the Indian child's Tribe.
(2) If the Tribes are unable to reach an agreement, the State court designates, for the purposes of ICWA, the Indian Tribe with which the Indian child has the more significant contacts as the Indian child's Tribe, taking into consideration:
(i) Preference of the parents for membership of the child;
(ii) Length of past domicile or residence on or near the reservation of each Tribe;
(iii) Tribal membership of the child's custodial parent or Indian custodian; and
(iv) Interest asserted by each Tribe in the child-custody proceeding;
(v) Whether there has been a previous adjudication with respect to the child by a court of one of the Tribes; and
(vi) Self-identification by the child, if the child is of sufficient age and capacity to meaningfully self-identify.
(3) A determination of the Indian child's Tribe for purposes of ICWA and the regulations in this subpart do not constitute a determination for any other purpose.
§ 23.110
When must a State court dismiss an action?
Subject to 25 U.S.C. 1919 (Agreements between States and Indian Tribes) and § 23.113 (emergency proceedings), the following limitations on a State court's jurisdiction apply:
(a) The court in any voluntary or involuntary child-custody proceeding involving an Indian child must determine the residence and domicile of the Indian child. If either the residence or domicile is on a reservation where the Tribe exercises exclusive jurisdiction over child-custody proceedings, the State court must expeditiously notify the Tribal court of the pending dismissal based on the Tribe's exclusive jurisdiction, dismiss the State-court child-custody proceeding, and ensure that the Tribal court is sent all information regarding the Indian child-custody proceeding, including, but not limited to, the pleadings and any court record.
(b) If the child is a ward of a Tribal court, the State court must expeditiously notify the Tribal court of the pending dismissal, dismiss the State-court child-custody proceeding, and ensure that the Tribal court is sent all information regarding the Indian child-custody proceeding, including, but not limited to, the pleadings and any court record.
§ 23.111
What are the notice requirements for a child-custody proceeding involving an Indian child?
(a) When a court knows or has reason to know that the subject of an involuntary foster-care-placement or termination-of-parental-rights proceeding is an Indian child, the court must ensure that:
(1) The party seeking placement promptly sends notice of each such child-custody proceeding (including, but not limited to, any foster-care placement or any termination of parental or custodial rights) in accordance with this section; and
(2) An original or a copy of each notice sent under this section is filed with the court together with any return receipts or other proof of service.
(b) Notice must be sent to:
(1) Each Tribe where the child may be a member (or eligible for membership if a biological parent is a member) (
see
§ 23.105 for information on how to contact a Tribe);
(2) The child's parents; and
(3) If applicable, the child's Indian custodian.
(c) Notice must be sent by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested. Notice may also be sent via personal service or electronically, but such alternative methods do not replace the requirement for notice to be sent by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested.
(d) Notice must be in clear and understandable language and include the following:
(1) The child's name, birthdate, and birthplace;
(2) All names known (including maiden, married, and former names or aliases) of the parents, the parents' birthdates and birthplaces, and Tribal enrollment numbers if known;
(3) If known, the names, birthdates, birthplaces, and Tribal enrollment information of other direct lineal ancestors of the child, such as grandparents;
(4) The name of each Indian Tribe in which the child is a member (or may be eligible for membership if a biological parent is a member);
(5) A copy of the petition, complaint, or other document by which the child-custody proceeding was initiated and, if a hearing has been scheduled, information on the date, time, and location of the hearing;
(6) Statements setting out:
(i) The name of the petitioner and the name and address of petitioner's attorney;
(ii) The right of any parent or Indian custodian of the child, if not already a party to the child-custody proceeding, to intervene in the proceedings.
(iii) The Indian Tribe's right to intervene at any time in a State-court proceeding for the foster-care placement of or termination of parental rights to an Indian child.
(iv) That, if the child's parent or Indian custodian is unable to afford counsel based on a determination of indigency by the court, the parent or Indian custodian has the right to court-appointed counsel.
(v) The right to be granted, upon request, up to 20 additional days to prepare for the child-custody proceedings.
(vi) The right of the parent or Indian custodian and the Indian child's Tribe to petition the court for transfer of the foster-care-placement or termination-of-parental-rights proceeding to Tribal court as provided by 25 U.S.C. 1911 and § 23.115.
(vii) The mailing addresses and telephone numbers of the court and information related to all parties to the child-custody proceeding and individuals notified under this section.
(viii) The potential legal consequences of the child-custody proceedings on the future parental and custodial rights of the parent or Indian custodian.
(ix) That all parties notified must keep confidential the information contained in the notice and the notice should not be handled by anyone not needing the information to exercise rights under ICWA.
(e) If the identity or location of the child's parents, the child's Indian custodian, or the Tribes in which the Indian child is a member or eligible for membership cannot be ascertained, but there is reason to know the child is an Indian child, notice of the child-custody proceeding must be sent to the appropriate Bureau of Indian Affairs Regional Director (see
www.bia.gov
). To establish Tribal identity, as much information as is known regarding the
child's direct lineal ancestors should be provided. The Bureau of Indian Affairs will not make a determination of Tribal membership but may, in some instances, be able to identify Tribes to contact.
(f) If there is a reason to know that a parent or Indian custodian possesses limited English proficiency and is therefore not likely to understand the contents of the notice, the court must provide language access services as required by Title VI of the Civil Rights Act and other Federal laws. To secure such translation or interpretation support, a court may contact or direct a party to contact the Indian child's Tribe or the local BIA office for assistance in locating and obtaining the name of a qualified translator or interpreter.
(g) If a parent or Indian custodian of an Indian child appears in court without an attorney, the court must inform him or her of his or her rights, including any applicable right to appointed counsel, right to request that the child-custody proceeding be transferred to Tribal court, right to object to such transfer, right to request additional time to prepare for the child-custody proceeding as provided in § 23.112, and right (if the parent or Indian custodian is not already a party) to intervene in the child-custody proceedings.
§ 23.112
What time limits and extensions apply?
(a) No foster-care-placement or termination-of-parental-rights proceeding may be held until at least 10 days after receipt of the notice by the parent (or Indian custodian) and by the Tribe (or the Secretary). The parent, Indian custodian, and Tribe each have a right, upon request, to be granted up to 20 additional days from the date upon which notice was received to prepare for participation in the proceeding.
(b) Except as provided in 25 U.S.C. 1922 and § 23.113, no child-custody proceeding for foster-care placement or termination of parental rights may be held until the waiting periods to which the parents or Indian custodians and to which the Indian child's Tribe are entitled have expired, as follows:
(1) 10 days after each parent or Indian custodian (or Secretary where the parent or Indian custodian is unknown to the petitioner) has received notice of that particular child-custody proceeding in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1912(a) and § 23.111;
(2) 10 days after the Indian child's Tribe (or the Secretary if the Indian child's Tribe is unknown to the party seeking placement) has received notice of that particular child-custody proceeding in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1912(a) and § 23.111;
(3) Up to 30 days after the parent or Indian custodian has received notice of that particular child-custody proceeding in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1912(a) and § 23.111, if the parent or Indian custodian has requested up to 20 additional days to prepare for the child-custody proceeding as provided in 25 U.S.C. 1912(a) and § 23.111; and
(4) Up to 30 days after the Indian child's Tribe has received notice of that particular child-custody proceeding in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1912(a) and § 23.111, if the Indian child's Tribe has requested up to 20 additional days to prepare for the child-custody proceeding.
(c) Additional time beyond the minimum required by 25 U.S.C. 1912 and § 23.111 may also be available under State law or pursuant to extensions granted by the court.
§ 23.113
What are the standards for emergency proceedings involving an Indian child?
(a) Any emergency removal or placement of an Indian child under State law must terminate immediately when the removal or placement is no longer necessary to prevent imminent physical damage or harm to the child.
(b) The State court must:
(1) Make a finding on the record that the emergency removal or placement is necessary to prevent imminent physical damage or harm to the child;
(2) Promptly hold a hearing on whether the emergency removal or placement continues to be necessary whenever new information indicates that the emergency situation has ended; and
(3) At any court hearing during the emergency proceeding, determine whether the emergency removal or placement is no longer necessary to
prevent imminent physical damage or harm to the child.
(4) Immediately terminate (or ensure that the agency immediately terminates) the emergency proceeding once the court or agency possesses sufficient evidence to determine that the emergency removal or placement is no longer necessary to prevent imminent physical damage or harm to the child.
(c) An emergency proceeding can be terminated by one or more of the following actions:
(1) Initiation of a child-custody proceeding subject to the provisions of ICWA;
(2) Transfer of the child to the jurisdiction of the appropriate Indian Tribe; or
(3) Restoring the child to the parent or Indian custodian.
(d) A petition for a court order authorizing the emergency removal or continued emergency placement, or its accompanying documents, should contain a statement of the risk of imminent physical damage or harm to the Indian child and any evidence that the emergency removal or placement continues to be necessary to prevent such imminent physical damage or harm to the child. The petition or its accompanying documents should also contain the following information:
(1) The name, age, and last known address of the Indian child;
(2) The name and address of the child's parents and Indian custodians, if any;
(3) The steps taken to provide notice to the child's parents, custodians, and Tribe about the emergency proceeding;
(4) If the child's parents and Indian custodians are unknown, a detailed explanation of what efforts have been made to locate and contact them, including contact with the appropriate BIA Regional Director (see
www.bia.gov
);
(5) The residence and the domicile of the Indian child;
(6) If either the residence or the domicile of the Indian child is believed to be on a reservation or in an Alaska Native village, the name of the Tribe affiliated with that reservation or village;
(7) The Tribal affiliation of the child and of the parents or Indian custodians;
(8) A specific and detailed account of the circumstances that led the agency responsible for the emergency removal of the child to take that action;
(9) If the child is believed to reside or be domiciled on a reservation where the Tribe exercises exclusive jurisdiction over child-custody matters, a statement of efforts that have been made and are being made to contact the Tribe and transfer the child to the Tribe's jurisdiction; and
(10) A statement of the efforts that have been taken to assist the parents or Indian custodians so the Indian child may safely be returned to their custody.
(e) An emergency proceeding regarding an Indian child should not be continued for more than 30 days unless the court makes the following determinations:
(1) Restoring the child to the parent or Indian custodian would subject the child to imminent physical damage or harm;
(2) The court has been unable to transfer the proceeding to the jurisdiction of the appropriate Indian Tribe; and
(3) It has not been possible to initiate a “child-custody proceeding” as defined in § 23.2.
§ 23.114
What are the requirements for determining improper removal?
(a) If, in the course of any child-custody proceeding, any party asserts or the court has reason to believe that the Indian child may have been improperly removed from the custody of his or her parent or Indian custodian, or that the Indian child has been improperly retained (such as after a visit or other temporary relinquishment of custody), the court must expeditiously determine whether there was improper removal or retention.
(b) If the court finds that the Indian child was improperly removed or retained, the court must terminate the proceeding and the child must be returned immediately to his or her parent or Indian custodian, unless returning the child to his parent or Indian custodian would subject the child to
substantial and immediate danger or threat of such danger.

# Petitions To Transfer to Tribal Court
§ 23.115
How are petitions for transfer of a proceeding made?
(a) Either parent, the Indian custodian, or the Indian child's Tribe may request, at any time, orally on the record or in writing, that the State court transfer a foster-care or termination-of-parental-rights proceeding to the jurisdiction of the child's Tribe.
(b) The right to request a transfer is available at any stage in each foster-care or termination-of-parental-rights proceeding.
§ 23.116
What happens after a petition for transfer is made?
Upon receipt of a transfer petition, the State court must ensure that the Tribal court is promptly notified in writing of the transfer petition. This notification may request a timely response regarding whether the Tribal court wishes to decline the transfer.
§ 23.117
What are the criteria for ruling on transfer petitions?
Upon receipt of a transfer petition from an Indian child's parent, Indian custodian, or Tribe, the State court must transfer the child-custody proceeding unless the court determines that transfer is not appropriate because one or more of the following criteria are met:
(a) Either parent objects to such transfer;
(b) The Tribal court declines the transfer; or
(c) Good cause exists for denying the transfer.
§ 23.118
How is a determination of “good cause” to deny transfer made?
(a) If the State court believes, or any party asserts, that good cause to deny transfer exists, the reasons for that belief or assertion must be stated orally on the record or provided in writing on the record and to the parties to the child-custody proceeding.
(b) Any party to the child-custody proceeding must have the opportunity to provide the court with views regarding whether good cause to deny transfer exists.
(c) In determining whether good cause exists, the court must not consider:
(1) Whether the foster-care or termination-of-parental-rights proceeding is at an advanced stage if the Indian child's parent, Indian custodian, or Tribe did not receive notice of the child-custody proceeding until an advanced stage;
(2) Whether there have been prior proceedings involving the child for which no petition to transfer was filed;
(3) Whether transfer could affect the placement of the child;
(4) The Indian child's cultural connections with the Tribe or its reservation; or
(5) Socioeconomic conditions or any negative perception of Tribal or BIA social services or judicial systems.
(d) The basis for any State-court decision to deny transfer should be stated orally on the record or in a written order.
§ 23.119
What happens after a petition for transfer is granted?
(a) If the Tribal court accepts the transfer, the State court should expeditiously provide the Tribal court with all records related to the proceeding, including, but not limited to, the pleadings and any court record.
(b) The State court should work with the Tribal court to ensure that the transfer of the custody of the Indian child and of the proceeding is accomplished smoothly and in a way that minimizes the disruption of services to the family.

# Adjudication of Involuntary Proceedings
§ 23.120
How does the State court ensure that active efforts have been made?
(a) Prior to ordering an involuntary foster-care placement or termination of parental rights, the court must conclude that active efforts have been made to prevent the breakup of the Indian family and that those efforts have been unsuccessful.
(b) Active efforts must be documented in detail in the record.
§ 23.121
What are the applicable standards of evidence?
(a) The court must not order a foster-care placement of an Indian child unless clear and convincing evidence is presented, including the testimony of one or more qualified expert witnesses, demonstrating that the child's continued custody by the child's parent or Indian custodian is likely to result in serious emotional or physical damage to the child.
(b) The court must not order a termination of parental rights for an Indian child unless evidence beyond a reasonable doubt is presented, including the testimony of one or more qualified expert witnesses, demonstrating that the child's continued custody by the child's parent or Indian custodian is likely to result in serious emotional or physical damage to the child.
(c) For a foster-care placement or termination of parental rights, the evidence must show a causal relationship between the particular conditions in the home and the likelihood that continued custody of the child will result in serious emotional or physical damage to the particular child who is the subject of the child-custody proceeding.
(d) Without a causal relationship identified in paragraph (c) of this section, evidence that shows only the existence of community or family poverty, isolation, single parenthood, custodian age, crowded or inadequate housing, substance abuse, or nonconforming social behavior does not by itself constitute clear and convincing evidence or evidence beyond a reasonable doubt that continued custody is likely to result in serious emotional or physical damage to the child.
§ 23.122
Who may serve as a qualified expert witness?
(a) A qualified expert witness must be qualified to testify regarding whether the child's continued custody by the parent or Indian custodian is likely to result in serious emotional or physical damage to the child and should be qualified to testify as to the prevailing social and cultural standards of the Indian child's Tribe. A person may be designated by the Indian child's Tribe as being qualified to testify to the prevailing social and cultural standards of the Indian child's Tribe.
(b) The court or any party may request the assistance of the Indian child's Tribe or the BIA office serving the Indian child's Tribe in locating persons qualified to serve as expert witnesses.
(c) The social worker regularly assigned to the Indian child may not serve as a qualified expert witness in child-custody proceedings concerning the child.
§ 23.123
[Reserved]

# Voluntary Proceedings
§ 23.124
What actions must a State court undertake in voluntary proceedings?
(a) The State court must require the participants in a voluntary proceeding to state on the record whether the child is an Indian child, or whether there is reason to believe the child is an Indian child, as provided in § 23.107.
(b) If there is reason to believe the child is an Indian child, the State court must ensure that the party seeking placement has taken all reasonable steps to verify the child's status. This may include contacting the Tribe of which it is believed the child is a member (or eligible for membership and of which the biological parent is a member) to verify the child's status. As described in § 23.107, where a consenting parent requests anonymity, a Tribe receiving such information must keep relevant documents and information confidential.
(c) State courts must ensure that the placement for the Indian child complies with §§ 23.129-23.132.
§ 23.125
How is consent obtained?
(a) A parent's or Indian custodian's consent to a voluntary termination of parental rights or to a foster-care, preadoptive, or adoptive placement must be executed in writing and recorded before a court of competent jurisdiction.
(b) Prior to accepting the consent, the court must explain to the parent or Indian custodian:
(1) The terms and consequences of the consent in detail; and
(2) The following limitations, applicable to the type of child-custody proceeding for which consent is given, on withdrawal of consent:
(i) For consent to foster-care placement, the parent or Indian custodian may withdraw consent for any reason, at any time, and have the child returned; or
(ii) For consent to termination of parental rights, the parent or Indian custodian may withdraw consent for any reason, at any time prior to the entry of the final decree of termination and have the child returned; or
(iii) For consent to an adoptive placement, the parent or Indian custodian may withdraw consent for any reason, at any time prior to the entry of the final decree of adoption, and have the child returned.
(c) The court must certify that the terms and consequences of the consent were explained on the record in detail in English (or the language of the parent or Indian custodian, if English is not the primary language) and were fully understood by the parent or Indian custodian.
(d) Where confidentiality is requested or indicated, execution of consent need not be made in a session of court open to the public but still must be made before a court of competent jurisdiction in compliance with this section.
(e) A consent given prior to, or within 10 days after, the birth of an Indian child is not valid.
§ 23.126
What information must a consent document contain?
(a) If there are any conditions to the consent, the written consent must clearly set out the conditions.
(b) A written consent to foster-care placement should contain, in addition to the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the name and birthdate of the Indian child; the name of the Indian child's Tribe; the Tribal enrollment number for the parent and for the Indian child, where known, or some other indication of the child's membership in the Tribe; the name, address, and other identifying information of the consenting parent or Indian custodian; the name and address of the person or entity, if any, who arranged the placement; and the name and address of the prospective foster parents, if known at the time.
§ 23.127
How is withdrawal of consent to a foster-care placement achieved?
(a) The parent or Indian custodian may withdraw consent to voluntary foster-care placement at any time.
(b) To withdraw consent, the parent or Indian custodian must file a written document with the court or otherwise testify before the court. Additional methods of withdrawing consent may be available under State law.
(c) When a parent or Indian custodian withdraws consent to a voluntary foster-care placement, the court must ensure that the Indian child is returned to that parent or Indian custodian as soon as practicable.
§ 23.128
How is withdrawal of consent to a termination of parental rights or adoption achieved?
(a) A parent may withdraw consent to voluntary termination of parental rights at any time prior to the entry of a final decree of termination.
(b) A parent or Indian custodian may withdraw consent to voluntary adoption at any time prior to the entry of a final decree of adoption.
(c) To withdraw consent prior to the entry of a final decree of adoption, the parent or Indian custodian must file a written document with the court or otherwise testify before the court. Additional methods of withdrawing consent may be available under State law.
(d) The court in which the withdrawal of consent is filed must promptly notify the person or entity who arranged any voluntary preadoptive or adoptive placement of such filing, and the Indian child must be returned to the parent or Indian custodian as soon as practicable.

# Dispositions
§ 23.129
When do the placement preferences apply?
(a) In any preadoptive, adoptive, or foster-care placement of an Indian child, the placement preferences specified in § 23.130 and § 23.131 apply.
(b) Where a consenting parent requests anonymity in a voluntary proceeding, the court must give weight to the request in applying the preferences.
(c) The placement preferences must be applied in any foster-care, preadoptive, or adoptive placement unless there is a determination on the record that good cause under § 23.132 exists to not apply those placement preferences.
§ 23.130
What placement preferences apply in adoptive placements?
(a) In any adoptive placement of an Indian child under State law, where the Indian child's Tribe has not established a different order of preference under paragraph (b) of this section, preference must be given in descending order, as listed below, to placement of the child with:
(1) A member of the Indian child's extended family;
(2) Other members of the Indian child's Tribe; or
(3) Other Indian families.
(b) If the Indian child's Tribe has established by resolution a different order of preference than that specified in ICWA, the Tribe's placement preferences apply.
(c) The court must, where appropriate, also consider the placement preference of the Indian child or Indian child's parent.
§ 23.131
What placement preferences apply in foster-care or preadoptive placements?
(a) In any foster-care or preadoptive placement of an Indian child under State law, including changes in foster-care or preadoptive placements, the child must be placed in the least-restrictive setting that:
(1) Most approximates a family, taking into consideration sibling attachment;
(2) Allows the Indian child's special needs (if any) to be met; and
(3) Is in reasonable proximity to the Indian child's home, extended family, or siblings.
(b) In any foster-care or preadoptive placement of an Indian child under State law, where the Indian child's Tribe has not established a different order of preference under paragraph (c) of this section, preference must be given, in descending order as listed below, to placement of the child with:
(1) A member of the Indian child's extended family;
(2) A foster home that is licensed, approved, or specified by the Indian child's Tribe;
(3) An Indian foster home licensed or approved by an authorized non-Indian licensing authority; or
(4) An institution for children approved by an Indian Tribe or operated by an Indian organization which has a program suitable to meet the child's needs.
(c) If the Indian child's Tribe has established by resolution a different order of preference than that specified in ICWA, the Tribe's placement preferences apply, so long as the placement is the least-restrictive setting appropriate to the particular needs of the Indian child, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) The court must, where appropriate, also consider the preference of the Indian child or the Indian child's parent.
§ 23.132
How is a determination of “good cause” to depart from the placement preferences made?
(a) If any party asserts that good cause not to follow the placement preferences exists, the reasons for that belief or assertion must be stated orally on the record or provided in writing to the parties to the child-custody proceeding and the court.
(b) The party seeking departure from the placement preferences should bear the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that there is “good cause” to depart from the placement preferences.
(c) A court's determination of good cause to depart from the placement preferences must be made on the record or in writing and should be based on one or more of the following considerations:
(1) The request of one or both of the Indian child's parents, if they attest that they have reviewed the placement options, if any, that comply with the order of preference;
(2) The request of the child, if the child is of sufficient age and capacity
to understand the decision that is being made;
(3) The presence of a sibling attachment that can be maintained only through a particular placement;
(4) The extraordinary physical, mental, or emotional needs of the Indian child, such as specialized treatment services that may be unavailable in the community where families who meet the placement preferences live;
(5) The unavailability of a suitable placement after a determination by the court that a diligent search was conducted to find suitable placements meeting the preference criteria, but none has been located. For purposes of this analysis, the standards for determining whether a placement is unavailable must conform to the prevailing social and cultural standards of the Indian community in which the Indian child's parent or extended family resides or with which the Indian child's parent or extended family members maintain social and cultural ties.
(d) A placement may not depart from the preferences based on the socioeconomic status of any placement relative to another placement.
(e) A placement may not depart from the preferences based solely on ordinary bonding or attachment that flowed from time spent in a non-preferred placement that was made in violation of ICWA.

# Access
§ 23.133
Should courts allow participation by alternative methods?
If it possesses the capability, the court should allow alternative methods of participation in State-court child-custody proceedings involving an Indian child, such as participation by telephone, videoconferencing, or other methods.
§ 23.134
Who has access to reports and records during a proceeding?
Each party to an emergency proceeding or a foster-care-placement or termination-of-parental-rights proceeding under State law involving an Indian child has a right to timely examine all reports and other documents filed or lodged with the court upon which any decision with respect to such action may be based.
§ 23.135
[Reserved]

# Post-Trial Rights

# Responsibilities
§ 23.136
What are the requirements for vacating an adoption based on consent having been obtained through fraud or duress?
(a) Within two years after a final decree of adoption of any Indian child by a State court, or within any longer period of time permitted by the law of the State, the State court may invalidate the voluntary adoption upon finding that the parent's consent was obtained by fraud or duress.
(b) Upon the parent's filing of a petition to vacate the final decree of adoption of the parent's Indian child, the court must give notice to all parties to the adoption proceedings and the Indian child's Tribe and must hold a hearing on the petition.
(c) Where the court finds that the parent's consent was obtained through fraud or duress, the court must vacate the final decree of adoption, order the consent revoked, and order that the child be returned to the parent.
§ 23.137
Who can petition to invalidate an action for certain ICWA violations?
(a) Any of the following may petition any court of competent jurisdiction to invalidate an action for foster-care placement or termination of parental rights under state law where it is alleged that 25 U.S.C. 1911, 1912, or 1913 has been violated:
(1) An Indian child who is or was the subject of any action for foster-care placement or termination of parental rights;
(2) A parent or Indian custodian from whose custody such child was removed; and
(3) The Indian child's Tribe.
(b) Upon a showing that an action for foster-care placement or termination of parental rights violated any provision of 25 U.S.C. 1911, 1912, or 1913, the court must determine whether it is appropriate to invalidate the action.
(c) To petition for invalidation, there is no requirement that the petitioner's
rights under ICWA were violated; rather, a petitioner may challenge the action based on any violations of 25 U.S.C. 1911, 1912, or 1913 during the course of the child-custody proceeding.
§ 23.138
What are the rights to information about adoptees' Tribal affiliations?
Upon application by an Indian who has reached age 18 who was the subject of an adoptive placement, the court that entered the final decree of adoption must inform such individual of the Tribal affiliations, if any, of the individual's biological parents and provide such other information necessary to protect any rights, which may include Tribal membership, resulting from the individual's Tribal relationship.
§ 23.139
Must notice be given of a change in an adopted Indian child's status?
(a) If an Indian child has been adopted, the court must notify, by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested, the child's biological parent or prior Indian custodian and the Indian child's Tribe whenever:
(1) A final decree of adoption of the Indian child has been vacated or set aside; or
(2) The adoptive parent has voluntarily consented to the termination of his or her parental rights to the child.
(b) The notice must state the current name, and any former name, of the Indian child, inform the recipient of the right to petition for return of custody of the child, and provide sufficient information to allow the recipient to participate in any scheduled hearings.
(c) A parent or Indian custodian may waive his or her right to such notice by executing a written waiver of notice and filing the waiver with the court.
(1) Prior to accepting the waiver, the court must explain the consequences of the waiver and explain how the waiver may be revoked.
(2) The court must certify that the terms and consequences of the waiver and how the waiver may be revoked were explained in detail in English (or the language of the parent or Indian custodian, if English is not the primary language), and were fully understood by the parent or Indian custodian.
(3) Where confidentiality is requested or indicated, execution of the waiver need not be made in a session of court open to the public but still must be made before a court of competent jurisdiction in compliance with this section.
(4) The biological parent or Indian custodian may revoke the waiver at any time by filing with the court a written notice of revocation.
(5) A revocation of the right to receive notice does not affect any child-custody proceeding that was completed before the filing of the notice of revocation.

# Recordkeeping
§ 23.140
What information must States furnish to the Bureau of Indian Affairs?
(a) Any State court entering a final adoption decree or order in any voluntary or involuntary Indian-child adoptive placement must furnish a copy of the decree or order within 30 days to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Chief, Division of Human Services, 1849 C Street NW, Mail Stop 3645 MIB, Washington, DC 20240, along with the following information, in an envelope marked “Confidential”:
(1) Birth name and birthdate of the Indian child, and Tribal affiliation and name of the Indian child after adoption;
(2) Names and addresses of the biological parents;
(3) Names and addresses of the adoptive parents;
(4) Name and contact information for any agency having files or information relating to the adoption;
(5) Any affidavit signed by the biological parent or parents asking that their identity remain confidential; and
(6) Any information relating to Tribal membership or eligibility for Tribal membership of the adopted child.
(b) If a State agency has been designated as the repository for all State-court adoption information and is fulfilling the duties described in paragraph (a) of this section, the State courts in that State need not fulfill those same duties.
[59 FR 2256, Jan. 13, 1994, as amended at 83 FR 55268, Nov. 5, 2018]
§ 23.141
What records must the State maintain?
(a) The State must maintain a record of every voluntary or involuntary foster-care, preadoptive, and adoptive placement of an Indian child and make the record available within 14 days of a request by an Indian child's Tribe or the Secretary.
(b) The record must contain, at a minimum, the petition or complaint, all substantive orders entered in the child-custody proceeding, the complete record of the placement determination (including, but not limited to, the findings in the court record and the social worker's statement), and, if the placement departs from the placement preferences, detailed documentation of the efforts to comply with the placement preferences.
(c) A State agency or agencies may be designated to be the repository for this information. The State court or agency should notify the BIA whether these records are maintained within the court system or by a State agency.
§ 23.142
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this subpart?
The collections of information contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-0186. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless the form or regulation requesting the information displays a currently valid OMB Control Number. Send comments regarding this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Information Collection Clearance Officer—Indian Affairs, 1849 C Street NW., Washington, DC 20240.

# Effective Date
§ 23.143
How does this subpart apply to pending proceedings?
None of the provisions of this subpart affects a proceeding under State law for foster-care placement, termination of parental rights, preadoptive placement, or adoptive placement that was initiated prior to December 12, 2016, but the provisions of this subpart apply to any subsequent proceeding in the same matter or subsequent proceedings affecting the custody or placement of the same child.

# Severability
§ 23.144
What happens if some portion of this part is held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction?
If any portion of this part is determined to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the other portions of the part remain in effect. For example, the Department has considered separately whether the provisions of this part apply to involuntary and voluntary proceedings; thus, if a particular provision is held to be invalid as to one type of proceeding, it is the Department's intent that it remains valid as to the other type of proceeding.
Pt. 26

# PART 26—JOB PLACEMENT AND TRAINING PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Applicability
Sec.
26.1
What terms do I need to know?
26.2
Who authorizes this collection of information?
26.3
What is the purpose of the Job Placement and Training Program?
26.4
Who administers the Job Placement and Training Program?
26.5
Who may be eligible for Job Placement and Training?
26.6
Who is eligible to receive financial assistance?
26.7
How is financial need established?
26.8
Where do I go to apply for Job Placement and Training assistance?
26.9
How do I apply for assistance?
26.10
When will I find out if I have been selected for Job Placement and Training assistance?
26.11
What type of Job Placement and Training assistance may be approved?
26.12
Who provides the Job Placement and Training?
26.13
How long may I be in training and how long can I receive other assistance?
26.14
What or who is a service provider?
26.15
What makes an applicant eligible for Job Placement and Training services?
26.16
If I am awarded financial assistance, how much will I receive?
26.17
Can more than one family member be financially assisted at the same time?
26.18
What kinds of supportive services are available?
26.19
Will I be required to contribute financially to my employment and training goals?
26.20
Can I be required to return portions of my grant?
26.21
Can this program be combined with other similar programs for maximum benefit?
26.22
May a tribe integrate Job Placement and Training funds into its Public Law 102-477 Plan?
26.23
What is an Individual Self-Sufficiency Plan (ISP)?

# Subpart B—Job Placement Services
26.24
What is the scope of the Job Placement Program?
26.25
What constitutes a complete Job Placement Program application?
26.26
What job placement services may I receive?
26.27
What kind of job placement support services can I expect?
26.28
What follow-up services are available after I become employed?

# Subpart C—Training Services
26.29
What is the scope of the Job Training Program?
26.30
Does the Job Training Program provide part-time training or short-term training?
26.31
May I repeat my job training?
26.32
What constitutes a complete Job Training Program application?
26.33
How do I show that I need job training?
26.34
What type of job training assistance may be approved?
26.35
What kind of support services are available to me?
26.36
What follow-up service is available after I complete training?
26.37
Are there training standards that I must follow?

# Subpart D—Appeal by an Applicant
26.38
May I appeal a decision about my application?

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 13; Sec. 1, Public Law 84-959, 70 Stat. 966 as amended by Public Law 88-230, 77 Stat. 471 (25 U.S.C. 309)

# Source:
74 FR 41331, Aug. 17, 2009, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Applicability
§ 26.1
What terms do I need to know?
As used in this part:
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA).
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Gainful Employment
means work resulting in self-sufficiency.
Indian
means any person who is a member of a federally recognized tribe, including Alaska Natives.
Individual Self-Sufficiency Plan (ISP)
means a written plan designed to meet the goal of employment through specific actions that meet the needs of the individual. The plan is jointly developed and is signed by both the applicant and the servicing office. The ISP addresses the client's barriers to employment and a plan of action to address barriers.
Must
means a mandatory act or requirement.
On or Near Reservation
means those areas or communities adjacent or contiguous to reservations, or service areas where Job Training and Placement programs are provided upon approval of the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs or his designated representative. For purposes of this program and services, Alaska is included in this definition.
On-the-Job-Training (OJT)
means a written agreement for an employer to provide training to a participant who engages in productive work that provides knowledge or skills essential to the full and adequate performance of the job. The employer receives reimbursement from the Job Training Program for the wage rate of the participant. OJT may be used to meet the goal(s) in the participant's ISP, as long as it does not exceed 24 months.
Permanent Employment
means a year-round job or one that re-occurs seasonally, lasting at least 90 days per work season.
Service Area
means a location agreed to by the tribe with the Bureau to provide Job Training and Placement Services.
Servicing Office
means the Bureau office or the office of the tribal service provider that administers the Job Training and Placement Program.
Tribal Governing Body
means the recognized entity empowered to exercise governmental authority over a federally recognized tribe.
Tribal Service Provider
means a tribe or tribal organization that administers
the Job Training and Placement Program pursuant to Public Law 93-638 or Public Law 102-477.
Tribe
means any tribal entity listed in the
Federal Register
notice that the Secretary of the Interior publishes under Public Law 103-454, 108 Stat. 4791.
Underemployed
means an individual who is working but whose income is insufficient to meet essential needs.
Unemployed
means an individual who is not currently working or employed.
Unmet need
means the difference between available resources and the cost associated with finding gainful employment.
Vocational Training
means technical training that leads to permanent and gainful employment.
We
,
us
, or
our
means the Secretary of the Interior, or an official in the Office of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, or an official in the Bureau of Indian Affairs to whom the Secretary has delegated authority.
§ 26.2
Who authorizes this collection of information?
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. 3507(d), and assigned OMB clearance number 1076-0062. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to a collection of information unless the form or regulation requesting the information has a currently valid OMB Control Number.
§ 26.3
What is the purpose of the Job Placement and Training Program?
The purpose of the Job Placement and Training Program is to assist eligible applicants to obtain job skills and to find and retain a job leading to self-sufficiency.
§ 26.4
Who administers the Job Placement and Training Program?
The Job Placement and Training Program is administered by the Bureau of Indian Affairs or a tribal service provider. Tribes are encouraged to provide services directly to Indians by either entering into a Public Law 93-638 contract with the Bureau or a compact with the Office of Self—Governance. Tribes may also consolidate Job Placement and Training Program funds in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Employment, Training, and Related Services Demonstration Act of 1992, Public Law 102-477.
§ 26.5
Who may be eligible for Job Placement and Training?
You may apply for assistance for employment or training if all of the following criteria are met:
(a) You meet the definition of Indian in § 26.1; and
(b) You are residing on or near an Indian reservation or in a service area, or in the agreed contract service area; and
(c) You are unemployed or underemployed or need and can benefit from employment assistance as determined by your servicing office; and
(d) You complete an ISP.
§ 26.6
Who is eligible to receive financial assistance?
Financial assistance is only available to persons:
(a) Approved for training that will lead to permanent, gainful and meaningful employment; or
(b) Who have obtained a job and need financial assistance to retain the job, as determined by the servicing office.
§ 26.7
How is financial need established?
You must show that current income and other available resources are not sufficient to meet employment or training goals.
§ 26.8
Where do I go to apply for Job Placement and Training assistance?
You may apply for Job Placement and Training assistance at the servicing office nearest to your current residence.
§ 26.9
How do I apply for assistance?
(a) You should contact the BIA office or the tribal service provider which is nearest to your current residence to get an application form;
(b) You must complete the application process as established by your servicing office; and
(c) You must complete and sign a comprehensive ISP (or an individual
development plan (IDP) or employment development plan (EDP), which are synonymous with an ISP).
§ 26.10
When will I find out if I have been selected for Job Placement and Training assistance?
(a) Your servicing office will notify you in writing within 30 calendar days once it receives a completed job training application request; or
(b) Your servicing office will notify you within 5 business days once it has received a completed Job Placement application and written job offer.
§ 26.11
What type of Job Placement and Training assistance may be approved?
Services provided may include funding for employment, training or supplemental assistance that supports job placement or training activities (see subpart B of this part for Job Placement or subpart C of this part for Training Services).
§ 26.12
Who provides the Job Placement and Training?
The Bureau or a tribal service provider may enter into contracts or agreements to provide facilities and services required for vocational training programs with:
(a) Indian tribal governing bodies or, when approved by the tribal service provider, other provider of meaningful training programs not currently operated by the tribe;
(b) Appropriate Federal, State, or local government agencies;
(c) Public or private schools with a recognized reputation in vocational education and successfully obtaining employment for graduates;
(d) Education firms that operate residential training centers; and
(e) Corporations and associations or small business establishments with apprenticeship or on-the-job training (OJT) programs leading to skilled employment.
§ 26.13
How long may I be in training and how long can I receive other assistance?
(a) Your training at any approved institution, apprenticeship, and/or OJT must not exceed 24 months of full-time actual training hours.
(b) Registered nurse training must not exceed 36 months of full actual training hours.
(c) You may receive other financial assistance under this program determined by your ISP that you have developed with your tribal service provider.
§ 26.14
What or who is a service provider?
A service provider is an administrative unit of a BIA Regional Office, a BIA Agency Office, a BIA Field Office, a Tribal contracted office, or Alaska Native federally recognized tribe, or a tribal organization, that provides grants to help offset the cost of vocational or technical training (at approved places), or immediate job placement services. To the extent resources will allow, other kinds of support service may also be available.
§ 26.15
What makes an applicant eligible for Job Placement and Training services?
You are eligible for services if:
(a) You meet the definition of an American Indian or Alaska Native; and
(b) Either:
(1) You can demonstrate an unmet need and show a need for job training or placement services in order to become gainfully and meaningfully employed; or
(2) You are skilled, but need financial assistance to get to a job, and you show an aptitude and potential to benefit from services.
§ 26.16
If I am awarded financial assistance, how much will I receive?
(a) The amount of financial assistance you receive depends on your unmet needs. If applicable, you should apply for:
(1) A Pell Grant if your training institution offers this grant; and
(2) Other education grants or loans for which you may qualify.
(b) The Bureau or tribal service provider will award financial assistance up to the level of your unmet need to the extent resources are available. It is possible that the combination of available financial assistance will not equal your financial need.
§ 26.17
Can more than one family member be financially assisted at the same time?
Yes, more than one family member can be assisted, providing that each applicant is eligible.
§ 26.18
What kinds of supportive services are available?
The BIA or tribal service provider may provide, but is not limited to, the following supportive services:
(a) Assistance in completing an application and the provision of supporting documents;
(b) A description of the Job Placement and Training Program and related services;
(c) An assessment of eligibility;
(d) An assessment of need for employment services (or a combination of training and employment services);
(e) The creation of an ISP (which may include training and other support services);
(f) Counseling services that address cultural differences and strengthen probability of client success;
(g) Referral to other appropriate services;
(h) Youth work experience;
(i) Tools for employment;
(j) Initial union dues;
(k) Transportation of household effects;
(l) Security and safety deposits;
(m) Items to improve personal appearance such as professional work clothing;
(n) If required, kitchen and other household effects including bedding and appliances; and
(o) Childcare.
§ 26.19
Will I be required to contribute financially to my employment and training goals?
Yes, the Job Placement and Training Program clients are required to seek other funding, including the use of personal resources as a condition of their ISP.
§ 26.20
Can I be required to return portions of my grant?
Yes, grants are awarded for a specific purpose as described in the applicant's ISP. If the funds cannot be spent according to the ISP, the unused portion must be returned to the service provider's job placement and training budget.
§ 26.21
Can this program be combined with other similar programs for maximum benefit?
Yes, combining this program with other programs is encouraged, to the extent that laws governing program services permit partnering with similar programs and resources.
§ 26.22
May a tribe integrate Job Placement and Training funds into its Public Law 102-477 Plan?
Yes, Indian tribes may integrate Job Placement and Training Program funds into their Public Law 102-477 Plan.
§ 26.23
What is an Individual Self-Sufficiency Plan (ISP)?
(a) An ISP is a document that:
(1) Spells out the details necessary for a person to assume a meaningful job (usually within a reasonable period of time);
(2) Supplements the application process and includes needed finances, special clothing, transportation, and support services necessary for employment;
(3) Identifies all financial resources and defines the employment or training objective and activities planned to reach the objective; and
(4) Outlines how the applicant will participate in job placement, where resources will allow.
(b) The employer's job information and offer should be attached to the ISP, which becomes a part of the application (and supporting documents).
(c) The ISP must indicate that the services received will meet the individual's and tribal goals.
(d) Only one comprehensive ISP can be in effect for each applicant at one time. The comprehensive ISP should be coordinated and integrated with other programs offered by the servicing agency.

# Subpart B—Job Placement Services
§ 26.24
What is the scope of the Job Placement Program?
The Job Placement Program assists Indian people who have job skills to obtain and retain gainful employment leading to self-sufficiency.
§ 26.25
What constitutes a complete Job Placement Program application?
To be complete, a Job Placement Program application must contain all of the items required by this section.
(a) An application signed by the applicant and servicing office representative.
(b) An ISP, including a list of goods and services needed to get the applicant to the job, signed by the applicant and servicing representative.
(c) An accepted official document that shows the formal relationship between the applicant and a federally recognized tribe or a document that shows an applicant's eligibility for services.
(d) A statement by the service provider that the applicant has been declared eligible for services.
(e) A financial statement that reflects the applicant's unmet need.
(f) An employer certification that the applicant has been hired. The certification must include, at a minimum:
(1) Job title;
(2) Beginning date;
(3) Beginning wage;
(4) Date first full paycheck will be issued; and
(5) Expected duration of the job.
§ 26.26
What Job Placement services may I receive?
As determined by the service provider, you may receive transportation to work for a limited period, funds to finalize your job resume, and job placement assistance.
§ 26.27
What kind of Job Placement support services can I expect?
Service office representatives will make the determination of what support services are necessary and to be funded. Examples of job placement support services include, but are not limited to resume preparation, interview techniques, job retention, and related living skills.
§ 26.28
What follow-up services are available after I become employed?
As determined by the service provider, the following type of services may be available: Temporary housing, transportation to work for a limited period of time, work clothing, and childcare.

# Subpart C—Training Services
§ 26.29
What is the scope of the Job Training Program?
A service provider may offer career counseling, assessment, recommend training institutions that properly prepare applicants for entry into their career field, and help prepare applicants for gainful employment to the extent program funding will allow and based on applicants' established need.
§ 26.30
Does the Job Training Program provide part-time training or short-term training?
Yes, part-time and short-term training are allowable provided the training assists individuals to develop skills necessary to acquire gainful employment, in accordance with the ISP, and depending upon availability of resources. Part-time means no less than six credit units per semester (based on a nine-month school year).
§ 26.31
May I repeat my training?
Eligibility for repeat training and other financial assistance will be determined by your tribal service provider.
§ 26.32
What constitutes a complete Job Training Program application?
A request for training includes:
(a) Intake and application data;
(b) Feasible, comprehensive ISP;
(c) Tribal affiliation document;
(d) Selective Service registration;
(e) Selected place of training;
(f) Statement of financial need;
(g) Statement of eligibility; and
(h) Applicant assessment or other documents as required by the servicing agency.
§ 26.33
How do I show I need job training?
The need for Job Placement and Training is shown by completing an application for training that demonstrates financial need.
§ 26.34
What type of job training assistance may be approved?
The following types of training that lead to gainful employment may be approved:
(a) Nationally accredited vocational training;
(b) Training and non-accredited vocational courses provided by a tribe;
(c) Training programs not operated by the tribe but approved by the service provider;
(d) Apprenticeship training supervised by a State apprenticeship agency or council or by the Federal Apprenticeship Training Service that is provided by a corporation or association that has been training bona fide apprentices for at least one year or any other apprenticeship program approved by the service provider; or
(e) OJT offered by a public or private business.
§ 26.35
What kind of support services are available to me?
As determined by the service provider, training support services include, but are not limited to, stipends, transportation, and childcare.
§ 26.36
What follow-up service is available after I complete training?
Job Placement assistance may follow training.
§ 26.37
Are there training standards that I must follow?
Yes, students must maintain the minimum academic requirements and be in good standing as set forth by the training institute. If an applicant is separated from training for good cause, the applicant may be responsible for repaying any portion of misused funds.

# Subpart D—Appeal by an Applicant
§ 26.38
May I appeal a decision about my application?
If the servicing agency denies your application you may appeal under part 2 of this chapter by sending your appeal to your service provider. If your servicing agency is a tribal contractor, you should file your appeal with the tribal contractor under their established procedure. The letter informing you of the decision on your application will include information on how to appeal.

# SUBCHAPTER E—EDUCATION
Pt. 30

# PART 30—STANDARDS, ASSESSMENTS, AND ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM
Sec.
30.100
What is the purpose of this part?
30.101
What definitions apply to terms in this part?

# Subpart A—Standards, Assessments, and Accountability System Requirements
30.102
What does the Act require of the Secretary?
30.103
How will the Secretary implement Standards, Assessments and Accountability System requirements?
30.104
How will the Secretary implement requirements for standards?
30.105
How will the Secretary implement requirements for academic content assessments?
30.106
How will the Secretary provide for the inclusion of all students in assessments?
30.107
How will the Secretary include students with disabilities in assessments?
30.108
How will the Secretary provide for alternate assessments for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities?
30.109
How will the Secretary include English learners in academic content assessments?
30.110
How will the Secretary ensure BIE-funded schools will provide for annual assessments of English language proficiency for English learners?
30.111
How will the Secretary implement requirements for an accountability system?

# Subpart B—Accountability, Waiver of Requirements, Technical Assistance, and Approval of Proposals for Alternative Requirements
30.112
May a tribal governing body or school board waive the Secretary's requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system?
30.113
How does a tribal governing body or school board waive the Secretary's requirements?
30.114
What should a tribal governing body or school board include in a proposal for alternative requirements?
30.115
May proposed alternative requirements use parts of the Secretary's requirements?
30.116
Will the Secretary provide technical assistance to tribal governing bodies or school boards seeking to develop alternative requirements?
30.117
What is the process for requesting technical assistance?
30.118
When should the tribal governing body or school board request technical assistance?
30.119
How does the Secretary review and approve alternative requirements?

# Subpart C—Support and Improvement
30.120
How will the Secretary notify BIE-funded schools that they have been identified for school support and improvement activities?
30.121
How will the Secretary implement requirements for comprehensive support and improvement activities?
30.122
How will the Secretary implement requirements for targeted support and improvement activities?
30.123
How will the Secretary implement requirements to identify schools for additional targeted support?
30.124
How will the Secretary implement continued support for Bureau-funded schools and school improvement?

# Subpart D—Responsibilities and Accountability
30.125
What is required for the Bureau to meet its reporting responsibilities?
30.126
What information collections have been approved?

# Authority:
Pub. L. 114-94, 129 Stat. 1312, 20 U.S.C. 6311
et. seq.;
20 U.S.C. 7824(c).

# Source:
85 FR 17020, Mar. 26, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 30.100
What is the purpose of this part?
(a) This part establishes regulations regarding standards, assessments, and an accountability system at BIE-funded schools consistent with section 1111 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. The Act requires the Secretary to develop or implement requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system for BIE-funded schools.
(b) Nothing in this part may be construed to affect, modify, or diminish the sovereign rights of Indian Tribes; statutory rights under law, including the right to use Native American languages as a medium of instruction as
described in the
Native American Languages Act,
Public Law 101-477; the Secretary's trust responsibility for Indian education; nor the trust responsibility of the United States to Indian Tribes or individual Indians. In carrying out the education mission of the Department, the BIE has an obligation to provide for a comprehensive multicultural and multilingual education program including the production and use of instructional materials, culturally appropriate methodologies and teaching and learning strategies that will reinforce, preserve, and maintain Indian and Alaska Native languages, cultures, and histories which school boards, Tribes and Alaska Native entities may utilize at their discretion.
(c) In carrying out activities under this part, the Secretary will be guided by the policies stated in 25 CFR part 32.
§ 30.101
What definitions apply to terms in this part?
Act
means the
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965,
as amended by the
Every Student Succeeds Act,
Public Law 114-95, enacted December 10, 2015.
Agency Plan
means a BIE document that will provide Indian Tribes, parents, and stakeholders with quality, transparent information about how standards, assessments, and an accountability system will be implemented at a BIE-funded school.
BIE-funded school(s)
means a school funded by the Bureau of Indian Education and includes Bureau-operated schools and tribally controlled schools.
Bureau
or
BIE
means the Bureau of Indian Education.
Bureau-operated school
means a school operated by the Bureau of Indian Education.
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Indian Education.
English learner
means an individual:
(1) Who is aged three (3) through twenty-one (21);
(2) Who is enrolled or preparing to enroll in an elementary school or secondary school;
(3)(i) Who was not born in the United States or whose native language is a language other than English;
(ii)(A) Who is a Native American or Alaska Native, or a native resident of the outlying areas; and
(B) Who comes from an environment where a language other than English has had a significant impact on the individual's level of English language proficiency; or
(iii) Who is migratory, whose native language is a language other than English, and who comes from an environment where a language other than English is dominant; and
(4) Whose difficulties in speaking, reading, writing, or understanding the English language may be sufficient to deny the individual;
(i) The ability to meet the challenging academic standards;
(ii) The ability to successfully achieve in classrooms where the language of instruction is English; or
(iii) The opportunity to participate fully in society.
(5) This definition is not intended to affect the right to use Native American language as a medium of instruction.
Foster care
means 24-hour substitute care for children placed away from their parents and for whom the agency under title IV-E of the Social Security Act has placement and care responsibility. This includes, but is not limited to, placements in foster family homes, foster homes of relatives, group homes, emergency shelters, residential facilities, child care institutions, and pre-adoptive homes. A child is in foster care in accordance with this definition regardless of whether the foster care facility is licensed and payments are made by the State, tribal, or local agency for the care of the child, whether adoption subsidy payments are being made prior to the finalization of an adoption, or whether there is Federal matching of any payments that are made.
Native American language
means the historical, traditional languages spoken by members of federally recognized Indian Tribes, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2021(20).
Peer review
means, for purposes of this part, the process through which an entity demonstrates the technical soundness of an assessment system, including its validity and reliability for
the purposes for which the assessments are intended.
Proposal for alternative requirements
means a proposal submitted by a tribal governing body or school board for requirements, in whole or in part, alternative to the ones adopted by the Secretary for standards, assessments, or an accountability system at BIE-funded schools except that an alternative proposal for a Bureau-operated school does not include any actions that would affect BIE's authority over inherently Federal functions as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2021(12).
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a designated representative.
School board
means, with respect to waiver and submission of alternative proposals for a BIE-funded school, either an “agency school board' as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2021(1), or a “local school board” as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2021(14).
School year
means the academic school year as described by a school in the BIE's student information system.
Subgroup of students
means:
(1) Economically disadvantaged students;
(2) Students from major racial and ethnic groups;
(3) Children with disabilities; and
(4) English learners.
Technical assistance
means with regard to:
(1) Comprehensive or targeted support and improvement or additional targeted support, subject to the availability of appropriations, assistance from the BIE to address issues impacting a school's or one or more subgroups within a school's ability to meet the BIE's academic goals and indicators developed or implemented in accordance with this part, including assistance to extend technical capabilities and training opportunities;
(2) Proposals for alternative requirements, technical assistance means, subject to the availability of appropriations, assistance from the BIE and the Department of Education in the development of alternative requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system in part or in whole, including assistance in understanding what options may be available to enhance the exercise of sovereignty in education and address the unique circumstances and needs of BIE-funded schools and the students served at such schools.
(3) English language proficiency assessments and alternate English language proficiency assessments, assistance including training teachers on how to administer such assessments.
Tribal consultation
means consultation conducted in accordance with the tribal consultation policy of the Department of the Interior.
Tribal governing body
means with respect to waiver and submission of alternative proposals for:
(1) Tribally controlled schools, the entity authorized under applicable tribal law to waive the Secretary's requirements and propose alternative requirements; and
(2) A BIE-operated school, the recognized governing body of the Indian Tribe involved that represents at least ninety (90) percent of the students served by such school.
Tribally controlled school
means, for the purposes of this part, a school operated under a Public Law 93-638 contract or Public Law 100-297 grant that is:
(1) Operated by an Indian Tribe or a tribal organization, enrolling students in Kindergarten through grade twelve (12) of schools that may have varying structure, including a preschool;
(2) Not a local education agency as defined in 25 U.S.C. 2511(5); and
(3) Not directly administered by the Bureau of Indian Education.
Waiver
means the exercise of authority by a tribal governing body or school board for a BIE-funded school to elect to implement requirements, in part or in whole, alternative to the ones adopted by the Secretary pursuant to this part at schools that are under the tribal governing body's or school board's jurisdiction following approval of the proposal for alternative requirements by the Secretary and the Secretary of Education pursuant to section 8204 of the Act, except that a tribal governing body's decision to exercise waiver authority under this part takes priority over a school board decision to exercise waiver authority under this part.

# Subpart A—Standards, Assessments, and Accountability System Requirements
§ 30.102
What does the Act require of the Secretary?
(a) The Act requires the Secretary to define standards, assessments, and accountability system, consistent with section 1111 of the Act, for schools on a national, regional, or tribal basis, as appropriate, taking into account the unique circumstances and needs of the schools and the students served, using regulations developed through a negotiated rulemaking process.
(b) If a tribal governing body or school board determines that the requirements described in paragraph (a) of this section are inappropriate, it may waive these requirements, in part or in whole, and propose alternative requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system that meets the requirements of section 1111 of the Act, taking into account the unique circumstances and needs of the school or schools and the students served by such schools.
(c) The Secretary and the Secretary of Education will provide technical assistance, upon request, either directly or through a contract, to a tribal governing body or school board that seeks a waiver and alternative requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 30.103
How will the Secretary implement Standards, Assessments, and Accountability System requirements?
(a) The Secretary, through the Director, must describe requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system for use at BIE-funded schools in accordance with this part. The Director must periodically review and revise these requirements, as necessary, but review will occur not less often than every four (4) years beginning with the school year for which the requirements become effective.
(b) The Director will develop an Agency Plan that will provide Indian Tribes, schools, parents, and other stakeholders with quality, transparent information about how the Act will be implemented at BIE-funded schools, including the requirements that have been established for standards, assessments, and an accountability system for BIE-funded schools.
(c) The Secretary will engage in meaningful consultation with Indian Tribes and Alaska Native Villages, schools, parents, and other stakeholders, when developing and revising requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system for BIE-funded schools.
(d) The Secretary may voluntarily partner with States, or another Federal agency, in the development of challenging academic standards and assessments.
§ 30.104
How will the Secretary implement requirements for standards?
(a) The Secretary will implement requirements for academic standards for BIE-funded schools by adopting:
(1) Challenging academic content standards; and
(2) Aligned academic achievement standards consisting of at least three levels of achievement defined in the Agency Plan.
(b) Combined, both academic content standards and academic achievement standards are hereinafter collectively referred to as “challenging academic standards.”
(c) The academic content standards will apply to all BIE-funded schools and the students served at those schools. Such academic content standards will include:
(1) Mathematics;
(2) Reading or Language Arts;
(3) Science;
(4) Tribal civics, as appropriations become available; and
(5) Any other subject determined by the Secretary.
(d) The academic content standards must be aligned to entrance requirements for credit-bearing coursework in higher education and relevant career and technical education standards.
(e) The Secretary must, through a documented and validated standards-setting process, adopt alternate academic achievement standards for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities that:
(1) Are aligned with the challenging academic content standards under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section;
(2) Promote access to the general education curriculum, consistent with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) (20 U.S.C. 1400
et seq.
);
(3) Reflect professional judgment as to the highest possible standards achievable by the students;
(4) Are designated in the individualized education program developed under section 614(d)(3) of IDEA (20 U.S.C. 1414(d)(3)) for each such student as the academic achievement standards that will be used for the student; and
(5) Are aligned to ensure that a student who meets the alternate academic achievement standards is on track to pursue postsecondary education or competitive integrated employment, consistent with the purposes of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended by the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, as in effect on July 22, 2014.
(f) The Secretary will adopt English language proficiency standards that:
(1) Are derived from the four (4) recognized domains of speaking, listening, reading, and writing;
(2) Address the different proficiency levels of English learners; and
(3) Are aligned with the challenging academic standards.
§ 30.105
How will the Secretary implement requirements for academic content assessments?
(a)
Academic assessments.
The BIE will implement a set of high quality student academic assessments in mathematics, reading or language arts, and science. As appropriations become available, BIE will implement an assessment in tribal civics.
(b)
Requirements for academic assessments.
The academic assessments must:
(1) Except with respect to alternate assessments for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities, be:
(i) The same academic assessments used to measure the achievement of all BIE-funded school students; and
(ii) Administered to all BIE-funded school students, including the following highly-mobile student populations:
(A) Students with status as a migratory child;
(B) Students with status as a homeless child or youth;
(C) Students with status as a child in foster care;
(D) Students with status as a student with a parent who is a member of the armed forces on active duty or serves on full-time National Guard duty;
(2) Be aligned with the BIE's challenging academic standards, and provide coherent and timely information about student attainment of such standards and whether the student is performing at the student's grade level;
(3) Be used for purposes for which such assessments are valid and reliable, consistent with relevant, nationally recognized professional and technical testing standards; objectively measure academic achievement, knowledge, and skills; and use tests that do not evaluate or assess personal or family beliefs and attitudes, or publicly disclose personally identifiable information, except that this provision does not preclude the use of:
(i) Constructed-response, short answer, or essay questions; or
(ii) Items that require a student to analyze a passage of text or to express opinions;
(4) Be of adequate technical quality for each purpose required under the Act and consistent with the requirements of this section, the evidence of which will be made public, including on the BIE website;
(5) Be administered:
(i) In the case of mathematics and reading or language arts:
(A) In each of grades three (3) through eight (8); and
(B) At least once in grades nine (9) through twelve (12);
(ii) In the case of science, not less than one time during:
(A) Grades three (3) through five (5);
(B) Grades six (6) through nine (9); and
(C) Grades ten (10) through twelve (12); and
(iii) In the case of any other subject chosen by the BIE, at the discretion of the BIE;
(6) Involve multiple up-to-date measures of student academic achievement, including measures that assess higher-
order thinking skills, such as critical thinking, reasoning, analysis, complex problem solving, effective communication, and understanding of challenging content, which may:
(i) Include valid and reliable measures of student academic growth at all achievement levels to help ensure that the assessment results could be used to improve student instruction; and
(ii) Be partially delivered in the form of portfolios, projects, or extended performance tasks;
(7) At the BIE's discretion, be administered through:
(i) A single summative assessment; or
(ii) Multiple Bureau-wide interim assessments during the course of the academic year that result in a single summative score that provides valid, reliable, and transparent information on student achievement or growth;
(8) Produce individual student interpretive, descriptive, and diagnostic reports, consistent with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, regarding achievement on such assessments that allow parents, teachers, principals, and other school leaders to understand and address the specific academic needs of students, and that are provided to parents, teachers, and school leaders, as soon as is practicable after the assessment is given, in an understandable and uniform format, and to the extent practicable, in a language that parents can understand;
(9) Enable results to be disaggregated:
(i) Within the Bureau and each BIE-funded school by:
(A) Each major racial and ethnic group;
(B) Economically disadvantaged students as compared to students who are not economically disadvantaged;
(C) Children with disabilities as defined in section 602(3) of the IDEA compared to children without disabilities;
(D) English proficiency status;
(E) Gender;
(F) Migrant status;
(G) Status as a homeless child or youth as defined in section 725(2) of title VII, subtitle B of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended;
(H) Status as a child in foster care; and
(I) Status as a student with a parent who is a member of the armed forces on active duty or serves on full-time National Guard duty.
(ii) Disaggregation is not required in the cases in which the number of students in a subgroup is insufficient to yield statistically reliable information or the results would reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student;
(10) Enable itemized score analyses to be produced and reported, consistent with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, to BIE-funded schools, so that parents, teachers, principals, other school leaders, and administrators can interpret and address the specific academic needs of students as indicated by the students' achievement on assessment items; and
(11) Be designed and developed:
(i) To be valid and accessible for use by all students, including students with disabilities and English learners; and
(ii) To the extent practicable, using the principles of universal design for learning. For the purposes of this section, “universal design for learning” means a scientifically valid framework for guiding educational practice that:
(A) Provides flexibility in the ways information is presented, in the ways students respond or demonstrate knowledge and skills, and in the ways students are engaged; and
(B) Reduces barriers in instruction, provides appropriate accommodations, supports, and challenges, and maintains high achievement expectations for all students, including students with disabilities and English learners.
(c)
Exception for advanced mathematics in middle school.
The BIE will determine the use of this exemption in the Agency Plan.
(d)
Computer adaptive assessments.
(1) BIE retains the right to develop and administer computer adaptive assessments as the assessments described in this section, provided the computer adaptive assessments meet the requirements of this section, except that:
(i) The requirement that the same academic assessments must be used to measure the achievement of all BIE-
funded school students and that the assessments must be administered to all BIE-funded school students may not be interpreted to require that all students taking the computer adaptive assessment be administered the same assessment items; and
(ii) Such assessment:
(A) Must measure, at a minimum, each student's academic proficiency based on the challenging academic standards for the student's grade level and growth toward such standards; and
(B) May measure the student's level of academic proficiency and growth using items above or below the student's grade level, including for use as part of the accountability system.
(2) In developing and administering computer adaptive assessments for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities and English learners:
(i) The BIE will ensure that the computer adaptive assessments for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities:
(A) Assess a student's academic achievement based on the challenging academic content standards for the grade in which the student is enrolled;
(B) Meet the requirements of this section and §§ 30.106 through 30.110, including § 30.108, except the assessments are not required to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(C) Assess the student's academic achievement to measure, in the subject being assessed, whether the student is performing at the student's grade level; and
(ii) The BIE may provide for the use of computer adaptive assessments that:
(A) Meet the requirements §§ 30.106 through 30.110 except the assessments are not required to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(B) Assess the student's English language proficiency, which may include growth towards such proficiency, in order to measure the student's acquisition of English.
(e)
Peer review and future guidance on academic assessments.
(1) The BIE assessments required by these regulations must undergo peer review with the exception of tribal civics and non-content Native American language academic assessments.
(2) BIE will develop guidance on the use of academic assessments in a Native American language for purposes of compliance with these regulatory requirements, including evidence of technical validity and reliability, in consultation with the Department of Education, Tribes, and other stakeholders.
(f)
Rule of construction on parental rights.
Nothing in this section may be construed as preempting tribal law at a tribally controlled school regarding the decision of a parent to not have the parent's child participate in the academic assessments under this paragraph (f).
(g)
Limitation on assessment time.
The Secretary may set a target limit on the aggregate amount of time devoted to the administration of assessments for each grade, expressed as a percentage of annual instructional hours.
(h)
Students in Native American language schools or programs.
The BIE is not required to assess, using an assessment written in English, student achievement in meeting the BIE's challenging State academic standards in reading/language arts, mathematics, or science for a student who is enrolled in a school or program that provides instruction primarily in a Native American language if:
(1) The program or school provides an assessment in the Native American language to all students in the program or school and:
(i) Submits evidence to the BIE according to BIE guidelines developed under paragraph (e)(2) of this section regarding such assessment's technical validity and reliability for the purposes for which it is intended; and
(ii) BIE submits this evidence to Department of Education for approval; and
(2) For an English learner the BIE continues to assess the English language proficiency of such English learner, using the annual English language proficiency assessment required under § 30.110, and provides appropriate services to enable him or her to attain proficiency in English.
§ 30.106
How will the Secretary provide for the inclusion of all students in assessments?
The Secretary will provide assessment instruments that allow for:
(a) The participation of all students, generally;
(b) The participation of students with disabilities, as detailed in §§ 30.107 and 30.108; and
(c) The participation of English learners, as detailed in § 30.109.
§ 30.107
How will the Secretary include students with disabilities in assessments?
(a) The BIE and BIE-funded schools must ensure that students with disabilities have the appropriate accommodations, such as interoperability with, and ability to use, assistive technology, for students with disabilities, including students with the most significant cognitive disabilities, necessary to measure the academic achievement of such children relative to the BIE's challenging academic standards or alternate academic achievement standards described in § 30.104(d) and (e).
(b) The Secretary must include students with disabilities in all assessments, with appropriate accommodations. For purposes of this section, students with disabilities, collectively, are:
(1) All children with disabilities as defined under section 602(3) of the IDEA;
(2) Students with the most significant cognitive disabilities who are identified from among the students in paragraph (a) of this section; and
(3) Students with disabilities covered under other acts, including:
(i) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; and
(ii) Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), as amended.
(c) Appropriate accommodations for those students described in paragraph (b) of this section will be determined by:
(1) For each student under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, the student's IEP team;
(2) For each student under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the student's placement team; or
(3) For each student under paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the individual or team designated by the school to make these decisions.
(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a student with a disability must be assessed with an assessment aligned with the BIE's challenging academic standards for the grade in which the student is enrolled.
(2) A student with the most significant cognitive disabilities may be assessed with:
(i) The general assessment under § 30.106(b); or
(ii) The alternate assessment under § 30.108 aligned with the BIE's challenging academic content standards for the grade in which the student is enrolled and the BIE's alternate academic achievement standards.
(e) The BIE and school must ensure that general and special education teachers, paraprofessionals, teachers of English learners, specialized instructional support personnel, and other appropriate staff receive necessary training to administer assessments and know how to administer assessments, including, as necessary, alternate assessments, and know how to make use of appropriate accommodations during assessment for all students with disabilities, consistent with section 1111(b)(2)(B)(vii)(III) of the Act.
(f) The BIE and school must ensure that the use of appropriate accommodations under paragraph (c) of this section does not deny a student with a disability:
(1) The opportunity to participate in the assessment; and
(2) Any of the benefits from participation in the assessment that are afforded to students without disabilities.
§ 30.108
How will the Secretary provide for alternate assessments for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities?
(a)
Alternate assessments aligned with alternate academic achievement standards.
The BIE will provide for alternate assessments aligned with the challenging academic content standards for the grade in which the student is enrolled and alternate academic achievement standards described in § 30.104(d)
and (e) for students with the most significant cognitive disabilities. The BIE must:
(1) Consistent with paragraph (b) of this section, ensure that, for each subject, the total number of students assessed in the subject using the alternate assessments does not exceed one (1) percent of the total number of all students in all BIE-funded schools who are assessed in the subject;
(2) With regard to the percentage of students assessed under this paragraph (a):
(i) Not prohibit a BIE-funded school from assessing more than one (1) percent of its assessed students in any subject for which assessments are administered with an alternate assessment aligned with alternate academic achievement standards;
(ii) Require that the BIE-funded school submit by October 1 information into the BIE's student information system regarding what assessment the student is to take and which must be consistent with the individualized education program (IEP);
(iii) Provide appropriate oversight of a BIE-funded school that is required to submit information to the BIE; and
(iv) Make the information submitted by a BIE-funded school under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section publicly available, provided that such information does not reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student;
(3) With regard to IEP teams:
(i) Establish clear and appropriate guidelines, consistent with section 612(a)(16)(C) of the IDEA, and provide technical assistance as requested in writing, and monitor implementation of clear and appropriate guidelines for IEP teams to apply in determining, on a case-by-case basis, which students with the most significant cognitive disabilities will be assessed based on alternate academic achievement standards. Such guidelines must include a BIE definition of “students with the most significant cognitive disabilities” that addresses factors related to cognitive functioning and adaptive behavior, such that:
(A) The identification of a student as having a particular disability as defined in the IDEA or as an English learner does not determine whether a student is a student with the most significant cognitive disabilities;
(B) A student with the most significant cognitive disabilities is not identified solely on the basis of the student's previous low academic achievement, or the student's previous need for accommodations to participate in general BIE assessments; and
(C) A student is identified as having the most significant cognitive disabilities because the student requires extensive, direct individualized instruction and substantial supports to achieve measurable gains on the BIE's challenging academic content standards for the grade in which the student is enrolled; and
(ii) Provide to IEP teams a clear explanation of the differences between assessments based on grade-level academic achievement standards and those based on alternate academic achievement standards, including any effects of BIE and BIE-funded school policies on a student's education resulting from taking an alternate assessment aligned with alternate academic achievement standards, such as how participation in such assessments may delay or otherwise affect the student from completing the requirements for a regular high school diploma;
(4) Ensure that the parents of such students are clearly informed, as part of the process for developing the individualized education program (as defined in section 614(d)(1)(A) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1414(d)(1)(A))):
(i) That their child's academic achievement will be measured based on the alternate academic achievement standards; and
(ii) How participation in the assessments may delay or otherwise affect the student from completing the requirements for a regular high school diploma;
(5) Promote, consistent with the IDEA (20 U.S.C. 1400
et seq.
), the involvement and progress of students with the most significant cognitive disabilities in the general education curriculum;
(6) Describe the steps the Bureau has taken to incorporate universal design
for learning, to the extent feasible, in alternate assessments;
(7) Describe that general and special education teachers, and other appropriate staff:
(i) Know how to administer the alternate assessments; and
(ii) Make appropriate use of accommodations for students with disabilities on all assessments required under this paragraph (a);
(8) Develop, disseminate information on, and promote the use of appropriate accommodations to increase the number of students with significant cognitive disabilities:
(i) Participating in academic instruction and assessments for the grade level in which the student is enrolled; and
(ii) Who are tested based on the BIE's challenging academic standards for the grade level in which the student is enrolled; and
(9) Not preclude a student with the most significant cognitive disabilities who takes an alternate assessment based on alternate academic achievement standards from attempting to complete the requirements for a regular high school diploma.
(b)
Responsibility under IDEA.
Subject to the authority and requirements for the IEP team for a child with a disability under section 614(d)(1)(A)(i)(VI)(bb) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1414(d)(1)(A)(i)(VI)(bb)), such team, consistent with the guidelines established by the BIE and required under section 612(a)(16)(C) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1412(a)(16)(C)) and paragraph (a)(1) of this section, will determine when a child with a significant cognitive disability may participate in an alternate assessment aligned with the alternate academic achievement standards.
§ 30.109
How will the Secretary include English learners in academic content assessments?
(a)
English learners.
English learners must be:
(1) Assessed in a valid and reliable manner; and
(2) Provided appropriate accommodations on assessments administered including, to the extent practicable, assessments in the language and form most likely to yield accurate data on what the students know and can do in academic content areas, until the students have achieved English language proficiency, consistent with standardized BIE-determined exit procedures.
(b)
Language or form of assessment.
Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(2) of this section, BIE-funded schools must provide for assessments (using tests in English) of reading or language arts of any student who has attended school in the United States for three (3) or more consecutive school years, except that if the BIE-funded school determines, on a case-by-case individual basis, that academic assessments in another language or form would likely yield more accurate and reliable information on what the student knows and can do, the BIE-funded school may make a determination to assess the student in the appropriate language other than English for a period that does not exceed two (2) additional consecutive years, provided that the student has not yet reached a level of English language proficiency sufficient to yield valid and reliable information on what the student knows and can do on tests (written in English) of reading or language arts. This requirement does not permit either the BIE or BIE-funded schools to exempt English learners from participating in the BIE's assessment system.
(c)
BIE responsibilities.
The BIE must:
(1) Disseminate information and resources regarding English learners to, at a minimum, BIE-funded schools, and parents;
(2) Promote the use of accommodations for English learners to ensure that all English learners are able to participate in academic instruction and assessments; and
(3) Provide technical assistance when requested in writing.
(d)
Exception for recently arrived English learners.
With respect to recently arrived English learners who have been enrolled in a school in one of the 50 States in the United States or the District of Columbia for less than twelve (12) months, the BIE may choose to:
(1) Exclude:
(i) The English learner from one administration of the reading or language
arts assessment required under § 30.105; and
(ii) The English learner's results on any of the assessments required under § 30.105(b)(5)(i) or § 30.110 for the first year of the English learner's enrollment in the school for the purposes of the BIE-determined accountability system under § 30.111; or
(2) Assess, and report the performance of:
(i) The English learner on the reading or language arts and mathematics assessments required under § 30.105(b)(5)(i) in each year of the student's enrollment in such a school; and
(ii) For the purposes of the BIE-determined accountability system:
(A) For the first year of the student's enrollment in the school, exclude the results on the assessments described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section;
(B) Include a measure of student growth on the assessments described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section in the second year of the student's enrollment in the school; and
(C) Include proficiency on the assessments in reading or language arts and mathematics described in this paragraph (d) in the third year of the student's enrollment in such a school, and each succeeding year of enrollment.
(e)
English learner subgroup.
With respect to a student previously identified as an English learner and for not more than four (4) years after the student ceases to be identified as an English learner, the BIE may include the results of the student's academic content assessments within the English learner subgroup of the subgroups of students as defined in § 30.101 for the purposes of the BIE-determined accountability system.
§ 30.110
How will the Secretary ensure BIE-funded schools will provide for annual assessments of English language proficiency for English learners?
(a) The BIE will ensure that BIE-funded schools will administer a valid and reliable annual assessment of English proficiency to all English learners in the schools served by the BIE.
(b) The BIE will require BIE-funded schools to use the assessment to assess annually the English language proficiency, including reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills, of all English learners in kindergarten through grade twelve (12).
(c) The English language proficiency assessment must be aligned with the BIE's English language proficiency standards described in § 30.104(f).
(d) The assessment will be implemented, developed, and used consistent with the requirements of this section.
(e) The assessment will provide coherent and timely information about each student's attainment of the BIE's English language proficiency standards to parents.
(f) If an English learner has a disability that precludes assessment of the student in one or more domains of the English language proficiency assessment such that there are no appropriate accommodations for the affected domain(s) (
e.g.,
a non-verbal English learner who because of an identified disability cannot take the speaking portion of the assessment), as determined, on an individualized basis, by the student's IEP team, 504 team, or by the individual or team designated by the BIE-funded school to make these decisions under title II of the ADA, then the BIE must assess the student's English language proficiency based on the remaining domains in which it is possible to assess the student.
(g) The BIE must provide for an alternate English language proficiency assessment for English learners with the most significant cognitive disabilities who cannot participate in the assessment under this paragraph (g) even with appropriate accommodations.
(h) BIE will provide technical assistance, including training teachers on how to administer assessments, in regard to English language proficiency assessments and alternate English language proficiency assessments to BIE-funded schools as requested in writing.
§ 30.111
How will the Secretary implement requirements for an accountability system?
(a) The Secretary will define accountability system for BIE-funded schools consistent with this section and subpart C of this part, including
provisions for a single Bureau-wide accountability system and system of support and improvement activities, taking into account the unique circumstances and needs of BIE-funded schools and the students served by BIE-funded schools.
(b) To improve student academic achievement and school success among all elementary and secondary schools within the BIE-funded school system, the Secretary will develop and implement a single, Bureau-wide accountability system that:
(1) Is based on the Bureau's challenging academic standards and academic assessments;
(2) Is informed by ambitious long-term goals and measurements of interim progress;
(3) Includes all the accountability indicators described paragraph (e) of this section;
(4) Takes into account the achievement of all elementary and secondary school students within the BIE-funded school system;
(5) Is the same accountability system used to annually, meaningfully differentiate all schools within the BIE-funded school system and the same accountability system used to identify schools for comprehensive and targeted support and improvement; and
(6) Includes the process that the Bureau will use to ensure effective development and implementation of school support and improvement plans, including evidence-based interventions, to hold all schools within the BIE-funded school system accountable for student academic achievement and school success.
(c) The inclusion of science and tribal civics will be phased into the Secretary's requirements for accountability system starting as a school quality or student success indicator and their continued use in such manner will be revisited as the accountability system is implemented.
(d) For all students and separately for each subgroup of students within the BIE-funded school system, the BIE will establish long-term goals and measurements of interim progress that will include, at a minimum, improved academic achievement, as measured by proficiency on the Bureau's annual assessments in mathematics and reading or language arts under § 30.105(b)(5)(i), and high school graduation rates, including the four (4)-year adjusted cohort graduation rate, or at BIE's discretion one or more extended year graduation cohorts, and that will:
(1) Use the same multi-year length of time for all students and for each subgroup of students within the BIE-funded school system to meet the goals; and
(2) Take into account, for subgroups of students who are behind on the measurements of academic achievement and high school graduations rates, the improvement necessary to make significant progress in closing Bureau-wide proficiency and graduation rate gaps.
(e) For all students and separately for each subgroup of students within the BIE-funded school system, the BIE will include a long-term goal and measurements of interim progress for increases in the percentage of English learner students making progress in achieving English language proficiency as defined by the Secretary and measured by the assessments under § 30.110 within a timeline determined by the Bureau.
(f) For all students and separately for each subgroup of students the Bureau will establish and annually measure the following accountability indicators:
(1) For all schools, based upon the long-term goals established under paragraphs (b)(2) and (d) of this section, academic achievement:
(i) As measured by proficiency on the annual assessments of mathematics and reading or language arts described in § 30.105(b)(5)(i); and
(ii) At the BIE's discretion, for each high school, growth, as measured by such annual assessments.
(2) For elementary and secondary schools that are not high schools:
(i) A measure of student growth, if determined to be appropriate by the BIE; or
(ii) Another valid and reliable Bureau-wide academic indicator that allows for meaningful differentiation in school performance.
(3) For high schools, based upon the long-term goals established under paragraphs (b)(2) and (d) of this section:
(i) The four (4)-year adjusted cohort graduation rate; and
(ii) At the BIE's discretion, the extended-year adjusted graduation cohort rate, as defined in paragraph (j) of this section.
(4) For all schools, progress in achieving English language proficiency, as defined by the BIE and measured by the assessments of English language proficiency described in § 30.110, within a BIE-determined timeline for all English learners:
(i) In each of grades three (3) through eight (8); and
(ii) In the high school grade for which such English learners are otherwise assessed in mathematics and reading or language arts.
(5) For all schools, not less than one indicator of school quality or student success that:
(i) Allows for meaningful differentiation in school performance;
(ii) Is valid, reliable, comparable, and Bureau-wide (with the same indicator or indicators used for each grade span, as such term is determined by the BIE); and
(iii) May include one or more of the following measures:
(A) Student or Educator engagement;
(B) Chronic absenteeism;
(C) Student access to and completion of advanced coursework;
(D) Postsecondary readiness;
(E) School climate and safety; and
(F) Any other indicator the BIE chooses that meets the requirements of this section.
(g) The BIE will establish a system for meaningfully differentiating, annually, all schools that will:
(1) Be based on all indicators described paragraph (f) of this section for all students and for each subgroup of students; and
(2) With respect to paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section, afford:
(i) Substantial weight to each such indicator;
(ii) In the aggregate, much greater weight than is afforded to the indicator or indicators utilized by the BIE and described in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, in the aggregate; and
(iii) Include differentiation of any such school in which any subgroup of students is consistently underperforming, as determined by the BIE, based on all indicators described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(h) Based on the system of meaningful differentiation described in paragraph (g) of this section, the BIE will establish a methodology to identify:
(1) Beginning with the first full school year following April 27, 2020, and at least once every three (3) years thereafter, one (1) BIE-wide category of schools for comprehensive support and improvement, which will include:
(i) Not less than the lowest-performing five (5) percent of all schools receiving Title I funding;
(ii) All high schools failing to graduate one third (
1/3
) or more of their students; and
(iii) All schools identified for additional targeted support and improvement that receive ESEA Title I funding and do not meet exit criteria as provided in § 30.124(a)(2).
(2) The BIE will provide technical assistance to all schools identified for comprehensive support and improvement, targeted support and improvement, or additional targeted support.
(i) The Bureau's accountability system will annually measure the achievement of at least ninety-five (95) percent of all students, and ninety-five (95) percent of each subgroup of students, who are enrolled in a school within the BIE-funded school system on the Bureau's assessments. The denominator for the purpose of measuring, calculating, and reporting on the academic achievement indicator will be the greater of:
(1) Ninety-five (95) percent of all students, or ninety-five (95) percent of each subgroup of students; or
(2) The number of students participating in the assessments.
(j) The performance of students that have not attended the same BIE-funded school for at least half (
1/2
) of a school year will not be included in the academic achievement, other academic, progress in achieving English language proficiency, or school quality or student success indicators for that school year, but will be used for the purpose of
reporting on the Bureau and school report cards for that school year.
(k) Extended-year adjusted cohort graduation rate means the fraction—
(1) The denominator of which consists of the number of students who form the original cohort of entering first-time students in grade nine (9) enrolled in the high school, adjusted by—
(i) Adding the students who joined that cohort, after the date of the determination of the original cohort; and
(ii) Subtracting only those students who left that cohort, after the date of the determination of the original cohort, as described in paragraph (l) of this section; and
(2) The numerator of which—
(i) Consists of the sum of—
(A) The number of students in the cohort, as adjusted under paragraph (k)(1) of this section, who earned a regular high school diploma before, during, or at the conclusion of—
(
1
) One or more additional years beyond the fourth year of high school; or
(
2
) A summer session immediately following the additional year of high school; and
(B) All students with the most significant cognitive disabilities in the cohort, as adjusted under paragraph (k)(1) of this section, assessed using the alternate assessment aligned to alternate academic achievement standards under § 30.108 and awarded an alternate diploma that is—
(
1
) Standards-based;
(
2
) Aligned with the requirements for the regular high school diploma; and
(
3
) Obtained within the time period for which the BIE ensures the availability of a free appropriate public education under 20 U.S.C. 1412(a)(1); and
(ii) Does not include any student awarded a recognized equivalent of a diploma, such as a general equivalency diploma, certificate of completion, certificate of attendance, or similar lesser credential.
(l) To remove a student from a cohort, a school or local educational agency must require documentation, or obtain documentation from the BIE, to confirm that the student has transferred out, immigrated to another country, transferred to a prison or juvenile facility, or is deceased.
(m) For purposes of this paragraph (m), the term “transferred out” has the meaning given the term in ESEA section 8101(25)(C).
(n) For those high schools that start after grade nine (9), the original cohort will be calculated for the earliest high school grade students attend no later than the date by which student membership data is collected annually by the BIE.

# Subpart B—Accountability, Waiver of Requirements, Technical Assistance, and Approval of Proposals for Alternative Requirements
§ 30.112
May a tribal governing body or school board waive the Secretary's requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system?
Yes. A tribal governing body or school board may waive the Secretary's requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system in part or in whole, and the tribal governing body or school board's alternative requirements will apply if they meet the requirements of section 1111, taking into account the unique circumstances and needs of the applicable school or schools and the students served by such school or schools, and are approved by the Secretary and the Secretary of Education. If the Secretary and the Secretary of Education do not approve the tribal governing body or school board's proposal for alternative requirements, the Secretary's requirements under this part continue to apply. Depending on the nature and content of such proposals for alternative requirements, and subject to the availability of appropriations, alternative requirements will generally be effective in the school year following the school year they are approved. Where a tribal governing body or school board proposes to use existing State requirements, approval of the use of such requirements is dependent upon the agreement of the applicable State.
§ 30.113
How does a tribal governing body or school board waive the Secretary's requirements?
(a) A tribal governing body or school board may waive the Secretary's requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system, in part or in whole.
(b) The tribal governing body or school board must notify the Secretary and the Secretary of Education in writing of the decision to waive the Secretary's requirements in part or in whole.
(c) Within sixty (60) days of the decision to waive the Secretary's requirements in part or in whole, the tribal governing body or school board must submit to the Secretary for review and, in coordination with the Secretary of Education, approval, a proposal for alternative requirements that are consistent with section 1111 of the Act, taking into account the unique circumstances and needs of the school or schools and the students served. The Secretary encourages a tribal governing body or school board to request and receive technical assistance well in advance of submission of a plan to the Secretary for review. The tribal governing body or school board must continue to follow the Secretary's requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system until a proposal for alternative requirements has been approved and until alternative requirements become effective.
(d) A tribal governing body or school board may request in writing an extension of the sixty (60) day deadline for the provision of technical assistance.
(e) A tribal governing body or school board must use this process anytime a tribal governing body or school board proposes alternative requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system, or proposes changes to approved alternative requirements.
(f) The Secretary will work with the Secretary of Education to develop and make available templates for proposals for alternative requirements that tribal governing bodies and school boards may use to assist in the development of such proposals for alternative requirements.
§ 30.114
What should a tribal governing body or school board include in a proposal for alternative requirements?
Proposals for alternative requirements must include an explanation of how the alternative proposal meets the requirements of section 1111 of the Act, taking into consideration the unique circumstances and needs of BIE-funded schools and the students served at such schools.
§ 30.115
May proposed alternative requirements use parts of the Secretary's requirements?
Yes, a tribal governing body or school board may use the Secretary's requirements in part or in whole. Alternative proposals must clearly identify any retained portions of the Secretary's requirements.
§ 30.116
Will the Secretary provide technical assistance to tribal governing bodies or school boards seeking to develop alternative requirements?
The Secretary and the Secretary of Education are required by statute to provide technical assistance, upon request, either directly or through contract, to a tribal governing body or a school board that seeks to develop alternative requirements. A tribal governing body or school board seeking such assistance must submit a request in writing to the Director. The Secretary will provide such technical assistance on an ongoing and timely basis.
§ 30.117
What is the process for requesting technical assistance?
(a) Requests for technical assistance must be in writing from a tribal governing body or school board to the Director of BIE and the Department of Education's Assistant Secretary of the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education.
(b) The Director, or designee, will acknowledge receipt of a request for technical assistance.
(c) No later than thirty (30) days after receiving the original request, the Director will identify a point-of-contact and begin the process of providing technical assistance. The Director and requesting tribal governing body or
school board will work together to identify the form, substance, and timeline for the assistance.
§ 30.118
When should the tribal governing body or school board request technical assistance?
A tribal governing body or school board may request technical assistance in writing at any time. A tribal governing body or school board is welcomed and encouraged to request technical assistance before formally notifying the Secretary of its intention to waive the requirements established by the Secretary in order to maximize the time available for technical assistance.
§ 30.119
How does the Secretary review and approve alternative requirements?
(a) The Secretary and the Secretary of Education will jointly approve plans for alternative requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system or determine that the proposed alternative requirements do not meet the requirements of section 1111 of the Act.
(1) The Secretary will consult with the Secretary of Education through the review of a proposal for alternative requirements.
(2) Upon receipt of a proposal for alternative requirements for standards, assessments, and an accountability system, in part or in whole, the Secretary will begin coordination with the Secretary of Education on review and approval of the proposal.
(3) The Secretary will provide a status update regarding the processing of the proposal within 120 days of receipt of the proposal and every thirty (30) days thereafter to discuss the stage of the review process.
(b) If the Secretary and the Secretary of Education approve a proposal for alternative requirements, the Secretary will:
(1) Promptly notify the tribal governing body or school board; and
(2) Indicate the date for which the alternative proposal will be effective.
(c) If a proposal for alternative requirements is not approved, the tribal governing body or school board will be notified that:
(1) The proposal has not been approved; and
(2) The reasons why the alternative proposal was not approved.
(d) If a proposal for alternative requirements is not approved, the Secretary will provide technical assistance to the tribal governing body or school board to help to overcome the reasons why the alternative proposal was not approved.
(e) If a proposal for alternative requirements is not approved, or is not moving forward, then Tribes may individually request formal consultation with the Secretary and Secretary of Education.

# Subpart C—Support and Improvement
§ 30.120
How will the Secretary notify BIE-funded schools that they have been identified for school support and improvement activities?
The Secretary will notify each BIE-funded school that has been identified for comprehensive support and improvement as described in § 30.111(h).
§ 30.121
How will the Secretary implement requirements for comprehensive support and improvement activities?
(a) Once notified that it has been identified for comprehensive support and improvement, each BIE-funded school is required to develop and implement, in partnership with stakeholders (including principals and other school leaders, teachers, and parents), a comprehensive support and improvement plan to improve student outcomes that:
(1) Is informed by all indicators described in § 30.111(f), including student performance against BIE-determined long-term goals described in § 30.111(d);
(2) Includes evidence-based interventions;
(3) Is based on a school-level needs assessment;
(4) Identifies resource inequities, which may include a review of school-level budgeting, to be addressed through implementation of such comprehensive support and improvement plan;
(5) Is approved by the school and the BIE; and
(6) Upon approval and implementation, is monitored and periodically reviewed by the BIE.
(b) In regard to high schools that have been identified as having failed to graduate one-third or more of their students, the BIE may:
(1) Permit differentiated improvement activities that use evidence-based interventions in the case of a school that predominantly serves students:
(i) Returning to education after having exited secondary school without a regular high school diploma; or
(ii) Who, based on their grade or age, are significantly off track to accumulate sufficient academic credits to meet high school graduation requirements; and
(2) In the case of a school that has a total enrollment of fewer than 100 students, permit the BIE-funded school to forego implementation of improvement activities.
§ 30.122
How will the Secretary implement requirements for targeted support and improvement activities?
(a) Using the system of annual meaningful differentiation of schools described in § 30.111(b)(5) and (f), the BIE will notify each BIE-funded school in which any subgroup of students is consistently underperforming in accordance with § 30.111(g)(2)(iii).
(b) Each school that has been notified must develop and implement, in partnership with stakeholders (including principals and other school leaders, teachers, and parents), a school-level targeted support and improvement plan to improve student outcomes based on the BIE's indicators for each subgroup of students that was the subject of such notification that:
(1) Is informed by all indicators described in § 30.111(f), including performance against long-term goals described in § 30.111(d);
(2) Includes evidence-based interventions;
(3) Is approved by the BIE prior to implementation of such plan;
(4) Is monitored by the BIE, upon submission and implementation; and
(5) Results in additional action following unsuccessful implementation of such plan after a number of years determined by the BIE.
§ 30.123
How will the Secretary implement requirements to identify schools for additional targeted support?
(a) The BIE will identify for additional support and improvement each school with one (1) or more subgroups that is performing as poorly as the lowest-performing five (5) percent of all Title I schools identified for comprehensive support and improvement in the BIE system using the BIE's system of annual meaningful differentiation of schools described in § 30.111(g).
(b) Each school identified for additional targeted support and improvement must develop and implement a school-level targeted support and improvement plan and identify resource inequities (which may include a review of BIE-funded school level budgeting), to be addressed through implementation of the plan.
§ 30.124
How will the Secretary implement continued support for Bureau-funded schools and school improvement?
(a) The Secretary will establish exit criteria for:
(1) Schools identified for comprehensive support and improvement, which, if not satisfied within a BIE-determined number of years (not to exceed four (4) years), will result in more rigorous BIE-determined action, such as implementation of interventions (which may include addressing school-level operations); and
(2) Schools identified for additional targeted support, which, if not satisfied within a BIE-determined number of years, will, in the case of schools receiving Title I funds, result in identification of the school by the BIE for comprehensive support and improvement.
(b) The Secretary will also periodically review resource allocation to support school improvement.

# Subpart D—Responsibilities and Accountability
§ 30.125
What is required for the Bureau to meet its reporting responsibilities?
The Bureau is required to prepare and disseminate widely to the public an annual report card for the BIE-funded school system as a whole, and also report cards for individual BIE-funded schools, consistent with the requirements of section 1111(h) of the Act. The BIE's annual report card will be made available on the internet along with all BIE-funded school report cards.
§ 30.126
What information collections have been approved?
The collections of information in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-0191. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB Control Number.
Pt. 31

# PART 31—FEDERAL SCHOOLS FOR INDIANS
Sec.
31.0
Definitions.
31.2
Use of Federal school facilities.
31.3
Non-Indian pupils in Indian schools.
31.4
Compulsory attendance.
31.6
Coercion prohibited.
31.7
Handling of student funds in Federal school facilities.

# Authority:
Sec. 1, 41 Stat. 410; 25 U.S.C. 282, unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
22 FR 10533, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted.
§ 31.0
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
School district
means the local unit of school administration as defined by the laws of the State in which it is located.
(b)
Cooperative school
means a school operated under a cooperative agreement between a school district and the Bureau of Indian Affairs in conformance with State and Federal school laws and regulations.
(35 Stat. 72, 25 U.S.C. 295)
[33 FR 6472, Apr. 27, 1968]
§ 31.2
Use of Federal school facilities.
Federal Indian school facilities may be used for community activities and for adult education activities upon approval by the superintendent or officer in charge.
§ 31.3
Non-Indian pupils in Indian schools.
Indian and non-Indian children who are not eligible for enrollment in Bureau-operated schools under § 31.1 may be enrolled in such schools under the following conditions:
(a) In boarding schools upon payment of tuition fees, which shall not exceed the per capita cost of maintenance in the school attended, when their presence will not exclude Indian pupils eligible under § 31.1.
(b) In day schools in areas where there are no other adequate free school facilities available, tuition fees may be charged for such enrollment at the discretion of the superintendent or other officer in charge provided such fees shall not exceed the tuition fees allowed or charged by the State or county in which such school is located for the children admitted in the public schools of such State or county.
(34 Stat. 1018, 35 Stat. 783, 40 Stat. 564; 25 U.S.C. 288, 289, 297)
[29 FR 5828, May 2, 1964]
§ 31.4
Compulsory attendance.
Compulsory school attendance of Indian children is provided for by law.
(60 Stat. 962; 25 U.S.C. 231)

# Cross Reference:
For penalties for the failure of Indians to send children to school and for contributing to the delinquency of minors, see § 11.424 of this chapter.
§ 31.6
Coercion prohibited.
There shall be no coercion of children in the matter of transfers from one school to another, but voluntary enrollment should be effected through maintenance of Federal Indian schools or programs which suit the needs and
interests of the areas in which they are located.
(Sec. 1, 29 Stat. 348; 25 U.S.C. 287)
§ 31.7
Handling of student funds in Federal school facilities.
The Secretary or his authorized representative may authorize officials and employees of the Bureau of Indian Affairs to accept and to disburse deposits of funds of students and student activity associations in schools operated by the Bureau in accordance with the purposes of such deposits. The following steps shall be taken to safeguard these funds:
(a) A written plan of operation shall be developed by the membership of each student activity group. The plan of operation subject to the approval of authorized officials shall outline procedures and provide for a system of accounting for the student funds commensurate with the age and grade level of the students yet adequate for financial control purposes and shall stipulate the maximum operating capital of activity.
(b) Appropriate safekeeping facilities shall be provided for all student personal and group funds and for the accounting or bookkeeping records.
(c) Employees handling student funds in cumulative amounts in excess of $100 shall be covered by a comprehensive fidelity bond the penal sum of which shall be appropriately related to fund amounts handled.
(d) Student funds accumulated in excess of the amount authorized for operating purposes by the plan of operation shall be deposited in federally insured depositories.
(e) Periodic administrative inspections and financial audit of student fund operations shall be conducted by authorized Bureau personnel.
[26 FR 10637, Nov. 14, 1961]
Pt. 32

# PART 32—INDIAN EDUCATION POLICIES
Sec.
32.1
Purpose and scope.
32.2
Definitions.
32.3
Mission statement.
32.4
Policies.
32.5
Evaluation of implementation of Pub. L. 95-561.

# Authority:
Secs. 1130 and 1133 of Title XI of the Education Amendments of 1978 (92 Stat. 2143, 2321 and 2325, Pub. L. 95-561; 25 U.S.C. 2010 and 2013).

# Source:
44 FR 58098, Oct. 9, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 32.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this part is to state the policies to be followed by all schools and education programs under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Contract schools operated by Indian Tribes or Alaska Native entities may develop their independent policies, consistent with contractual obligations, or adhere to these. The adherence to the appropriate policies shall reflect the best interests of the student, the Federal government, the Tribes and Alaska Native entities, and shall be based on educationally sound judgment.
§ 32.2
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
(a)
Agency School Board
means a body, the members of which are appointed by the school boards of the schools located within such agency, and the number of such members shall be determined by the Director in consultation with the affected Tribes or Alaska Native entities except that, in agencies serving a single school, the school board of such school shall fulfill these duties.
(b)
Alaska Native
means an Indian, Eskimo, or Aleut who is a member of an Alaska Native entity.
(c)
Alaska Native Entity
means any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688; 43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
).
(d)
Alaska Native Village
means any Native village as defined in section 3(c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 689; 43 U.S.C. 1602 (c)).
(e)
Boarding school,
hereinafter referred to as
residential school,
means a Bureau school offering residential care and support services as well as an academic program.
(f)
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
(g)
Consultation
means a conferring process with Tribes, Alaska Native entities, and Tribal organizations on a periodic and systematic basis in which the Bureau and Department officials listen to and give effect, to the extent they can, to the views of these entities.
(h)
Contract school
means a school (other than a public school) which is Tribally operated and aided by a financial assistance contract with the Bureau.
(i)
Day school
means a Bureau school offering an academic program and certain support services such as counseling, food, transportation, etc., but excluding residential care.
(j)
Director
means the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs, Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(k)
Early childhood education
means comprehensive education activities with continuity of educational approach for children ages 0-8 years and their families, appropriate for their age, development, language and culture which supplement and support usual family responsibilities for child growth and development. They are coordinated with, but do not supplant, existing educational, health, nutritional, social and other necessary services.
(l)
Exceptional Education Programs
mean the provision of services to those children who are identified as handicapped and have been found to meet the criteria of handicapped as defined in Pub. L. 94-142, and programs for gifted and talented students.
(m)
Indian
means a member of an Indian Tribe.
(n)
Indian Organization
means any group, association, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity owned or controlled by a federally recognized Indian Tribe or Tribes, or a majority of whose members are members of federally recognized Indian Tribes.
(o)
Indian Tribe
or
Tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony, or community which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
(p)
Local school board,
when used with respect to a Bureau school, means a body chosen in accordance with the laws of the Tribe or Alaska Native entity to be served or, in the absence of such laws, elected by the parents of the Indian children attending the school, except that in schools serving a substantial number of students from different Tribes or Alaska Native entities the members shall be appointed by the governing bodies of the Tribes and entities affected; and, the number of such members shall be determined by the Director in consultation with the affected Tribes and entities.
(q)
Post-secondary
education means any education program beyond the age of compulsory education, including higher education, career, vocational, and technical.
(r)
Tribal Organization
means an organization composed of or duly representing Tribal governments which may be national or regional in scope and function.
§ 32.3
Mission statement.
Recognizing the special rights of Indian Tribes and Alaska Native entities and the unique government-to-government relationship of Indian Tribes and Alaska Native villages with the Federal Government as affirmed by the United States Constitution, U.S. Supreme Court decisions, treaties, Federal statutes, and Executive Orders, and as set out in the Congressional declaration in sections 2 and 3 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-638; 88 Stat. 2203; 25 U.S.C. 450 and 450a), it is the responsibility and goal of the Federal government to provide comprehensive education programs and services for Indians and Alaska Natives. As acknowledged in section 5 of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-608; 92 Stat. 3069; 25 U.S.C. 1901), in the Federal Government's protection and preservation of Indian Tribes and Alaska Native villages and their resources, there is no resource more vital to such Tribes and villages than their young people and the Federal Government has a direct interest, as trustee, in protecting Indian and Alaska Native children, including their education. The mission of the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
Office of Indian Education Programs, is to provide quality education opportunities from early childhood through life in accordance with the Tribes' needs for cultural and economic well-being in keeping with the wide diversity of Indian Tribes and Alaska Native villages as distinct cultural and governmental entities. The Bureau shall manifest consideration of the whole person, taking into account the spiritual, mental, physical and cultural aspects of the person within family and Tribal or Alaska Native village contexts.
§ 32.4
Policies.
In carrying out its Education mission, the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs through the Director shall:
(a)
Policy making.
(1) Assure that no new policy shall be established nor any existing policy changed or modified without consultation with affected Tribes and Alaska Native Government entities.
(2) Be guided in policy formulation and funding priorities, including the proposing and awarding of contracts and grants, by periodic and systematic consultation with governing bodies of Tribes and Alaska Native entities.
(3) Ensure that Indian Tribes and Alaska Native entities fully exercise self-determination and control in planning, priority-setting, development, management, operation, staffing and evaluation in all aspects of the education process.
(4) Ensure that each agency or local school board shall be authorized and empowered to function as the policy making body for the school, consistent with the authority granted by the tribes or Alaska Native entity(ies) served by the school(s).
(b)
Student rights.
Ensure the constitutional, statutory, civil and human rights of all Indian and Alaska Native students, and respect the role of Tribal judicial systems where appropriate including, for example, ensuring that students have the right to be free from cruel and unusual punishment and that all disciplinary procedures shall be consistent with appropriate customs and practices of the appropriate Indian Tribe or Alaska Native village.
(c)
Equity funding.
Assure that resources for all education programs are equitably distributed for the benefit of all Indian and Alaska Native students, taking into account special educational needs where they exist, as further described in part 39 of this subchapter.
(d)
Direction of programs.
Ensure that the education function be structured in such a manner that all matters relating to the operation of education programs be administered by or be under the direction of education personnel.
(e)
Respect for family.
Promote, respect and defend the cohesiveness and integrity of the family, and Tribal and Alaska Native community, as they relate to the educational and social prerogatives of the Tribes and Alaska Native entities.
(f)
Religious freedom.
Promote and respect the right to cultural practices and religious freedom for all students, consistent with Tribal and Alaska Native entities' wishes and with the provisions of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act (92 Stat. 469; Pub. L. 95-341; 42 U.S.C. 1996).
(g)
Tribal rights regarding governing bodies and planning.
(1) Develop in consultation with Tribes and Alaska Native entities a plan to include their direct involvement in short and long-range planning of Bureau operated post-secondary schools through the formation of policy making governing boards.
(2) Encourage and defend the right of the Tribes and Alaska Native entities to govern their own internal affairs in all matters relating to education, and their right to determine the equitable and appropriate composition of governing boards at Bureau off-reservation and post-secondary schools.
(h)
Multilingual education.
Provide for a comprehensive multicultural and multilingual educational program including the production and use of instructional materials, culturally appropriate methodologies and teaching and learning strategies that will reinforce, preserve and maintain Indian and Alaska Native languages, cultures, and histories which school boards, Tribes and Alaska Native entities may utilize at their discretion.
(i)
Choice of school.
Afford Indian and Alaska Native students the opportunity to attend local day schools and
other schools of choice and the option to attend boarding schools when the student and parent or guardian determine it is in the student's best interest and consistent with the provisions of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-608) except that, residential schools shall not be used as substitutes for providing adequate local family social services. Each school shall establish its attendance area in cooperation with neighboring schools.
(j)
Tribal education plans.
Assist Tribes and Alaska Native entities at their request in the development of Departments of Education, education codes, and comprehensive education plans.
(k)
Advocacy and coordination.
(1) Serve as an advocate for Indian Tribes and Alaska Native entities in education matters before the Federal, State and local governments.
(2) Assume an assertive role in coordinating comprehensive support for Indian and Alaska Native students internally and from other agencies in education, mental and physical health, juvenile justice, job training, including apprenticeship programs and other related Federal, State and local programs and services.
(3) Serve as an advocate and carry out responsibilities for Indian and Alaska Native students in public and other non-Bureau operated schools consistent with the wishes of the appropriate Indian Tribes and Alaska Native entities, particularly in regard to Impact Aid (Pub. L. 81-874), Johnson-O'Malley, and all Elementary and Secondary Education Act programs.
(l)
Student assessment.
Establish and maintain a program of research and development to provide accurate and culturally specific assessment instruments to measure student performance in cooperation with Tribes and Alaska Native entities.
(m)
Recruitment of Indians.
Adopt procedures to insure that qualified Indian and Alaska Native educators are recruited for positions appropriate to their cultural background and qualifications.
(n)
Priorities in contracts and grants.
Provide financial support through contracts, grants or other funding mechanisms with first priority given to the Tribes and Alaska Native entities, Tribal organizations, Tribally controlled community colleges, and Indian or Alaska Native professional or technical assistance organizations which have the sanction of the benefitting Tribes and Alaska Native entities.
(o)
Community school concept.
Promote the community school concept by encouraging year around multi-use of educational facilities, equipment and services for Tribal, Alaska Native village, and community development.
(p)
Education close to home.
Provide day and residential educational services as close to an Indian or Alaska Native student's home as possible, except when a student elects to attend a school elsewhere for specialized curricular offerings or services.
(q)
Tribal notification and involvement and program flexibility.
(1) Notify Indian Tribes and Alaska Native entities of proposed, pending or final Federal legislation, appropriations, Solicitor's and Attorney General's opinions and court decisions affecting Indian and Alaska Native education for the purposes of information and consultation, providing them ready access at the local level to all evaluations, data records, reports and other relevant information, consistent with the provisions of the Privacy and Freedom of Information Acts.
(2) Implement rules, regulations, procedures, practices, and standards to insure flexibility in the exercise of local Tribal or Alaska Native village options, and provide for input in periodic reviews, evaluations, and revisions to meet changing needs and circumstances.
(r)
Career and higher education.
(1) Ensure to the extent possible that all students who choose to pursue career and post-secondary education, including but not limited to, undergraduate and graduate programs, or preparation for skilled trades, receive adequate academic or other preparation, at the schools of their choice, assuring that students are provided adequate support services to enable them to meet their educational goals.
(2) Extend to Tribes and Alaska Native entities the prerogative of determining those critical professions and fields of study in post-secondary education which are of the highest priority
to meet their economic and cultural goals.
(s)
Planning, maintenance and use of facilities.
(1) Ensure that the needs of the students and Tribal or Alaska Native community will receive first priority in the planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of Bureau schools and residential facilities, rather than other considerations, such as ease of maintenance, and that these facilities assure a supportive environment for learning, living and recreation.
(2) Maintain all school and residential facilities to meet appropriate Tribal, State or Federal safety, health and child care standards. If a conflict exists in these standards, the Federal standard shall be followed; in the absence of a Federal standard, the Tribal standard shall be followed. In case of conflict, any such Tribal health or safety standards shall be no greater than any otherwise applicable State standard.
(t)
Alternative, innovative and exemplary programs.
Vigorously encourage and support alternative, innovative and exemplary programs reflecting Tribal or Alaska Native village specific learning styles, including but not limited to, parent-based early childhood education programs, adult and vocational technical education, library and media services, special education including programs for handicapped, gifted and talented students, summer programs, and career development.
(u)
Training.
Provide support and technical assistance at all levels for the training of duly sanctioned Tribal and Alaska Native education representatives involved in educational decisionmaking, including pre-service and in-service training for educators.
(v)
Tribally controlled community colleges.
Assist Tribes and Alaska Natives in their planning, designing, construction, operation and maintenance of Tribally controlled community colleges, consistent with all appropriate legislation. (See part 41 of this subchapter.)
(w)
Equal opportunity.
Establish and enforce policies and practices to guarantee equal opportunity and open access to all Indian and Alaska Native students in all matters relating to their education programs consistent with the provisions of the Privacy and Freedom of Information Acts.
(x)
Accountability, evaluation of MIS.
(1) Enforce a strict standard of fiscal, programmatic and contract accountability to the Tribes and Alaska Native entities and assist them in the development of their own standards of accountability and carry out annual evaluations of all Bureau-operated or funded education programs.
(2) Provide and make available a computerized management information system which will provide statistical information such as, but not limited to, student enrollment, curriculum, staff, facilities, student assessments and related educational information.
(y)
Accreditation.
(1) Encourage and assist all Bureau and contract schools to attain appropriate State, regional, Tribal or national accreditation.
(2) Assist and promote the establishment of Indian regional and/or national accrediting associations for all levels of Indian Education.
(z)
Eligibility for services.
Serve Indian and Alaska Native students who are recognized by the Secretary of the Interior as eligible for Federal services, because of their status as Indians or Alaska Natives, whose Indian blood quantum is
1/4
degree or more. In the absence of other available facilities, children of non-Indian Bureau personnel or other non-eligibles may be served subject to the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 288 and 289.
(aa)
Appropriations.
Aggressively seek sufficient appropriations to carry out all policies herein established subject to the president's budget and the Department's budgetary process.
§ 32.5
Evaluation of implementation of Pub. L. 95-561.
The Director, Office Indian Education Programs will develop guidelines for evaluating all functional and programmatic responsibilities associated with title XI of the Education Amendments of 1978 (Pub. L. 95-561), and in the January 1, 1981 annual report, as provided in section 1136, of Pub. L. 95-561 include a statement of the specific program toward implementing these policies.
Pt. 33

# PART 33—TRANSFER OF INDIAN EDUCATION FUNCTIONS
Sec.
33.1
Definitions.
33.2
Policy.
33.3
Delegation of authority.
33.4
Redelegation of authority.
33.5
Area education functions.
33.6
Agency education functions.
33.7
Implementing procedures.
33.8
Realignment of area and agency offices.
33.9
Development of procedures.
33.10
Issuance of procedures.

# Authority:
Sec. 1126, Pub. L. 95-561, Education Amendments of 1978 (92 Stat. 2143, 2391; 25 U.S.C. 2006).

# Source:
44 FR 58103, Oct. 9, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 33.1
Definitions.
(a)
Agency
means that organizational unit of the Bureau which provides direct services to the governing body or bodies and members of one or more specified Indian Tribes.
(b)
Early childhood
means education activities serving the 0 to 8 year old child, including pre-natal, child care, kindergarten, homebase, homebound, and special education programs.
(c)
Elementary and secondary education
means those programs serving the child from grade one through grade twelve.
(d)
Operating level
means the organizational level at which direct educational services are performed.
(e)
Personnel directly and substantially involved
means those persons who provide services which affect the operation of Indian education programs, including (but not limited to) school or institution custodial or maintenance personnel, and whose services for Indian education programs require the expenditure of at least 51 percent of the employee's working time.
(f)
Post-secondary
means education programs that are provided for persons past the age for compulsory education to include continuing education, higher education, undergraduate and graduate, career and adult education. As used in this Act, the term Post-Secondary shall include those Bureau of Indian Affairs programs operated at Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute, the Institute of American Indian Arts, and Haskell Indian Junior College, and those operated at Tribally controlled community colleges under Pub. L. 95-471.
§ 33.2
Policy.
It is the policy of the Department of the Interior that:
(a) Indian control of Indian affairs in all matters relating to education shall be facilitated.
(b) Authority to perform education functions shall be delegated directly from the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs to the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs.
(c) Administrative authority shall be compatible with program authorities; and, both shall be delegated to the operating level to assure efficient and effective delivery of education services to Indian children, youth, and adults.
(d) The Director, Office of Indian Education Programs shall supervise the operation of Indian education program personnel at the Arena, Agency, and the three Bureau of Indian Affairs post-secondary institutions.
(e) Indian Education program functions to be performed at the Area office level shall include those dealing with higher education, Johnson-O'Malley aid to non-Bureau schools, off-reservation boarding schools, those education program operations serving tribes from more than one Agency except those at the three post-secondary institutions, on-reservation education functions located at an Agency where no educational personnel are assigned, education contract operations, and adult education.
§ 33.3
Delegation of authority.
The administrative and programmatic authorities of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs pertaining to Indian education functions shall not be delegated to other than the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs. The Assistant Secretary shall publish delegations of authorities to the Director in the Bureau of Indian Affairs Manual after the effective date of these regulations.
§ 33.4
Redelegation of authority.
The authorities of the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs as delegated to
the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs may be redelegated by the Director to a Bureau of Indian Affairs Agency Superintendent for Education, to a Bureau Area Education Programs Director, or to a President of a Bureau of Indian Affairs post-secondary education institution.
§ 33.5
Area education functions.
A Bureau Area Education Programs Director shall perform those Bureau of Indian Affairs education functions related to Johnson-O'Malley aid to non-Bureau schools, higher education, Bureau peripheral dormitories, adult education, off-reservation residential schools, on-reservation functions located at an Agency where no education personnel are assigned, education contract operations, and those education program operations serving Tribes from more than one Agency, except those of the Bureau's post-secondary institutions.
§ 33.6
Agency education functions.
A Bureau Agency Superintendent for Education shall perform those education functions related to elementary and secondary education, early childhood education, peripheral dormitories which have been supervised prior to Pub. L. 95-561, and exceptional education programs as defined in 25 CFR part 32. This section shall not be construed to remove higher education, adult education and/or Johnson-O'Malley programs currently administered at the Agency level. Further, the Director under the authority of § 33.4 will periodically review Area programs such as higher education, adult education, and Johnson-O'Malley for consideration to assign to Agency level administration.
§ 33.7
Implementing procedures.
(a) The Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs shall:
(1) Implement the transfer for Indian education functions from the jurisdiction of Agency Superintendents and Area Office Directors to the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs.
(2) Modify existing descriptions of positions for Area Office Directors, Agency Superintendents, and all other personnel directly and substantially involved with the provisions of education services by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(b) The Director, Office of Indian Education Programs shall:
(1) For Area, Agency, and Bureau of Indian Affairs postsecondary institutional personnel:
(i) Properly list the duties of each employee required to perform functions redelegated by the Director;
(ii) Define the responsibilities for monitoring and evaluating education programs; and
(iii) Exercise supervision of these employees.
(2) Define responsibilities for employees providing technical and coordinating assistance for support services to the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs and his/her subordinates, including procurement, contracting, personnel, and other administrative support areas.
[44 FR 58103, Oct. 9, 1979. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982, as amended at 49 FR 12702, Mar. 30, 1984]
§ 33.8
Realignment of area and agency offices.
The Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs shall implement Bureau of Indian Affairs Area Office and Agency Office reorganizations required to structure these offices consistent with education program activities to be undertaken at those levels.
§ 33.9
Development of procedures.
The Director, Office of Indian Education Programs shall prepare and promulgate procedures to govern the provision of support services by the Bureau of Indian Affairs for the education function. These procedures shall be consistent with existing laws, regulations, Executive Orders, and Departmental policies governing administrative support services. These provisions shall be prepared in consultation with those personnel within the Bureau of Indian Affairs who are responsible to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for providing support services.
§ 33.10
Issuance of procedures.
The Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, directly or through the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, shall issue procedures in the Bureau of Indian Affairs Manual governing the provision of support services to the Bureau's Education Office function.
Pt. 36

# PART 36—MINIMUM ACADEMIC STANDARDS FOR THE BASIC EDUCATION OF INDIAN CHILDREN AND NATIONAL CRITERIA FOR DORMITORY SITUATIONS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
36.1
Purpose, scope, and information collection requirements.
36.2
Applicability.
36.3
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Educational Management
36.10
Standard I—Philosophy and goals.
36.11
Standard II—Administrative requirements.
36.12
Standard III—Program needs assessment.
36.13
Standard IV—Curriculum development.

# Subpart C—Minimum Program of Instruction
36.20
Standard V—Minimum academic programs/school calendar.
36.21
Standard VI—Kindergarten instructional program.
36.22
Standard VII—Elementary instructional program.
36.23
Standard VIII—Junior high/middle school instructional program.
36.24
Standard IX—Secondary instructional program.

# Subpart D—Student Instructional Evaluation
36.30
Standard X—Grading requirements.
36.31
Standard XI—Student promotion requirements.
36.32
Standard XII—Graduation requirements for a high school diploma.

# Subpart E—Instructional Support
36.40
Standard XIII—Library/media program.
36.41
Standard XIV—Textbooks.
36.42
Standard XV—Counseling services.
36.43
Standard XVI—Student activities.

# Subpart F—Evaluation of Educational Standards
36.50
Standard XVII—School program evaluation and needs assessment.
36.51
Standard XVIII—Office of Indian Education Programs and Agency monitoring and evaluation responsibilities.

# Subpart G—Homeliving Programs
36.70
What terms do I need to know?
36.71
What is the purpose of this part?

# Staffing
36.75
What qualifications must homeliving staff possess?
36.76
Who is in charge of all homeliving operations?
36.77
What are the homeliving staffing requirements?
36.78
What are the staffing requirements for homeliving programs offering less than 5 nights service?
36.79
What are the homeliving behavioral staff/student ratio requirements?
36.80
If a school or dormitory has separated boys' and girls' homeliving programs, may the same behavioral staff be used for each program?
36.81
May a homeliving program use support staff or teachers to meet behavioral health staffing requirements?
36.82
May behavioral health professional(s) provide services during the academic school day?
36.83
How many hours can a student be taken out of the academic setting to receive behavioral health services?
36.84
Can a program hire or contract or acquire by other means behavioral health professionals to meet staffing requirements?
36.85
Is a nurse required to be available in the evenings?
36.86
Are there staff training requirements?

# Program Requirements
36.90
What recreation, academic tutoring, student safety, and health care services must homeliving programs provide?
36.91
What are the program requirements for behavioral health services?
36.92
Are there any activities that must be offered by a homeliving program?
36.93
Is a homeliving handbook required?
36.94
What must a homeliving handbook contain?
36.95
What sanitary standards must homeliving programs meet?
36.96
May students be required to assist with daily or weekly cleaning?
36.97
What basic requirements must a program's health services meet?
36.98
Must the homeliving program have an isolation room for ill children?
36.99
Are immunizations required for residential program students?
36.100
Are there minimum requirements for student attendance checks?
36.101
How often must students who have been separated for emergency health or behavioral reasons be supervised?
36.102
What student resources must be provided by a homeliving program?
36.103
What are the requirements for multipurpose spaces in homeliving programs?
36.104
What are the requirements for heating, ventilation, cooling and lighting at dormitories?

# Privacy
36.110
Must programs provide space for storing personal effects?

# Waivers and Accountability
36.111
Can a tribe, tribal governing body, or local school board waive the homeliving standards?
36.112
Can a homeliving program be closed, transferred, consolidated, or substantially curtailed for failure to meet these standards?
36.120
What type of reporting is required to ensure accountability?

# Authority:
Section 502, 25 U.S.C. 2001; section 5101, 25 U.S.C. 2001; Section 1101, 25 U.S.C. 2002; 5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2 and 9; 25 U.S.C. 2901, Title I of P.L. 101-477.

# Source:
50 FR 36816, Sept. 9, 1985, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 36.1
Purpose, scope, and information collection requirements.
(a) The purpose of this rule is to establish minimum academic standards for the basic education of Indian children for Bureau-operated schools and for those Indian-controlled contract schools which adopt these standards and to establish national criteria for dormitory situations for schools operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and for Indian-controlled contract schools operating dormitories.
(b) The information collection requirement contained in § 36.61(a) has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3507 and assigned clearance number 1076-0092. The information is being collected to evaluate waiver request(s) from tribal government(s) and school board(s). The information will be used to ascertain the approval of academic waiver request. The obligation to respond is mandatory under 25 U.S.C. 2001. The information collection requirements contained in §§ 36.71(g), 36.74(f), and 36.76(b) of this rule are not required to be approved by the Office of Management and Budget since less than ten persons or tribes are affected by the information collection requirement of this rule. However, when ten or more persons or tribes become affected by this requirement, the Bureau will submit an approval request.
[50 FR 36816, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 70 FR 21951, Apr. 28, 2005]
§ 36.2
Applicability.
The national criteria for dormitory situations established under subpart G serve as a minimum requirement and are mandatory for all Bureau-operated and Indian-controlled contract schools.
[77 FR 30891, May 24, 2012]
§ 36.3
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Accreditation
means a school has received an official decision by the State(s) department(s) of education, or another recognized agency having official authority, that, in its judgment, the school has met the established standards of quality.
Agency
means the current organizational unit of the Bureau which provides direct services to the governing body or bodies and members of one or more specified Indian tribes.
Agency school board
as defined in sec. 1139(1), Pub. L. 95-561, means a body, the members of which are appointed by the school boards of the schools located within such Agency. The number of such members shall be determined by the Director in consultation with the affected tribes. In Agencies serving a single school, the school board of that school shall function as the Agency school board.
Agency Superintendent for Education
means the Bureau official in charge of education functions at an Agency and to whom the school supervisor(s) and other educators under the Agency's jurisdiction report.
Area Education Programs Administrator
means the Bureau official in charge of
Bureau education programs and functions in a Bureau Area Office and is responsible for off-reservation residential schools, and, in some cases, peripheral dormitories and on-reservation day schools not receiving services from the Agency Superintendent for Education.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
Authentic assessment
means the testing of higher order thinking skills by monitoring performance of tasks requiring analysis, creativity, and application skills in real life situations.
Average daily membership (ADM)
means the aggregate days membership of a given school during a given reporting period divided by the number of days school is in session during this period. Only days on which the students are under the guidance and direction of teachers shall be considered as days in session. The reporting period is generally a given regular school term.
Basic academic skills
means the abilities acquired by observation, study, or experience in mental and/or physical performance (e.g., proficiency in planning and investigating, operational techniques, comprehension, organization, execution, remembrance and application of knowledge to acquire a desired result) basic to the mastery of school work or other activity.
Basic education
means those components of education emphasizing literacy in language arts, mathematics, natural and physical sciences, history, and related social sciences.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
Certification
means the general process by which the State or Agency authorized by the State adjudges and stipulates that an individual meets the established standards which are prerequisite to employment for a teacher or administrator in education.
Competency
means having the requisite abilities, skills, or a specified level of mastery.
Computer literacy
used here means the general range of skills and understanding needed to function effectively in a society increasingly dependent on computer and information technology.
Content area
means the usual school subjects of instruction, such as: Language arts, mathematics, science, social studies, fine arts, practical arts, health, and physical education.
Counselor
means a staff member, including those in both academic and dormitory situations, who helps the students to understand educational, personal, and occupational strengths and limitations; to relate abilities, emotions, and aptitudes to educational and career opportunities; to utilize abilities in formulating realistic plans; and to achieve satisfying personal and social development.
Course of study
means a written guide prepared by administrators, supervisors, consultants, and teachers of a school system or school, as an aid to teaching a given course or an aspect of subject-matter content to a given category of pupil.
Criterion-referenced test
means an achievement test designed to measure specific skills within a subject area. Test results indicate which skills a student has or has not learned.
Days
means calendar days.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Indian Education Programs in the Bureau.
Dormitory
means a facility which provides students boarding and lodging on a temporary residential basis for the purpose of attending a Bureau-operated or Indian-controlled contract or public school.
Dormitory manager
means a staff member who manages the day-to-day, 24-hour operation of one or more dormitories.
Elementary school
is defined as any combination of grades K-8 except when any of these grades are included in the junior high or middle school level.
Exceptional child program
means a program for students who are eligible to receive education and related services as defined by 25 CFR 39.11(i).
Feeder school
means a school whose exiting students are absorbed by a school offering instruction on the next higher grade level.
Formative evaluation
is an evaluation of progress during the implementation of a program. Its purpose is to provide immediate feedback on results to enable modifying the processes used in
order to enhance success and prevent failure.
Goals
means a statement of what the school system is attempting to do to meet the comprehensive educational needs and interests of its pupils, in accordance with its statement of philosophy.
Grade
means the portion of a school program which represents the work of one regular school year; identified by a designation such as kindergarten, grade 1 or grade 10.
Grade level
is a designation applied to that portion of the curriculum which represents the work of one regular school year.
High school
is defined as grades nine through twelve, except when grade nine is included in the junior high or middle school organizational unit.
Higher order thinking skills
(or advanced skills) means skills such as reading comprehension, written composition, and mathematical reasoning. They differ from basic or discrete skills such as phonetic decoding and arithmetic operations.
Indian-controlled contract school
means a school that is operated by a tribal organization and funded under a contract with the Bureau.
Indian student
means a student who is a member of an Indian tribe and is one-quarter (
1/4
) or more degree of Indian blood quantum.
Indian tribe
or
tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Intense residential guidance
means the program for residential students who need special residential services due to one or more of the problems as stated in 25 CFR 39.11(h).
Junior high
or
middle school
is defined as grades seven and eight, but may include grade six when it is not included in the elementary school level and/or grade nine when it is not included in the high school level.
Kindergarten
means a group of students or a class that is organized to provide educational experiences for children for the year immediately preceding the first grade.
Librarian
means a certificated school employee whose principal responsibilities include selection, acquisition, preparation, cataloging, and circulation of books and other printed materials; planning the use of the library by teachers and students; and instructing students in the use of library books and materials, whether the library is maintained separately or as a part of an instructional materials center.
Local school board
when used with respect to a Bureau-operated school means a body chosen in accordance with the laws of the tribe to be served or, in the absence of such laws, the body elected by the parents of the Indian children attending a Bureau-operated school. In schools serving a substantial number of students from different tribes, the members shall be appointed by the governing bodies of the tribes affected and the number of such members shall be determined by the Director in consultation with the affected tribes.
Objectives
means a statement of the general, long-range aims and the specific, short-range aims which indicate what the school is attempting to do to meet the needs of the students in accordance with the philosophy, goals, and policies of the school system.
Paraprofessional
means a staff member who works with and is under the supervision of a professional staff member but who does not have full professional status, e.g., teacher aide. The term denotes a level of knowledge and skills possessed by an individual or required of an individual to perform an assignment. The level of skills is usually at a predetermined minimum level.
Parent
means a natural parent or guardian or a person legally acting as parent.
Peripheral dormitory
is a facility which provides students boarding and lodging during the school year for the purpose of attending a public school.
Regular program student
means all students including those determined to be eligible for services as defined under
the Exceptional Child Program, 25 CFR 39.11(i).
Residential school
means an educational institution in which students are boarded and lodged as well as taught.
Residential Services under Exceptional Child Program
means a program providing specialized residential care as determined by 25 CFR 39.11(i).
School
means an educational institution, including elementary, junior high or middle, high school, peripheral, cooperative, and contract schools serving students in grades Kindergarten through 12 and as further defined under 25 CFR 39.2(q).
School board
means an Agency or local school board.
School day, instructional day,
or
teaching day
is a day on which the school is open and students are under the guidance and direction of teachers in instructional activities where the minimum number of instructional hours are met.
School Supervisor
means the official in charge of a school and/or peripheral dormitory who reports to an Agency School Superintendent or an Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior.
Self-contained class
means a class having the same teacher or team of teachers for all or most of the daily session.
Standard
means the established criterion and/or specified requirement which must be met and maintained.
Summative evaluation
means a systematic analysis of the results or products of a program after it is completed. Its purpose is to determine the extent to which the objectives of the program have or have not been achieved. One form of summative evaluation compares results with those of another “control” program using different procedures. Other forms compare results with past results or predetermined target outcomes.
Teacher
means a certified staff member performing assigned professional activities in guiding and directing the learning experiences of pupils in an instructional situation.
Unit/Unit of instruction
means a major subdivision of instruction generally composed of several topics including content and learning experiences developed around a central focus such as a limited scope of subject matter, a central program, one or more related concepts, one or more related skills, or a combination of these. One unit equals one full year of instruction in a subdivision thereof.
Unit
and
credit
shall be used interchangeably.
[50 FR 36816, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 61765, Dec. 1, 1994]

# Subpart B—Educational Management
§ 36.10
Standard I—Philosophy and goals.
(a) Each school shall develop a written mission statement and philosophy of education that addresses the accumulation of knowledge and development of skills, interests, appreciations, ideals, and attitudes within the school's total educational program. A statement of expected outcomes shall outline what the school is attempting to do to meet the needs and interests of its students and community in accordance with the school's mission statement and philosophy.
(b) The statement of philosophy and goals shall be developed with the involvement of students, parents, lay citizens, school staff, and tribe(s) and shall be formally adopted by the local school board.
(c) The philosophy and goals shall be reviewed annually and revised as necessary by each school.
(d) A copy of the philosophy and goals shall be submitted to the Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate.
(e) Informational provisions shall be developed in the form of a manual, handbook, brochure, or other written document(s) of the minimum academic standards of the school's programs and the basic rules and procedures of the school. The staff, students, and parents shall receive the written document or documents and have same explained to all who request explanation. The topics covered in the document(s) shall include but not be limited to the following:
(1) Statement of philosophy and goals;
(2) Description of how policies are developed and administered;
(3) A brief explanation of curricular offerings;
(4) A copy of student rights handbook;
(5) Basic practices related to:
(i) Grading system;
(ii) Graduation requirements, if applicable;
(iii) Attendance policies;
(iv) Special programs at the school; and
(v) Student activities available for students.
[50 FR 36816, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 61765, Dec. 1, 1994]
§ 36.11
Standard II—Administrative requirements.
(a)
Staffing.
Each school shall, at a minimum, meet the following requirements:
(1) The overall school ratio of regular program students to regular program teachers in self-contained classrooms shall not exceed the following except under the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a)(4) (i) and (ii) of this section. Average daily membership (ADM) shall be used in meeting the following ratios.
Level
Ratio
Kindergarten
20:1
1st grade—3rd grade
22:1
4th grade—high school
25:1
(2) Multi-grade classrooms that cross grade-level boundaries (e.g., K-1, 3-4, etc.) shall use the maximum of the lower grade. In grades K-8, grades shall be consolidated to meet the teacher ratios listed above.
(3) The daily teaching load per teacher in departmentalized classes shall not exceed 150 students (ADM) except in activity type classes such as music and physical education.
(4) Schools exceeding these specific staffing ratios for over 30 consecutive days during one school year shall submit a justification for a request for a waiver to the Director, through the Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate, which may be approved for a period not to exceed one school year and for the following reasons:
(i) Additional classroom space is not available for establishing another class; or
(ii) The school, Agency, Area and Office of Indian Education Programs Applicant Supply File has been exhausted and the required teacher position cannot be filled. However, efforts to fill the vacancy shall be continued.
(5) Each school shall provide, in the absence of a regular teacher, a certified substitute teacher who meets the State substitute teacher qualifications. In the event that such a substitute is not available, coverage will be provided by a school employee designated by the school supervisor. A class cannot have as a teacher an employee without teaching credentials for more than 20 school days during any one school year.
(b)
Written school enrollment and attendance policies.
Each school shall have written school enrollment and attendance policies in compliance with and/or consistent with 25 CFR 31, Federal Schools for Indians, the statutes of the State, and tribal education ordinances.
(c)
Immunization.
School children shall be immunized in accordance with the regulations and requirements of the state in which they attend school or standards of the Indian Health Service.
[50 FR 36816, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 61765, Dec. 1, 1994; 70 FR 21951, Apr. 28, 2005]
§ 36.12
Standard III—Program needs assessment.
The policy and procedures of each school and its curricula shall be developed and revised based on an assessment of educational needs. This needs assessment shall be conducted at least every seven (7) years at the same frequency as required in § 36.50, School Program Evaluation. This assessment shall include at least the following:
(a) A clear statement of student educational goals and objectives. A student educational goal is defined as a statement of the knowledge, skills, attitudes, or concepts students are expected to exhibit upon completion of a
grade level. Student educational objectives are defined as statements of more specific knowledge, skills, attitudes, or concepts students must exhibit in order to achieve the goal.
(b) The collection of appropriate data from which valid determinations, judgments, and decisions can be made with respect to the status of the educational program, e.g.,
(1) Perceptions of the parents, tribes, educators, and the students with regard to the relevance and importance of the goals.
(2) The extent to which educational goals and objectives have been achieved.
(3) The data developed as a result of the evaluation outlined in § 36.50 School Program Evaluation.
(c) A statement of educational needs which identifies the difference between the current status of students and the desired goals for the students.
(d) A plan of action to remediate assessed needs.
§ 36.13
Standard IV—Curriculum development.
(a) Each school shall implement an organized program of curriculum development involving certified and non-certified staff and shall provide the opportunity for involvement by members of the local community.
(b) Curriculum development program activities shall be based on an analysis of school programs and shall be related to needs assessment and evaluation.
(c) Each school shall involve staff and provide the opportunity for involvement by the tribal community in planning programs, objectives, and activities which meet student/teacher needs.

# Subpart C—Minimum Program of Instruction
§ 36.20
Standard V—Minimum academic programs/school calendar.
(a) If an emergency arises from an uncontrollable circumstance during the school day which results in the dismissal of students by the school administration, the day may be counted as a school day provided that three-fourths of the instructional hours are met.
(b) The educational program shall include multi-culture and multi-ethnic dimensions designed to enable students to function effectively in a pluralistic society.
(1) The school's language arts program shall assess the English and native language abilities of its students and provide instruction that teaches and/or maintains both the English and the primary native language of the school population. Programs shall meet local tribal approval.
(2) The school program shall include aspects of the native culture in all curriculum areas. Content shall meet local tribal approval.
(3) The school program shall assess the learning styles of its students and provide instruction based upon that assessment. The method for assessing learning styles shall be determined at the local level.
(4) The school program shall provide for at least one field trip per child per year to broaden social and academic experiences.
(c) All intraschool programs (e.g., library, instructional labs, physical education, music, etc.) which are directly related to or affect student instruction shall provide services from the beginning of the school term through the final class period at the close of the school term.
[50 FR 36816, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 61765, Dec. 1, 1994; 70 FR 21951, Apr. 28, 2005]
§ 36.21
Standard VI—Kindergarten instructional program.
(a) The curriculum for kindergarten shall provide children with experiences which emphasize language development, native language where necessary as determined by 25 CFR 39.11(g), and performance of the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. Such programs shall assist children in developing positive feelings toward themselves and others.
(b) A kindergarten instructional program shall include but not be limited to:
(1) Language (observing, listening, speaking).
(2) Exploration of the environment (number, space and time relationships, natural science).
(3) Psychomotor and socialization development.
(4) Development of imaginative and creative tendencies.
(5) Health education inclusive of the requirements contained in the Act of May 20, 1886, 24 Stat. 69.
§ 36.22
Standard VII—Elementary instructional program.
(a) The elementary instruction programs, grades one through six, shall include but need not be limited to:
(1) Language arts.
(2) Mathematics.
(3) Social studies.
(4) Sciences.
(5) Fine arts.
(6) Physical education.
(b) Each school shall integrate the following content areas into its curriculum:
(1) Career awareness,
(2) Environmental and safety education,
(3) Health education (includes requirements contained in 24 Stat. 69),
(4) Metric education, and
(5) Computer literacy.
§ 36.23
Standard VIII—Junior high/middle school instructional program.
(a) The instructional program shall reflect the school's philosophy and the needs of the students and the community. It shall be part of a progressive development that begins in the elementary program which precedes it and continues to the secondary program which follows.
(b) The curriculum shall include the following required instructional content areas at each grade level but need not be limited to:
(1)
Language arts.
One unit shall be required of each student every year.
(2)
Social studies.
One unit shall be required of each student every year.
(3)
Mathematics.
One unit shall be required of each student every year.
(4)
Science.
One unit shall be required of each student every year.
(5)
Fine arts and practical arts.
One unit each shall be required of each student in the junior high/middle school instructional program.
(6)
Computer literacy.
One unit shall be required of each student in the junior high/middle school instructional program.
(7)
Physical education.
One unit shall be required of each student in the junior high/middle school instructional program.
(c) The following content areas shall be integrated into the curriculum.
(1) Career exploration and orientation.
(2) Environmental and safety education.
(3) Metric education.
(4) Consumer economics (including personal finances).
(5) Health education (includes meeting the requirements contained in 24 Stat. 69).
(d) Languages other than English are encouraged to be offered as a content area beginning at junior high/middle school level.
(e) Student enrollment in any laboratory or vocational exploration class shall be consistent with applicable health and safety standards.
§ 36.24
Standard IX—Secondary instructional program.
(a) The secondary instructional program shall reflect the philosophy of the student, tribe, community, and school, and an awareness of the changing world.
(b) The secondary instructional curriculum shall include the following content areas:
(1) Language arts (communication skills).
(2) Sciences.
(3) Mathematics.
(4) Social studies.
(5) Fine arts and practical arts.
(6) Physical education.
(7) Languages other than English.
(8) Driver education. (See guidelines available from the applicable State Department of Education.)
(9)
Vocational education.
Curriculum shall be designed and directly related to actual occupational trends (national, regional, and local) and to introduce and familiarize students with various occupations in technology, industry and business, as well as required
special skills and the training requisites. Programs shall be directed toward assisting students in making career choices and developing consumer skills and may include the following:
(i) Vocational exploration,
(ii) Vocational skill development, and
(iii) School/on-the-job cooperative education programs.
(c) The following shall be integrated into the curriculum:
(1) Consumer economics (including personal finances),
(2) Metric education,
(3) Safety education, and
(4) Health education. (In addition, the program shall meet the requirements contained in 24 Stat. 69.)
(d) The high school program shall provide program coordination with feeder schools, career direction, and preparation for the student entering independent living through employment, post-secondary education, and/or marriage.
(e) Yearly class schedules shall take into account the graduation requirements of each student.
(f) Student enrollment in any laboratory or vocational class shall be consistent with applicable health and safety standards.
(g) Schools are encouraged to provide alternative programs that lead to high school completion for secondary students who do not function successfully in the regular academic setting.
[50 FR 36816, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 61765, Dec. 1, 1994]

# Subpart D—Student Instructional Evaluation
§ 36.30
Standard X—Grading requirements.
(a) Each school shall implement a uniform grading system which assesses a student's mastery of the prescribed objectives of the courses of study undertaken. The mastery of prescribed course objectives shall be the primary measure of academic attainment for reporting student grades on report cards.
(b) The information derived from student instructional evaluations shall be shared with the student and with the parents and shall be used to give teachers and students direction for subsequent learning activities.
(c) Parent/teacher and parent/teacher/student conferences focused on the student's instructional progress and development shall be held, where feasible and practical, to provide an additional means of communication between home and school. Residential schools may meet this standard by documenting the communication of student grades on report cards to parents.
(d) Each school shall issue a report card to parents of students who are under the age of eighteen (18) and to students eighteen (18) years of age and older on a regular basis, but not less than four (4) times yearly. The report card shall include, but not be limited to, the following sections:
(1) Recommendations and probable promotion status;
(2) Appropriate signatures and request for return of report cards; and
(3) Student attendance record.
(e) A summary of each year's final card shall become part of the student's permanent school record.
§ 36.31
Standard XI—Student promotion requirements.
Each school shall establish and implement a promotion policy which shall be submitted to and approved by the local school board and Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate. The requirements shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(a) Each grade level or equivalent shall have a minimum criteria for student promotion based primarily on measurable mastery of the instructional objectives.
(b) Criterion-referenced tests that evaluate student skills shall be utilized for measuring the mastery of instructional objectives. The evaluation results shall form the basis for the promotion of each student.
(c) A student who has not participated, either directly or through approved alternative instructional methods or programs, in a minimum of 160 instructional days per academic term or 80 instructional days per semester without a written excused absence shall not be promoted. A school board
or a school committee may review a promotion decision and, if warranted due to compelling and/or extenuating circumstances, rescind in writing such action on a case-by-case basis. Alternative instructional methods shall be submitted in writing for approval by the Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate.
§ 36.32
Standard XII—Graduation requirements for a high school diploma.
Graduation requirements contained under this section shall be applied beginning with the graduating class of the 1987-88 school year.
(a) Satisfactory completion of a minimum number of units shall be the measure for the issuance of a high school diploma.
(b) To graduate, a student shall earn 20 units in a four year high school program unless the state in which the school is located exceeds these requirements, in which case the state's requirements shall apply; fifteen (15) units shall be required as follows:
(1) Language arts—four (4) units.
(2) Mathematics—three (3) units.
(3) Social studies—three (3) units.
(i) One (1) unit in United States history;
(ii) One-half (
1/2
) unit in civics/government;
(iii) One-half (
1/2
) unit in tribal history/government;
(iv) One-half (
1/2
) unit in Indian studies; and
(v) One-half (
1/2
) unit in any other social studies;
(4) Science—two (2) units.
(i) One (1) unit in the general science area.
(ii) One (1) unit in laboratory science areas, i.e., chemistry, physics, biology, zoology, laboratory anatomy.
(5) Physical education—one (1) unit.
(6) Practical arts—one (1) unit. Credit in any vocational course may also be used to satisfy this required unit.
(7) Fine arts—one (1) unit. Music, art, dance, drama, theatre, and other fine arts courses may be used to satisfy this required unit. These are minimum requirements; local schools may establish academic or vocational requirements beyond those prescribed by these standards.
(c) A school with an average enrollment of fewer than 75 students may offer subjects in alternate years. If schools use this pattern, alternating pairs of subjects shall be listed and approved by the Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate.
(d) Credits earned through approved correspondence or extension study may be accepted if such credits are from schools approved or accredited by the state in which they are located or by a college or university which is regionally accredited for such purposes.
(e) Students who successfully complete the requirements of the High School Proficiency Examination in the State in which the school is located shall receive an endorsement so stating on their diplomas.

# Subpart E—Instructional Support
§ 36.40
Standard XIII—Library/media program.
(a) Each school shall provide a library/media program which shall, as a minimum, meet the applicable state and/or regional standards, but shall not be limited to these, and shall include the following:
(1) A written set of instructional and service objectives shall be established that is integrated and consistent with the school's educational goals and philosophy. The librarian or educational media specialist, with students and staff, shall set objectives based on assessed academic and residential needs. The program and services will be evaluated yearly by the principal and the librarian or educational media specialist to determine the degree to which all objectives have been met.
(2) A written policy for the selection of materials and equipment shall be developed by a library committee in collaboration with the librarian and be approved by the school board. The collection of materials shall include as a minimum the following:
(i) A collection of books suitable for the range of student abilities and interests being served in the following ADM ratios.
(A) Elementary K-6, 15 books per student
(B) Middle 7-8, 12 books per student
(C) Secondary 9-12, 10 books per student
It is required that materials pertaining to Indian Tribes and/or Alaskan Natives be integrated within this basic collection.
(ii) Eight (8) to 12 percent of the basic collection must be composed of reference books, currently relevant and in a state of good physical condition, for practical use. Single copies of the principal textbooks used to complement instruction shall be in the collection, but textbooks cannot be counted toward this standard.
(iii) A periodical collection, suitable for the range of student abilities and interests being served, consisting of one (1) periodical for every ten (10) students, shall be maintained. Schools of over 200 will have a base collection of 20 periodicals.
(iv) A professional collection for the school staff shall be developed and maintained by the librarian in cooperation with a faculty committee.
(v) A variety of audio-visual materials, suitable for the range of instruction being provided, of at least 750 items or five (5) items for each student, whichever is larger, and inclusive of materials located in the classrooms shall be maintained. This category includes some of each of the following: Tactile objects, globes, models, maps, films, film-strips, microforms, slides, audio and video tapes, recordings, transparencies and graphics, and the equipment to use all of these. Multiple items within a specific set of materials will be counted as separate items.
(3) There shall be a library media center serviced by a librarian. Schools with fewer than 200 students are encouraged, wherever feasible, to cooperate in sharing librarian resources. Schools within an Agency and/or Area may cooperatively share the costs and services of a librarian who shall facilitate sharing of the combined available resources among the cooperating schools in accordance with the following ratios:

# School Enrollment (ADM)
Up to 100—
1/5
time librarian
101-200—
1/5
time librarian and
1/2
time library aide or 20 hours of library activity
201-400—1 full-time librarian or
2/5
time librarian provided the school has a full-time library aide
401 + —1 full-time librarian and a full-time library aide
(4) All libraries must conduct an annual inventory of available books, materials, and equipment in accordance with the acquisitions and selection policies.
§ 36.41
Standard XIV—Textbooks.
(a) Each school shall establish a textbook review committee composed of teachers, parents, and students, and school board members. Appointment to the textbook review committee shall be subject to school board approval.
(b) The textbook review committee shall establish a procedure and criteria for the annual review of textbooks and other materials used to complement instruction. The criteria shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) The textbook content shall meet the course objectives which are within the adopted school curriculum.
(2) The textbooks shall, as much as possible, reflect cultures accurately.
(3) The textbooks shall be current, in good physical condition, and varied in reading levels.
(c) Each school shall equitably distribute instructional materials to all classrooms. Each school shall inventory all property and equipment annually prior to requisitioning additional materials. Copies of the inventory shall be kept on file by the school staff.
§ 36.42
Standard XV—Counseling services.
Each school shall offer student counseling services concerned with physical, social, emotional, intellectual, and vocational growth for each individual. Counseling services shall be included in a school-wide assessment program.
(a) Each Agency and Area, as appropriate, shall institute and supervise an assessment program for its schools in order to provide for the objective assessment of student academic performance. Required formal tests shall be administered annually to all regular program students in grades 4, 8, and 12. (The testing of special education and
gifted/talented students shall be in accordance with respective regulations.) If required by state certification standards, schools may use the state mandated academic achievement tests and accompanying requirements. These formal tests and their subtest contents, as well as the test-related procedures, shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) Each Spring, schools shall conduct testing for grades 4, 8, and 12 using a current version of a standardized academic achievement test based upon the national assessment standards designed to assess higher order thinking skills. All schools shall keep a current record, with the Office of Indian Education Programs, of the test the school administers each Spring and the testing dates.
(2) Schools shall use some form of performance-based or authentic assessment in addition to standardized achievement testing.
(3) Each school shall report the summative results of its assessment program to its respective Agency or Area, as appropriate, and its school board.
(4) Parents/guardians shall be informed of their children's assessment results and provided with an explanation and interpretation to ensure adequate understanding of the results.
(5) Each school's instructional program shall establish an ongoing student academic assessment program to ensure that defined assessment procedures are in place. The program shall include regular training in basic assessment procedures and routines for all teachers and other staff involved in student assessment.
(6) Each Agency and Area, as appropriate, shall report the results of each school's formal Spring tests to the Office of Indian Education Programs by August 1 of each year. Summative information from performance-based and authentic assessments shall be reported at the same time.
(b) Each counseling program shall provide the following:
(1) Each school having a minimum school ADM of 200 students shall make provisions for the full-time professional services of a counselor, and each school enrolling fewer than 200 students shall make provisions for a part-time professional counselor.
(2) The counselors shall be familiar with the unique tribal, social, and economic characteristics of students.
(3) The counseling program shall contain the following:
(i) A written referral procedure;
(ii) Counseling techniques and documentation procedures to provide for the career, academic, social, and personal needs of the students which are based on the cultural beliefs and values of the students being served;
(iii) Preventative and crisis counseling on both individual and group bases;
(iv) Confidentiality and security of counseling records for each student; and
(v) Design and implementation of orientation programs to facilitate the pupil's transition from elementary to junior high/middle school and from junior high/middle school to high school.
(vi) Each junior or middle school and high school student shall receive academic counseling a minimum of twice yearly during which time the counselor shall assist the student in developing a written academic and career plan based on ability, aptitude, and interests. Additionally, counselors will assist high school students in selecting courses which satisfy the school's and the state's graduation requirements and the student's academic and career plan. Further, seniors will be given aid in completing registration and/or financial assistance applications for either vocational or academic post-secondary institutions.
(vii) Each high school counseling program shall be required to have on file for each student a planned academic program of studies which is available from the regular course offerings of the school to meet the student's career objectives and which will show that the student has received counseling.
[50 FR 36816, Sept. 9, 1985, as amended at 59 FR 61766, Dec. 1, 1994]
§ 36.43
Standard XVI—Student activities.
All schools shall provide and maintain a well-balanced student activities program based on assessment of both
student and program needs. Each activity program shall help develop leadership abilities and provide opportunities for student participation but not be limited to activities that include special interest clubs, physical activities, student government, and cultural affairs. The activity program shall be an integral part of the overall educational program.
(a) All student activities shall be required to have qualified sponsors and be approved by the school supervisor, and the school board shall approve the overall activity plan. A qualified sponsor is a professional staff member of the school that is given responsibility to provide guidance or supervision for student activities.
(b) A plan of student activity operations shall be submitted, by each activity at the beginning of each school year, to the school supervisor. The plan will include the purpose, structure, coordination, and planned types of fund-raising activities.
(c) School may participate in interscholastic sports and activities on an informal or formal basis. On an informal basis, the Bureau-operated schools will coordinate with other schools in setting up a schedule of sports and games. Schools that participate in state-recognized leagues will abide by those state rules regulating inter-school competition.
(d) Until comparable competitive opportunities are provided to all students, regardless of sex, no student shall be barred from participation in interscholastic competition in noncontact sports except on the basis of individual merit.
(e) Residential schools shall plan and provide an intramural program for all students. The program shall include a variety of scholastic and sport activities.
(f) Students shall be involved only in activities which are sanctioned by the school.
(g) All student activities involved only in fund raising are required to establish a school/student activity bank account following school/student banking procedures outlined under 25 CFR 31.7. All student activity accounts shall be audited annually.
(h) The school shall provide for the safety and welfare of students participating in school-sponsored activities.
(i) Each sponsor of a student activity will be given orientation and training covering the responsibilities of a sponsor by the school supervisor.

# Subpart F—Evaluation of Educational Standards
§ 36.50
Standard XVII—School program evaluation and needs assessment.
Each school shall complete a formal, formative evaluation at least once every seven (7) years beginning no later than the second complete school year following the effective date of this part. Schools shall follow state and/or regional accreditation, or accreditation requirements equal to the state in which a school is located. Each school shall follow the prescribed evaluation cycle. The primary purpose of this evaluation will be to determine the effects and quality of school programs and to improve the operations and services of the school programs.
(a) Each school's evaluation design or model will provide objective and quantitative analysis of each area to be evaluated. The analysis shall include product and process evaluation methods. The areas to be reviewed will include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) School philosophy and objectives.
(2) Administrative and organizational requirements.
(3) Program planning and implementation.
(4) Curriculum development and instruction.
(5) Primary education.
(6) Program of studies for elementary, junior high/middle, and high schools.
(7) Grading requirements.
(8) Promotion requirements.
(9) High school graduation requirements.
(10) Library/media.
(11) Textbooks and other instructional materials.
(12) Counseling services.
(13) Medical and health services.
(14) Student activities.
(15) Transportation services.
(16) Staff certification and performance.
(17) Facilities (school plant).
(18) Parent and community concerns.
(19) School procedures and policies.
(20) School board operations.
(b) The Director, within six (6) months from the effective date of this part, shall distribute to each school, Agency or Area, as appropriate, a standardized needs assessment and evaluation instrument with guidelines for developing and applying a locally appropriate evaluation model for carrying out the requirements of this standard.
§ 36.51
Standard XVIII—Office of Indian Education Programs and Agency monitoring and evaluation responsibilities.
(a) The Office of Indian Education Programs shall monitor and evaluate the conformance of each Agency or Area, as appropriate, and its schools with the requirements of this part. In addition, it shall annually conduct onsite monitoring at one-third of the Agencies and Areas, thereby monitoring onsite each Agency and/or Area at least once every three (3) years. Within 45 days of the onsite visit, the Director shall issue to each Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate, a written report summarizing the monitoring findings and ordering, as necessary, required actions to correct noted deficiencies.
(b) Each Agency or Area, as appropriate, in conjunction with its school board shall monitor and evaluate the conformance of its school with the requirements of this part through an annual onsite evaluation involving one-third of the schools annually, thereby monitoring onsite each school at least once every three (3) years. Within 30 days of the onsite visit, the Agency Superintendent for Education or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate, shall issue to the local school supervisor and local school board a written report summarizing the findings and ordering, as necessary, required actions to correct noted deficiencies.
(c) Schools, Agencies, and Areas shall keep such records and submit to the responsible official or designee accurate reports at such times, in such form, and containing such information as determined by that official to be necessary to ascertain conformance with the requirements of this part.
(d) Schools, Agencies, and Areas shall permit access for examination purposes by the responsible official, or any duly authorized designee, to any school records and other sources of information which are related or pertinent to the requirements of this part.
(e) The Office of Indian Education Programs, Agency Superintendent for Education, or Area Education Programs Administrator, as appropriate, shall annually conduct a summative evaluation to assess the degree to which each Bureau educational policy and administrative procedure assists or hinders schools in complying with the requirements of this part. This will include, but not be limited to, the following actions:
(1) Evaluate current policies and practices not related to this part and the effects thereof on the amount of time and resources required which otherwise would be available for these standards;
(2) Modify any policies and practices which interfere with or compromise a school's capability to achieve and maintain these standards;
(3) Invite non-Federal agencies to evaluate the effects current policies and procedures have had on complying with the requirements of this part; and
(4) Submit annually to the Director a copy of the summative evaluation.

# Subpart G—Homeliving Programs

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 13; 25 U.S.C. 2008; Pub. L. 107-110 (115 Stat. 1425).

# Source:
72 FR 68498, Dec. 5, 2007, unless otherwise noted.
§ 36.70
What terms do I need to know?
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
Behavioral health professional
means a State licensed or State certified Social Worker, School Counselor, Drug and Alcohol Counselor, School Psychologist, or School Psychometrist responsible for coordinating a broad range of needs including:
(1) Support groups;
(2) Individual counseling;
(3) Crisis intervention;
(4) Preventive activities; and
(5) Coordination of referrals and outside services with appropriate providers.
Behavioral Health Program
means a homeliving based service designed to decrease barriers to learning or increase positive, personal well-being by:
(1) Providing early intervention services, coordinating crisis intervention and prevention services;
(2) Promoting a positive social and emotional environment;
(3) Reducing the incidence of problems; and
(4) Referring students with behavioral needs that require professional medical care to an appropriate residential care facility.
Behavioral health services
means the services provided by a school behavioral health program as defined in this section.
Homeliving Manager
means the employee responsible for direct supervision of the homeliving program staff and students.
Homeliving Program
means a program that provides room and board in a boarding school or dormitory to residents who are either:
(1) Enrolled in and are current members of a public school in the community in which they reside; or
(2) Members of the instructional program in the same boarding school in which they are counted as residents and:
(i) Are officially enrolled in the residential program of a Bureau-operated or funded school; and
(ii) Are actually receiving a homeliving program provided to all students who are provided room and board in a boarding school or dormitory.
Homeliving Program Staff
means the employee(s) responsible for direct supervision of students in the homeliving area.
Homeliving Supervisor
means the employee with overall administrative responsibility for supervising students, programs, and personnel in the homeliving area.
§ 36.71
What is the purpose of this part?
The purpose of this part is to establish standards for homeliving programs.

# Staffing
§ 36.75
What qualifications must homeliving staff possess?
(a) Homeliving staff must possess the qualifications shown in the following table:
Position
Required training
(1) Homeliving Supervisor
Must be qualified based on size and complexity of the school, but at minimum possess a bachelor's degree.
(2) Homeliving Manager
Must be qualified based on the size and complexity of the student body but must at a minimum have an associate's degree no later than 2008.
(3) Homeliving Program Staff
Must have at least 32 post-secondary semester hours (or 48 quarter hours) in an applicable academic discipline, including fields related to working with children, such as, child development, education, behavioral sciences and cultural studies.
(b) A person employed as a homeliving program staff:
(1) Should meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section by the 2009-2010 school year; and
(2) May, upon showing good cause, petition the school supervisor (or the homeliving supervisor for peripheral dorms) for a waiver from the new qualifications.
§ 36.76
Who is in charge of all homeliving operations?
One staff member who has the authority to ensure the successful functioning of all phases of the homeliving program should be designated as in charge of all homeliving operations. All staff should be advised of the lines of authority through an organizational chart approved by the local board responsible for operations of the homeliving program.
§ 36.77
What are the homeliving staffing requirements?
Homeliving programs must meet the staffing requirements of this section.
(a) Effective with the 2009-2010 school year, each homeliving program must maintain the following student minimum supervisory requirements on weekdays:
Grade level
Time of day
Ratio
Elementary (Grade 1-6)
Morning
1:20.
During school
As school needs.
Evening
1:20.
Night
1:40.
High School (Gr. 7-12)
Morning
1:20.
During school
As school needs.
Evening
1:30.
Night
1:50.
(b) The following staffing ratios apply on weekends:
Grade level
Time of day
Ratio
Elementary (Grade 1-6)
Morning/day
1:20.
Evening
1:20.
Night
1:40.
High School (Gr. 7-12)
Morning/day
1:40.
Evening
1:40.
Night
1:50.
§ 36.78
What are the staffing requirements for homeliving programs offering less than 5 nights service?
For homeliving programs providing less than 5 nights service, the staffing levels from 36.77 apply. To fill this requirement, the program must use only employees who work a minimum of 20 hours per week.
§ 36.79
What are the homeliving behavioral professional staff/student ratio requirements?
Behavioral health professional(s) is necessary in homeliving programs to address issues, such as abuse, neglect, trauma, cultural conflict, and lack of school success. Each homeliving program must provide a minimum of one half-time behavioral health professional for every 50 students.
(a) The program may fill the staffing requirements of this section by using contract services, other agencies (including the Indian Health Service) or private/nonprofit volunteer service organizations.
(b) Off-reservation homeliving programs should consider providing one full-time behavioral health professional for every 50 students.
(c) For purposes of this section, a one half-time behavioral health professional is one that works for the homeliving program a minimum of 20 hours per week.
(d) For purposes of this section, in instances where the behavioral health services are obtained through other programs, the behavioral health professional must be available at the request of the homeliving program.
§ 36.80
If a school or dormitory has separated boys' and girls' homeliving programs, may the same behavioral professional be used for each program?
Yes, a program may use the same behavioral professional for both boys' and girls' programs. However, behavioral health staffing requirements are based on the combined enrollment during the homeliving count period.
§ 36.81
May a homeliving program use support staff or teachers to meet behavioral health staffing requirements?
No, a homeliving program must not use support staff or teachers to meet behavioral health staffing requirements. The only exception is if the individual support staff employee or teacher has the appropriate behavioral health license or certification.
§ 36.82
May behavioral health professional(s) provide services during the academic school day?
Behavioral health professional(s) must average at least 75 percent of their work hours with students in their dormitories. These work hours must occur outside of the academic school day, except in emergency situations as deemed by the administrative head of the homeliving program or designee. The purpose of this requirement is to maximize contact time with students in their homeliving setting.
§ 36.83
How many hours can a student be taken out of the academic setting to receive behavioral health services?
A student may spend no more than 5 hours per week out of the academic setting to receive behavioral health services from the homeliving behavioral health professional(s), except for emergency situations.
§ 36.84
Can a program hire or contract or acquire by other means behavioral health professionals to meet staffing requirements?
A program may hire or contract behavioral health professionals to meet
staffing requirements or acquire such services by other means such as through a Memorandum of Understanding with other programs.
(a) At least one individual must be a licensed or certified school counselor or a social worker who is licensed/certified to practice at the location where the services are provided.
(b) For additional staffing, other individuals with appropriate certifications or licenses are acceptable to meet staffing requirements.
§ 36.85
Is a nurse required to be available in the evenings?
No, a program is not required to make a nurse (LPN or RN) available in the evenings. However, this is encouraged for homeliving programs with an enrollment greater than 300 or for programs that are more than 50 miles from available services.
§ 36.86
Are there staff training requirements?
(a) All homeliving program staff as well as all employees that supervise students participating in homeliving services and activities must have the appropriate certification or licensing requirements up to date and on file. Programs must provide annual and continuous professional training and development appropriate to the certification and licensing requirements.
(b) All homeliving program staff as well as all employees who supervise students participating in homeliving services and activities must receive annual training in the topics set out in this section before the first day of student occupancy for the year.
(1) First Aid/Safety/Emergency
Crisis Preparedness;
(2) CPR—Automated External Defibrillator;
(3) Student Checkout Policy;
(4) Confidentiality (Health Information Privacy Act and the Family Education Right to Privacy Act.);
(5) Medication Administration;
(6) Student Rights;
(7) Child Abuse Reporting Requirements and Protection Procedures; and
(8) Suicide Prevention.
(c) Homeliving staff as well as all employees that supervise students participating in homeliving services and activities must be given the following training annually:
(1) De-escalation/Conflict Resolution;
(2) Substance Abuse Issues;
(3) Ethics;
(4) Parenting skills/Child Care;
(5) Special Education and Working with Students with Disabilities;
(6) Student Supervision Skills;
(7) Child Development (recognizes various stages of development in the student population);
(8) Basic Counseling Skills; and
(9) Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP).

# Program Requirements
§ 36.90
What recreation, academic tutoring, student safety, and health care services must homeliving programs provide?
All homeliving programs must provide for appropriate student safety, academic tutoring, recreation, and health care services for their students, as deemed necessary by the local school board or homeliving board.
§ 36.91
What are the program requirements for behavioral health services?
(a) The homeliving behavioral health program must make available the following services:
(1) Behavioral Health Screening/Assessment;
(2) Diagnosis;
(3) Treatment Plan;
(4) Treatment and Placement;
(5) Evaluation; and
(6) Record of Services (if applicable, in coordination with the student's Individual Education Plan).
(b) Each homeliving behavioral health program must have written procedures for dealing with emergency behavioral health care issues.
(c) Parents or guardians may opt out of any non-emergency behavioral health services by submitting a written request.
(d) Parents or guardians must be consulted before a child is prescribed behavioral health.
(e) Medication in a non-emergency situation.
§ 36.92
Are there any activities that must be offered by a homeliving program?
Yes, a homeliving program must make available the following activities:
(a) One hour per day of scheduled, structured physical activity Monday through Thursday, and two hours of scheduled physical activities on the weekends for any students who are in residence on the weekends;
(b) One hour per day of scheduled, structured study at least four days per week for all students, and additional study time for students who are failing any classes;
(c) Tutoring during study time;
(d) Native language or cultural activities; and
(e) Wellness program that may include character, health, wellness, and sex education.
§ 36.93
Is a homeliving handbook required?
Yes, each program must publish a homeliving handbook, which may be incorporated into a general student handbook. During the first week the students and staff are in the dormitory, the homeliving program must:
(a) Provide each student with a copy of the handbook that contains all the provisions in 36.94;
(b) Provide all staff, students, and parents or guardians with a current and updated copy of student rights and responsibilities;
(c) Conduct an orientation for all students on the handbook and student rights and responsibilities; and
(d) Ensure that all students, school staff, and to the extent possible, parents and guardians confirm in writing that they have received a copy of and understand the homeliving handbook.
§ 36.94
What must a homeliving handbook contain?
A homeliving handbook must contain all of the following, and may include additional information:
(a) Mission/Vision Statement;
(b) Discipline Policy;
(c) Parent/Student Rights and Responsibilities;
(d) Confidentiality;
(e) Sexual Harassment Policy;
(f) Violence/Bullying Policy;
(g) Homeliving Policies and Procedures;
(h) Services Available;
(i) Personnel and Position Listing;
(j) Emergency Procedures and Contact Numbers;
(k) Bank Procedures;
(l) Transportation Policy;
(m) Check-Out Procedures;
(n) Dress Code;
(o) Drug/Alcohol Policy;
(p) Computer Usage Policy;
(q) Medication Administration Policy and Procedure; and
(r) Isolation/Separation Policy.
§ 36.95
What sanitary standards must homeliving programs meet?
Each homeliving program must meet all of the following standards:
(a) Restrooms, showers, and common areas must be cleaned daily;
(b) Rooms must be cleaned daily;
(c) Linens must be changed and cleaned weekly;
(d) Linens are to be provided;
(e) Basic Toiletries must be provided; and
(f) Functional washing machines and dryers must be provided.
§ 36.96
May students be required to assist with daily or weekly cleaning?
Yes, students can be required to assist with daily or weekly cleaning. However, the ultimate responsibility of cleanliness rests with the homeliving supervisor and local law or rules regarding chemical use must be followed.
§ 36.97
What basic requirements must a program's health services meet?
(a) A homeliving program must make available basic medical, dental, vision, and other necessary health services for all students residing in the homeliving program, subject to agreements between the BIE and the Indian Health Service or between a tribally-operated homeliving program and the Indian Health Service or tribal health program.
(b) A homeliving program must have written procedures for dealing with emergency health care issues.
(c) Parents or guardians may opt out of any non-emergency services by submitting a written request.
(d) The homeliving supervisor or designee must act
in loco parentis
when the parent or guardian cannot be found.
§ 36.98
Must the homeliving program have an isolation room for ill children?
Yes, the homeliving program must have an isolation room(s) available for ill students. The isolation room (or rooms, if needed) must be made available for use by students with contagious conditions. Contagious boys and girls should have separate rooms. The isolation room(s) should have a separate access to shower and restroom facilities. Students isolated for contagious illness must be supervised as frequently and as closely as the circumstances and protocols require, but at least every 30 minutes.
§ 36.99
Are immunizations required for residential program students?
Each student must have all immunizations required by State, local, or tribal governments before being admitted to a homeliving program. Annual flu shots are not required, but are encouraged.
§ 36.100
Are there minimum requirements for student attendance checks?
Yes, there are minimum requirements for student attendance checks as follows:
(a) All students must be physically accounted for four times daily;
(b) Each count must be at least two hours apart;
(c) If students are on an off-campus activity, physical accounts of students must be made at least once every two hours or at other reasonable times depending on the activity;
(d) At night all student rooms should be physically checked at least once every hour;
(e) If a student is unaccounted for, the homeliving program must follow its established search procedures; and
(f) When homeliving staff is aware of a student who is going to be absent from school, the homeliving program is required to notify the school.
§ 36.101
How often must students who have been separated for emergency health or behavioral reasons be supervised?
Students who have been separated for emergency behavioral or health reasons must be supervised as frequently and as closely as the circumstances and protocols require. No student will be left unsupervised for any period until such factors as the student's health based on a medical assessment, the safety of the student, and any other applicable guidance for dealing with behavior or health emergencies are considered.
§ 36.102
What student resources must be provided by a homeliving program?
The following minimum resources must be available at all homeliving programs:
(a) Library resources such as access to books and resource materials, including school libraries and public libraries which are conveniently available;
(b) A copy of each textbook used by the academic program or the equivalent for peripheral dorms; and
(c) Reasonable access to a computer with Internet access to facilitate homework and study.
§ 36.103
What are the requirements for multipurpose spaces in homeliving programs?
Homeliving programs must provide adequate areas for sleeping, study, recreation, and related activities.
§ 36.104
What are the requirements for heating, ventilation, cooling and lighting at dormitories?
(a) All dormitories must be designed to meet or exceed the standards for heating, ventilation, cooling, and lighting set out in the building codes in the Bureau of Indian Affairs “School Facilities Design Handbook,” dated March 30, 2007, written and published by the Bureau of Indian Affairs Office of Facilities Management and Construction. The Director of the Federal Register has approved this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). To enforce any edition
other than that specified in this section, the Bureau of Indian Affairs must publish notice of change in the
Federal Register
and the material must be available to the public
(1) You may obtain a copy of the Handbook at
http://www.bia.gov/cs/groups/xraca/documents/text/idc008030.pdf.
You can get answers to your questions from the Bureau of Indian Affairs Office of Facilities Management and Construction at: 1011 Indian School Road NW., Suite 335, Albuquerque, NM 87103; email:
OFECT@bia.gov;
Web site:
http://www.bia.gov/WhoWeAre/AS-IA/OFECR/index.htm.
(2) You may inspect the Handbook at the Department of the Interior Library, Main Interior Building, 1849 C Street NW., Room 1151, Washington, DC 20240; telephone: (202) 208-3796. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030 or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) If an existing dormitory does not comply with the standards in paragraph (a) of this section, we will classify the discrepancy as “deferred capital maintenance” for purposes of prioritizing correction of the discrepancy.
(c) The Bureau must publish in the
Federal Register
any proposal to change which building codes are included in the Bureau of Indian Affairs “School Facilities Design Handbook” or any successor document, and allow 120 days for public comment and consultation.
[77 FR 30891, May 24, 2012]

# Privacy
§ 36.110
Must programs provide space for storing personal effects?
Yes, students are entitled to private personal spaces for storing their own personal effects, including at least one lockable closet, dresser drawer, or storage space. However, all drawers, dressers, storage space, or lockable space are the property of the homeliving program and are subject to random search.

# Waivers and Accountability
§ 36.111
Can a tribe, tribal governing body, or local school board waive the homeliving standards?
A tribal governing body or local school board may waive some or all of the standards established by this part if the body or board determines that the standards are inappropriate for the needs of the tribe's students.
(a) If a tribal governing body or school board waives standards under this section, it must, within 60 days, submit proposed alternative standards to the Director, BIE.
(b) Within 90 days of receiving a waiver and proposal under paragraph (a) of this section, the Director must either:
(1) Approve the submission; or
(2) Deliver to the governing body or school board a written explanation of the good cause for rejecting the submission.
(c) If the Director rejects a submission under paragraph (c) of this section, the governing body or school board may submit another waiver and proposal for approval. The standards in this part remain in effect until the Director approves alternative standards.
§ 36.112
Can a homeliving program be closed, transferred, consolidated, or substantially curtailed for failure to meet these standards?
No, a homeliving program cannot be closed, transferred to any other authority, consolidated, or its programs substantially curtailed for failure to meet these standards.
§ 36.120
What type of reporting is required to ensure accountability?
The homeliving program must provide to the appropriate local school board or alternative board such as a homeliving board, the tribal governing body, BIE, and the Secretary of the Interior, an annual accountability report within 45 days following the end of the school year consisting of:
(a) Enrollment figures identified by the homeliving count period;
(b) A brief description of programs offered;
(c) A statement of compliance with the requirements of this part and, if
the program is not in compliance, recommendations for achieving compliance; and
(d) Recommendations to improve the homeliving program including identification of issues and needs.
Pt. 37

# PART 37—GEOGRAPHIC BOUNDARIES
Sec.
37.100
What is the purpose of this part?
37.101
What definitions apply to the terms in this part?
37.102
How is this part organized?
37.103
Information collection.

# Subpart A—All Schools
37.110
Who determines geographic attendance areas?
37.111
What role does a tribe have in issues relating to school boundaries?
37.112
Must each school have a geographic attendance boundary?

# Subpart B—Day Schools, On-Reservation Boarding Schools, and Peripheral Dorms
37.120
How does this part affect current geographic attendance boundaries?
37.121
Who establishes geographic attendance boundaries under this part?
37.122
Once geographic attendance boundaries are established, how can they be changed?
37.123
How does a Tribe develop proposed geographic attendance boundaries or boundary changes?
37.124
How are boundaries established for a new school or dorm?
37.125
Can an eligible student living off a reservation attend a school or dorm?

# Subpart C—Off-Reservation Boarding Schools
37.130
Who establishes boundaries for Off-Reservation Boarding Schools?
37.131
Who may attend an ORBS?

# Authority:
Public Law 107-110, 115 Stat. 1425.

# Source:
70 FR 22204, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 37.100
What is the purpose of this part?
(a) This part:
(1) Establishes procedures for confirming, establishing, or revising attendance areas for each Bureau-funded school;
(2) Encourages consultation with and coordination between and among all agencies (school boards, tribes, and others) involved with a student's education; and
(3) Defines how tribes may develop policies regarding setting or revising geographic attendance boundaries, attendance, and transportation funding for their area of jurisdiction.
(b) The goals of the procedures in this part are to:
(1) Provide stability for schools;
(2) Assist schools to project and to track current and future student enrollment figures for planning their budget, transportation, and facilities construction needs;
(3) Adjust for geographic changes in enrollment, changes in school capacities, and improvement of day school opportunities; and
(4) Avoid overcrowding or stress on limited resources.
§ 37.101
What definitions apply to the terms in this part?
Act
means the No Child Left Behind Act, Public Law 107-110, enacted January 8, 2002. The No Child Left Behind Act reauthorizes and amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and the amended Education Amendments of 1978.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs in the Department of the Interior.
Geographic attendance area
means a physical land area that is served by a Bureau-funded school.
Geographic attendance boundary
means a line of demarcation that clearly delineates and describes the limits of the physical land area that is served by a Bureau-funded school.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a designated representative.
§ 37.102
How is this part organized?
This part is divided into three subparts. Subpart A applies to all Bureau-funded schools. Subpart B applies only to day schools, on-reservation boarding schools, and peripheral dorms—in other words, to all Bureau-funded schools except off-reservation boarding schools. Subpart C applies only to off-reservation boarding schools (ORBS).
§ 37.103
Information collection.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person is required to respond to, nor shall any person be subject to a penalty for failure to comply with, a collection of information subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) (PRA), unless that collection of information displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control Number. This part involves collections of information subject to the PRA in §§ 37.122(b), and 37.123(c). These collections have been approved by OMB under control number 1076-0163.

# Subpart A—All Schools
§ 37.110
Who determines geographic attendance areas?
The Tribal governing body or the Secretary determines geographic attendance areas.
§ 37.111
What role does a tribe have in issues relating to school boundaries?
A tribal governing body may:
(a) Establish and revise geographical attendance boundaries for all but ORB schools;
(b) Authorize ISEP-eligible students, residing within the tribe's jurisdiction, to receive transportation funding to attend schools outside the geographic attendance area in which the student lives; and
(c) Authorize tribal member students who are ISEP-eligible and are not residing within the tribe's jurisdiction to receive transportation funding to attend schools outside the student's geographic attendance area.
§ 37.112
Must each school have a geographic attendance boundary?
Yes. The Secretary must ensure that each school has a geographic attendance area boundary.

# Subpart B—Day Schools, On-Reservation Boarding Schools, and Peripheral Dorms
§ 37.120
How does this part affect current geographic attendance boundaries?
The currently established geographic attendance boundaries of day schools, on-reservation boarding schools, and peripheral dorms remain in place unless the tribal governing body revises them.
§ 37.121
Who establishes geographic attendance boundaries under this part?
(a) If there is only one day school, on-reservation boarding school, or peripheral dorm within a reservation's boundaries, the Secretary will establish the reservation boundary as the geographic attendance boundary;
(b) When there is more than one day school, on-reservation boarding school, or peripheral dorm within a reservation boundary, the Tribe may choose to establish boundaries for each;
(c) If a Tribe does not establish boundaries under paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary will do so.
§ 37.122
Once geographic attendance boundaries are established, how can they be changed?
(a) The Secretary can change the geographic attendance boundaries of a day school, on-reservation boarding school, or peripheral dorm only after:
(1) Notifying the Tribe at least 6 months in advance; and
(2) Giving the Tribe an opportunity to suggest different geographical attendance boundaries.
(b) A tribe may ask the Secretary to change geographical attendance boundaries by writing a letter to the Director of the Office of Indian Education Programs, explaining the tribe's suggested changes. The Secretary must consult with the affected tribes before deciding whether to accept or reject a suggested geographic attendance boundary change.
(1) If the Secretary accepts the Tribe's suggested change, the Secretary must publish the change in the
Federal Register.
(2) If the Secretary rejects the Tribe's suggestion, the Secretary will explain in writing to the Tribe why the suggestion either:
(i) Does not meet the needs of Indian students to be served; or
(ii) Does not provide adequate stability to all affected programs.
§ 37.123
How does a Tribe develop proposed geographic attendance boundaries or boundary changes?
(a) The Tribal governing body establishes a process for developing proposed boundaries or boundary changes. This process may include consultation and coordination with all entities involved in student education.
(b) The Tribal governing body may delegate the development of proposed boundaries to the relevant school boards. The boundaries set by the school boards must be approved by the Tribal governing body.
(c) The Tribal governing body must send the proposed boundaries and a copy of its approval to the Secretary.
§ 37.124
How are boundaries established for a new school or dorm?
Geographic attendance boundaries for a new day school, on-reservation boarding school, or peripheral dorm must be established by either:
(a) The tribe; or
(b) If the tribe chooses not to establish boundaries, the Secretary.
§ 37.125
Can an eligible student living off a reservation attend a school or dorm?
Yes. An eligible student living off a reservation can attend a day school, on-reservation boarding school, or peripheral dorm.

# Subpart C—Off-Reservation Boarding Schools
§ 37.130
Who establishes boundaries for Off-Reservation Boarding Schools?
The Secretary or the Secretary's designee, in consultation with the affected Tribes, establishes the boundaries for off-reservation boarding schools (ORBS).
§ 37.131
Who may attend an ORBS?
Any student is eligible to attend an ORBS.
Pt. 38

# PART 38—EDUCATION PERSONNEL
Sec.
38.1
Scope.
38.2
Information collection.
38.3
Definitions.
38.4
Education positions.
38.5
Qualifications for educators.
38.6
Basic compensation for educators and education positions.
38.7
Appointment of educators.
38.8
Nonrenewal of contract.
38.9
Discharge of educators.
38.10
Conditions of employment of educators.
38.11
Length of the regular school term.
38.12
Leave system for education personnel.
38.13
Status quo employees in education positions.
38.14
Voluntary services.
38.15
Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 2011 and 2015, Secs. 1131 and 1135 of the Act of November 1, 1978, 92 Stat. 2322 and 2327; Secs. 511 and 512, Pub. L. 98-511; Secs. 8 and 9, Pub. L. 99-89; Title V of Pub. L. 100-297; Pub. L. 105-337.

# Source:
53 FR 37678, Sept. 27, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.1
Scope.
(a)
Primary scope.
This part applies to all individuals appointed or converted to contract education positions as defined in § 38.3 in the Bureau of Indian Affairs after November 1, 1979. This part applies to elementary and secondary school positions and agency education positions.
(b)
Secondary scope.
Section 38.13 applies to employees with continuing tenure in both the competitive and excepted service who encumber education positions.
(c)
Other.
Where 25 CFR part 38 and a negotiated labor relations agreement conflict, the negotiated agreement will govern.
§ 38.2
Information collection.
(a) The information collection requirements contained in § 38.5 use Standard Form 171 for collection, and have been approved by OMB under 25 U.S.C. 2011 and 2015 and assigned approval number 3206-0012. The sponsoring agency for the Standard Form
171, is the Office of Personnel Management. The information is being collected to determine eligibility for employment. The information will be used to rate the qualifications of applicants for employment. Response is mandatory for employment.
(b) The information collection requirement for § 38.14, Voluntary Services has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned clearance number 1076-0116. The information is being collected to determine an applicants eligibility and selection for appropriate volunteer assignments. Response is voluntary.
§ 38.3
Definitions.
As used in this part, the term:
Agency
means the current organizational unit of the Bureau, which provides direct services to the governing body or bodies and members of one or more specified Indian Tribes.
Agency school board
as defined in section 1139(1), of Pub. L. 95-561, means a body, the members of which are appointed by the school boards of the schools located within such Agency. The number of such members shall be determined by the Director in consultation with the affected tribes. In Agencies serving a single school, the school board of that school shall function as the Agency School Board.
Agency Superintendent for Education
(ASE) means the Bureau official in charge of education functions at an Agency Office and to whom the school supervisor(s) and other educators under the Agency's jurisdiction, report.
Area Education Programs Administrator
(AEPA) means the Bureau official in charge of an Area Education Office that provides services to off-reservation residential schools, peripheral dormitories or on-reservation BIA funded schools that are not served by an Agency Superintendent for Education. The AEPA may also provide education program services to tribes not having an Agency Superintendent for Education at their agency. The AEPA has no line authority over agency education programs that are under the jurisdiction of an Agency Superintendent for Education.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
Consult,
as used in this part and provided in section 1131(d)(1) (B) and (C) of Pub. L. 95-561, means providing pertinent information to and being available for discussion with the school board, giving the school board the opportunity to reply and giving due consideration to the school board's response, subject to appeal rights provided in § 38.7 (a), (b) and (c), and § 38.9(e)(3).
Director
means the Deputy to the Assistant Secretary/Director—Indian Affairs (Indian Education Programs) in the Bureau.
Discharge
means the separation of an employee during the term of the contract.
Education function
means the administration and implementation of the Bureau's education programs and activities (including school operations).
Education position,
means a position in the Bureau the duties and responsibilities of which:
(a) Are performed on a school term basis principally in a Bureau elementary and secondary school which involve:
(1) Classroom or other instruction or the supervision or direction of classroom or other instruction;
(2) Any activity (other than teaching) that requires academic credits in educational theory and practice equal to the academic credits in educational theory and practice required for a bachelor's degree in education from an accredited institution of higher education; or
(3) Any activity in or related to the field of education notwithstanding that academic credits in educational theory and practice are not a formal requirement for the conduct of such activity; or
(4) Support services at or associated with the site of the school; or
(b) Are performed at the Agency level of the Bureau and involve the implementation of education-related Bureau programs. The position of Agency Superintendent for Education is excluded.
Educator,
as defined in section 1131(n)(2) of Pub. L. 95-561 means an individual whose services are required, or who is employed, in an education position as defined in § 38.3.
Employment contract
means a signed agreement executed by and between the Bureau and the individual employee hired or converted under this part, that specifies the position title, period of employment, and compensation attached thereto.
Involuntary change in position
means the release of an employee from his/her position instigated by a change in program or other occurrence beyond the control of the employee.
Local school board,
as used in this part and defined in section 1139(7) of Pub. L. 95-561, means a body chosen in accordance with the laws of the tribe to be served or, in the absence of such laws, the body elected by the parents of the Indian children attending a Bureau-operated school. In schools serving a substantial number of students from different tribes, the members shall be appointed by the governing bodies of the tribes affected and the number of such members shall be determined by the Director in consultation with the affected tribes.
Probationary period
means the extension of the appointed process during which a person's character and ability to satisfactorily meet the requirements of the position are reviewed.
School board
means an Agency school board or a local school board.
School supervisor
means the Bureau official in charge of a Bureau school who reports to an Agency Superintendent for Education. In the case of an off-reservation residential school(s), and, in some cases, peripheral dormitories and on-reservation day schools, the school supervisor shall report to the Area Education Programs Administrator.
School term
is that term which begins usually in the last summer or fall and ends in the Spring. It may be interrupted by one or more vacations.
§ 38.4
Education positions.
(a) The Director shall establish the kinds of positions required to carry out the Bureau's education function. No position will be established or continued for which:
(1) Funds are not available; or
(2) There is not a clearly demonstrable need and intent for it to carry out an education function.
(b) Positions established for regular school operations will be restricted to school term or program duration. Particular care shall be taken to insure that year-long positions are not established unless they are clearly required and involve essential 12-month assignments.
§ 38.5
Qualifications for educators.
(a)
Qualifications related to positions.
Job qualification requirements shall be at least equivalent to those established by the appropriate licensing and certification authorities of the State in which the position is located.
(b)
Qualifications related to individuals.
An applicant for an education position must establish that he/she meets the requirements of the position by submitting an application and a college transcript, as appropriate, to the local school supervisor, Agency Superintendent for Education (ASE), Area Education Programs Administrator (AEPA), or Director and appearing for an interview if requested by the official involved. The applicant's education and experience will be subject to verification by the ASE or the AEPA. Employees who falsify experience and employment history may be subject to disciplinary action or discharge from the position to which he/she is appointed.
(1) School boards may waive formal education and State certification requirements for tribal members who are hired to teach tribal culture and language.
(2) Tribal members appointed under this waiver may not have their basic pay rate set higher than the rate paid to qualified educators in teaching positions at that school.
(c)
Identification of qualified individuals.
The Director shall require each ASE, AEPA, and other appropriate local official in the education program organization to maintain lists of qualified and interviewed applicants for each of the kinds of established positions. Applications on file shall be
purged annually. Applicants whose qualifications are established and who indicate an interest in working in specified locations will be included on those local applicant lists. The Director shall maintain a national list of qualified applicants for each of the kinds of positions established. Applicants whose qualifications are established and who either do not indicate an interest in a specific location or indicate an interest in working in any location will be entered on the national list. The national list is a secondary source of applicants.
(d)
Special recruitment and training for Indian educators.
The Director shall review annually the Bureau's “Recruitment of Indian Educators Program” and update as necessary. The Director will define individual training plans for trainees and subsequent promotional opportunities for advancement based upon satisfactory job performance in this program.
§ 38.6
Basic compensation for educators and education positions.
(a)
Schedule of basic compensation rates.
The Director shall establish a schedule for each pay level specified in part 62 of the Bureau of Indian Affairs Manual (BIAM). The schedule will be revised at the same time as and be consistent with rates in effect under the General Schedule or Federal Wage System for individuals with comparable qualifications, and holding comparable positions.
(b)
Range of pay rates for positions within pay levels.
The range of basic compensation rates for positions assigned to each pay level will be consistent with the General Schedule or Federal Wage System rates that would otherwise be applicable if the position were classified under chapter 51 or subchapter IV of chapter 53 of title 5 of the United States Code (U.S.C.). The maximum pay shall not exceed step 10 of the comparable General Schedule position by more than ten percent.
(c)
Schedule of compensation rates for teachers and counselors.
The basic compensation for teachers and counselors, including dormitory counselors and homeliving counselors, shall be determined in accordance with rates set by the Defense Department Overseas Teachers Pay and Personnel Practices Act. The schedule used shall be the current published schedule for the school year beginning on or after July 1 of each year.
(d)
Adjusting employee basic compensation rates.
(1) Except for employees occupying positions of teachers and counselors, including dormitory counselors and homeliving counselors, adjustments in an employee's basic compensation made in connection with each contract renewal will be based on the following:
(i) Contract renewal incentive—one pay increment for each renewal, not to exceed four increments, unless the educator is covered by a negotiated labor union agreement.
(ii) Performance—employees whose performance is rated “above satisfactory”; one pay increment; employees whose performance is rated “outstanding”; two pay increments.
(2) Pay increments based on education may be awarded as outlined in 62 BIAM.
(e)
Special additions to basic compensation.
The Director is authorized to established the following special additions to rates of basic compensation:
(1) The Director may authorize payment of a staffing differential not exceeding 25 per centum of the rate of basic compensation based on a formally-documented request by an ASE or AEPA. Such a staffing differential shall only be authorized in writing when the Director determines that:
(i) It is warranted by the geographic isolation of the work site or other unusually difficult environmental working or living conditions and/or,
(ii) It is necessary as a recruitment or retention incentive. This staffing differential is to be computed on the basic schedule rate before any other additions are computed.
(2) Special rates may be established for recruitment and retention applicable only to a specific position or to specific types of positions in specific locations based on a formally documented request by an ASE or AEPA and submitted to the Director for approval.
(f)
Payment of compensation to educators.
This section applies to those individuals employed under the provisions of section 1131(m) of Pub. L. 95-561 or title 5 U.S.C.
(1)
Pay periods.
Educators shall be paid on the basis of a biweekly pay period during the term of the contract. Chapter 55 of title 5 U.S.C. applies to the administration of pay for educators, except that section 1131(m) of Pub. L. 95-561 provides that 5 U.S.C. 5533 does not apply with respect to the receipt of pay by educators during summer recess under certain circumstances.
(2)
Pay for contract educators.
When an educator is appointed, payment under the contract is to begin as of the effective date of the contract. If an educator resigns or is discharged before the expiration of the term of the contract, pay ceases as of the date of resignation or discharge.
(3)
Prorating of pay.
Within 30 days prior to the beginning of the academic school term, each educator must elect whether to have the annual contractual rate or basic pay prorated over the contractual academic school term, or to have the basic pay prorated over a 12-month period.
(i) Each educator may change such election once during the academic school term, provided notice is given two weeks prior to the end of the fifth month after the beginning of the academic school term.
(ii) An educator who elects a 12-month basis of prorated pay may further elect to be paid in one lump sum at the end of the academic school term for the then remaining amount of rate of basic pay otherwise due, provided notice is given four weeks prior to the end of the academic school term.
(iii) No educator shall suffer a loss of pay or benefits because of elections made under this section.
(4)
Stipends for extracurricular activities.
An employee, if assigned to sponsor an approved extracurricular activity, may elect annually at the beginning of the contract to be paid a stipend in lieu of overtime premium pay or compensatory time when the employee performs additional activities to provide services to students or otherwise support the school's academic and social programs.
(i) The Director is authorized to establish a schedule of stipends for each Bureau Area, taking into consideration types of activities to be compensated and payments provided by public school districts in or near the Area.
(ii) The stipend shall be a supplement to the employee's base pay and is not a part of salary for retirement computation purposes.
(iii) The employee shall be paid the stipend in equal payments over the period of the extracurricular activity.
[53 FR 37678, Sept. 27, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 46374, Nov. 3, 1989]
§ 38.7
Appointment of educators.
(a)
Local school employees.
Local Bureau school employees shall be appointed only by the school supervisor. Before the local school employee is employed, the school board shall be consulted. An individual's appointment may be finalized only upon receipt of a formal written determination certified by the local school board under such uniform procedures as it may adopt. Written determination by the school board should be received within a reasonable period, but not to exceed 30 days. Failure of the school board to act within this period shall have the effect of approving the proposed appointment. The local school board shall use the same written procedure to disapprove an appointment. The school supervisor may appeal to the ASE, or, where appropriate, to the AEPA, any determination by the local school board concerning an individual's appointment. A written statement of appeal describing the action and the reasons the supervisor believes such action should be overturned must be filed within 10 days of receipt of the action from the local school board. A copy of such statement shall be submitted to the school board and the board shall be afforded an opportunity to respond, not to exceed 10 calendar days, in writing, to the appeal. After reviewing such written appeal and response, the ASE or AEPA may, for cause, overturn the action of the local school board. The ASE or AEPA must transmit the determination of the appeal (in the form of a written opinion) to the board and to
the supervisor identifying the reasons for overturning the action within 10 calender days. Failure to act within the 10 calendar day period shall have the effect of approving the local school board's determination.
(b)
School supervisors.
School supervisors may be appointed only by the ASE, except the AEPA shall appoint school supervisors for off-reservation boarding schools and those few other schools supervised by the AEPA. The school board shall be consulted before the school supervisor is employed. The appointment may be finalized upon receipt of a formal written determination certified by the school board under any uniform procedures as it may adopt. Written determination by the school board shall be received within a reasonable period, but not to exceed 30 days. Failure of the school board to act within this period shall have the effect of approving the proposed appointment. The school board shall use the same procedure to disapprove an appointment. Within 20 calendar days of receipt of any determination by the school board concerning an individual's appointment, the ASE or AEPA, as appropriate, may appeal to the Director by filing a written statement describing the determination and the reasons the supervisor believes the determination should be overturned. A copy of the statement shall be submitted to the local school board and the board shall be afforded an opportunity to respond, within 10 calendar days, in writing, to such an appeal. The Director may reverse the determination for cause set out in writing to the school board. Within 20 calendar days of the school board's response, the Director shall transmit the determination of the appeal (in the form of a written opinion) to the board and to the ASE or AEPA identifying the reasons for overturning the determination. Failure by the Director to act within the 20 calendar day period shall have the effect of approving the school board's determination.
(c)
Agency office education program employees.
Appointments to Agency office education positions may be made only by the ASE. The Agency school board shall be consulted before the agency education employee is employed, and the appointment may be finalized upon receipt of a formal, written determination certified by the Agency school board under any uniform procedures as it may adopt. Written determination by the school board shall be received within a reasonable period, but not to exceed 30 days. Failure of the school board to act within this period shall have the effect of approving the proposed appointment. The Agency school board shall use the same written procedure to disapprove an appointment. Within 20 calendar days of receipt of any determination by the school board concerning an individual's appointment, the ASE may appeal to the Director by filing a written statement describing the determination and the reasons the supervisor believes the determination should be overturned. A copy of the statement shall be submitted to the Agency school board and the board shall be afforded an opportunity to respond, within 10 calendar days, in writing, to such appeal. After reviewing the written appeal and response, the Director may, for cause, overturn the determination of the Agency school board. Within 20 days of the board's response, the Director shall transmit the determination of the appeal (in the form of a written opinion) to the board and to the ASE identifying the reasons for overturning the determination. Failure of the Director to act within the 20 calendar day period shall have the effect of approving the school's board's determination.
(d)
Employment contracts.
The Bureau shall issue employment contracts each year for individuals employed in contract education positions at the Agency or school levels.
(e)
Absence of local school boards.
Where a local school board has not been established in accordance with section 1139(7) Pub. L. 95-561 with respect to a Bureau school, or where a school board is not operational, and the local school board is required to be given a notice or required to be consulted by statute or these regulations, the official involved shall notify or consult with the Agency school board serving the tribe(s) to which the parents of the Indian children atending that school belong, or, in that absence,
the tribal organization(s) of the tribe(s) involved.
(f)
Provisional contracts.
Provisional certification or other limited certificates from the State are not considered full certification and only a provisional contract may be issued. There may be circumstances when no individual who has met the full certification or experience requirements is available for a professional position or when a status quo employee who does not meet full certification or experience requirements desires to convert to contract. When this situation exists, a provisional contract may be issued in accordance with the following:
(1) The contract will be made only:
(i) After it is determined that an individual already meeting certification or experience requirements is not available; or
(ii) For conversion of a status quo employee who does not yet meet all established position requirements.
(2) Consultation with the appropriate school board is required prior to the contract.
(3) The contract may be of 12-month or school-term duration.
(4) The employee will be required to make satisfactory progress toward meeting full qualification requirements.
(5) If the employee fails to meet the requirements established under § 38.7(f)(4), the contract will be terminated. Such termination cannot be grieved or appealed.
(g)
Conditional appointment.
As provided in section 1131(d)(4), Pub. L. 95-561, if an individual who has applied at both the national and local levels is appointed from a local list of applicants, the appointment shall be conditional for 90 days. During that period, the individual's application and background shall be examined to determine if there is a more qualified individual for the position. Removal during this period is not subject to discharge, hearing or grievance procedures.
(h)
Short-term contracts.
(1) There may be circumstances where immediate action is necessary and it is impossible to consult with the local school board. When this situation exists short-term contracts may be made by the school supervisor in accordance with the following:
(i) The length of the contract will not exceed 60 days, or the next regularly scheduled school board meeting, whichever comes first.
(ii) If the board meets and does not take action on the individual in question, the short-term contract may be extended for the duration of the school year.
(iii) It shall be the responsibility of the school supervisor to fully inform the local school board of all such short-term contracts. Failure to do so may be cited as reason to discharge the school supervisor if so requested by the board.
(2) The local school board may authorize the school supervisor to make an emergency short-term contract to classroom, dormitory and other positions directly related to the health and safety of students. When this situation exists, short-term contracts may be made in accordance with the following:
(i) If local and agency lists of qualified applicants are exhausted, short-term contracts may be made without regard to qualifications for the position;
(ii) The pay level will be based on the qualifications of the individual employed rather than the requirements of the position, if the qualifications of the individual are lower than required;
(iii) The short-term contract may not exceed the school term and may not be renewed or extended;
(iv) Every 60 days the school supervisor will determine if qualified individuals have been placed on the local or agency lists. If a qualified individual on the list accepts employment, the school supervisor must terminate the emergency appointment at the time the qualified individual is appointed.
(i)
Temporary contracts.
There may be circumstances where a specific position is needed for a period of one year or less. Under these conditions a position may be advertised as a temporary position and be filled under a temporary contract. Such contract requires the same school board approval as a school year contract. If required for the completion of the activities specified in the original announcement, the position,
may with school board approval be extended for up to one additional year. Temporary contracts may be terminated at any time and this action is not subject to approval or grievance procedures.
(j)
Waiver of Indian preference.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Indian preference laws, such laws shall not apply in the case of any personnel action within the purview of this section respecting an application or employee not entitled to Indian preference if each tribal organization concerned grants, in writing, a waiver of the application of such laws with respect to such personnel action, where such a waiver is in writing deemed to be a necessity by the tribal organization, except that this shall in no way relieve the Bureau of its responsibility to issue timely and adequate announcements and advertisements concerning any such personnel action if it is intended to fill a vacancy (no matter how such vacancy is created). When a waiver is granted, it shall apply only to that particular position and as long as the employee remains in that position.
(k)
Prohibited reappointment.
An educator who voluntarily terminates employment before the end of the school term may not be appointed to another Bureau education position before the beginning of the following school term. An educator will not be deemed to have voluntarily terminated employment if transferred elsewhere with the consent of the local school or Agency boards.
(l)
Contract renewals.
The appropriate school board shall be notified in writing by the school supervisor and/or ASE or AEPA not less than 90 days before the end of the school term whether or not an individual's contract is recommended for renewal.
(1) If the school board disagrees with the school supervisor's or ASE's or AEPA's recommendations, the board will submit a formal, written certification of its determinations to the school supervisor or ASE or AEPA within 25 days. If the board's determinations are not received within the 25 days, the school supervisor or ASE or AEPA shall issue the 60 day notification of renewal or nonrenawal to the individual as required under § 38.8.
(2) When the school board submits its determination within the 25 days and determines that a contract will be renewed, or nonrenewed, the appropriate official shall issue the required renewal notice, or nonrenawal, or appeal the determination of the school board to the appropriate official who will make a determination in accordance with the appeal procedure is § 38.7(a) of this part. After the probationary period, if the determination is that the contract will not be renewed, the procedures specified in § 38.8 shall apply.
§ 38.8
Nonrenewal of contract.
Where the determination is made that an employee's contract shall not be renewed for the following year, the following procedure will apply to those employees who have completed three full continuous school terms of service under consecutive contract appointments and satisfactory performance in the same or comparable education positions.
(a) The employee will be given a written notice of the action and the reasons thereof not less than 60 days before the end of the school term.
(b) The employee will be given 10 calendar days to request an informal hearing before the appropriate official or body. Upon request, the employee may be given official time, not to exceed eight hours, to prepare a written response to the reason(s).
(c) If so requested, an informal hearing shall be held within 30 calendar days of receipt of the request.
(d) The appropriate official or body will render a written determination within seven calendar days after the informal hearing.
(e) The employee has a right to request an administrative review by the ASE or AEPA of the determination within 10 calendar days of that determination. The ASE or AEPA then has 20 calendar days to render a final decision. Where the employee is the supervisor of the school or an agency education employee, any appeal of the ASE or AEPA would be addressed to the Director for a decision. If the Director or ASE's or AEPA's decision overturns the appropriate official or bodies determination, the appropriate official or body will be notified of the
reasons in writing. Failure by the Director or ASE or AEPA to act within the 20 days will sustain the determination. This completes the administrative appeal process.
(f) Failure of any of the parties to meet the requirements of the above procedures will serve to negate the particular action sought by the negligent party.
(g) Those employees with less than three full continuous school terms of consecutive contract appointments are serving a probationary period. Nonrenewal of his/her contract will be considered a continuation of the examining process. This action cannot be appealed or grieved.
(h) Independent of the procedures outlined in this section, the school supervisor or ASE or AEPA, for applicable positions, shall be required to submit to the ASE or AEPA or appropriate higher authority all nonrenewal actions. Within 60 days, the ASE or AEPA shall review the nonrenewal actions and may overturn the determination of nonrenewal. In the event that the ASE or AEPA makes a decision to overturn the school board determination, the ASE or AEPA shall notify the school board in writing of his/her reasons for doing so.
(i) No more than the substantial standard of evidence shall be required to sustain the nonrenewal.
(j) A procedural error shall not be grounds for overturning a determination of nonrenewal unless the employee shows harmful error in the application of the Agency's procedures in arriving at such a decision. For purposes of this section, “harmful error” means error by the Agency in the application of its procedures which, in the absence or cure of the error, might have caused the Agency to reach a conclusion different than the one reached. The burden is upon the appellant to show that based upon the record as a whole, the error was harmful. i.e., caused substantial harm or prejudice to his/her rights.
(k) Nonrenewal of a contract is not discharge and will not follow the discharge procedures.
§ 38.9
Discharge of educators.
(a)
Discharge for cause.
Educators covered under the provision of this section are excluded from coverage under 5 U.S.C. 7511 and 4303. In order to provide due process for educators, the Director shall publish in 62 BIAM representative conditions that could result in the discharge of educators for cause and procedures to be followed in discharge cases.
(b)
Discharge for inadequate performance.
Action to remove educators for inadequate performance will be taken for failure to meet performance standards established under 5 U.S.C. 4302. Performance standards for all educators will include, among others, lack of student achievement. Willful failure to exercise properly assigned supervisory responsibilities by supervisors shall also be cause for discharge.
(c)
Other discharge.
The Director shall publish in 62 BIAM a description of the budgetary and programmatic conditions that may result in the discharge of educators for other than cause during the school term. The individual's personnel record will clearly reflect that the action taken is based upon budgetary or programmatic restraints and is not a reflection on the employee's performance.
(d)
Procedures for discharge for cause.
The Director shall publish in 62 BIAM the procedural steps to be followed by school supervisors, ASE's, and AEPA's in discharge for cause cases. These procedures shall provide (among other things) for the following:
(1) The educator to be discharged shall receive a written notice of the proposal, specifying the causes or complaints upon which the proposal is based, not less than 30 calendar days before the discharge. However, this shall not prohibit the exclusion of the individual from the education facility in cases where exclusion is required for the safety of the students or the orderly operation of the facility.
(2) A reasonable time, but not less than 10 calendar days, will be allotted for the individual to make written and/or oral responses to the charge.
(3) An opportunity will be afforded the individual to review the material relied upon to support the charge.
(4) Official time, not to exceed eight hours, will be provided to the individual to prepare a response to the charge.
(5) The educator may elect to have a representative and shall furnish the identity of any representative to the ASE or AEPA. The ASE or AEPA may disallow, as an employee representative, any individual whose activities as a representative would cause a conflict of interest or position, or an employee whose release from his or her official position would give rise to unreasonable costs to the Government, or when priority work assignment precludes his or her release from official duties. The terms of any applicable collective bargaining agreement and 5 U.S.C. 7114(a)(5) shall govern representation of employees in an exclusive bargaining unit.
(6) The individual has a right to a final decision made by the appropriate level of supervision.
(7) The individual has a right to appeal the final decision and have the merits of the case reviewed by a Departmental official not previously involved in the case. This right includes entitlement to a hearing upon request under procedures in accordance with the requirements of due process under section 1131(e)(1)(B) of Pub. L. 95-561.
(e)
School board action.
(1) The appropriate school board shall be notified as soon as possible, but in no case later than 10 calendar days from the date of issue of the notice of intent to discharge.
(2) The appropriate school board, under any uniform procedure as it may adopt, may issue a formal written certification to the school supervisor, ASE, or AEPA either approving or disapproving the discharge before the expiration of the notice period and before actual discharge. Failure to respond before the expiration of the notice period will have the effect of approving the discharge.
(3) The school supervisor initiating a discharge action may appeal the board's determination to the ASE or AEPA within 10 calendar days of receipt of the board's notice. The ASE or AEPA initiating a discharge may appeal the board's determination to the Director within 10 calendar days of receipt of the board's notice. Within 20 calendar days following the receipt of an appeal, the reviewing official may, for good cause, reverse the school board's determination by a notice in writing to the board. Failure to act within 20 calendar days shall have the effect of approving the board's determination.
(f)
School board recommendations for discharge.
School boards may recommend in writing to school supervisors, ASE's, or AEPA's, and the Director that individuals in the education program be discharged. These written recommendations may follow any procedures formally established internally by the school board or tribal government. However, the written recommendations must contain specific causes or complaints that may be verified or established by investigation of factual situations. The official receiving a board recommendation for discharge of an individual shall acknowledge the recommendation in writing within 10 calendar days of receipt and proceed with a fact finding investigation. The official who finally disposes of the recommendation shall notify the school board of the disposition in writing within 60 calendar days of initiation of the fact finding investigation.
§ 38.10
Conditions of employment of educators.
(a)
Supervision not delegated to school boards.
School boards may not direct, control, or interrupt the day-to-day activities of BIA employees carrying out Bureau-operated education programs.
(b)
Employee handbook.
Employee handbook and recruiting guides shall be developed by each local school or agency to provide specific information regarding:
(1) The working and hiring conditions for various tribal jurisdictions and Bureau locations;
(2) The need for all education personnel to adapt to local situations; and
(3) The requirement of all education personnel to comply with and support duly adopted school board policies, including those relating to tribal culture or language.
(c)
Contract renewal notification.
Employees will be notified 60 calendar days before the end of the school term of the intent to renew or not renew their contract. If an individual's contract is to be renewed, the individual
must agree in writing to serve for the next school term. This agreement must be received within 14 calendar days of the date of the notice in order to complete the contract renewal. If this agreement is not received by the fourteenth day, the employee has voluntarily forfeited his or her right to continuing employment. If an individual agrees to serve for the next school term and fails to report for duty at the beginning of the next school term, the contract will be terminated and the individual's future appointment will be subject to the restriction in § 38.7(k) of this part.
(d)
Dual compensation.
An employee accepting a renewal of a school term contract may be appointed to another Federal position during the school recess period without regard to the dual compensation regulations in 5 U.S.C. 5533.
(e)
Discrimination complaints.
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) procedures established under 29 CFR part 1613 are applicable to contract employees under this part. It is the policy of the BIA that all employees and applicants for employment shall be treated equally when considered for employment or benefits of employment, regardless of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, or mental or physical health (handicap), within the parameters of Indian preference.
(f)
Grievance procedures.
The Director shall publish in 62 BIAM procedures for the rapid and equitable resolution of grievances. In locations and for positions covered by an exclusive bargaining agreement, the negotiated grievance procedure is the exclusive avenue of redress for all matters within the scope of the negotiated grievance procedure.
(g)
Performance evaluation.
The minimum number of times a supervisor shall meet with an employee to discuss performance and suggest improvements shall be once every three months for the educator's first year at a school or Agency, and twice annually thereafter during the school term.
§ 38.11
Length of the regular school term.
The length of the regular school term shall be at least 180 student instructional days, unless a waiver has been granted under the provisions of 25 CFR 36.61.
§ 38.12
Leave system for education personnel.
(a)
Full-time school-term employees.
Employees on a full-time school-term contract are authorized the following types of leave:
(1)
Personal leave.
A school-term employee will receive 28 hours of personal leave to be used for personal reasons and 12 hours of emergency leave. This leave only accrues provided the length of the contract exceeds 24 weeks.
(i) The school-term employee will request the use of this leave in advance when it is for personal use or personal business (e.g., going to the bank, etc.). When this leave is requested for emergency purposes (e.g., death in immediate family), it will be requested immediately after the emergency is known, if possible, by the employee and before leave is taken or as soon as the supervisor reports to work on the official work day.
(ii) Final approval rests with the supervisor. This leave shall be taken only during the school term. No compensation for or carryover of unused leave is authorized.
(2)
Sick leave.
Sick leave is an absence approved by the supervisor for incapacity from duty due to injury or illness, not related to or incurred on-the-job and not covered by the Federal Employee's Compensation Act Regulations. Medical and dental appointments may be included under this part. However, whenever possible, medical and dental appointments should be scheduled after instructional time.
(i) Sick leave shall accrue at the rate of four hours each biweekly pay period in pay status during the term of the contract; and no precredit or advance of sick leave is authorized.
(ii) Accumulated sick leave at the time of separation will be recredited to an educator who is reemployed within three years of separation.
(3)
School vacation.
School term employees may receive up to 136 hours of school vacation time for use when school is not in session. School vacations are scheduled on the annual
school calendar during the instructional year and may not be scheduled before the first day of student instruction or after the last day of student instruction. School vacations are not a right of the employee and cannot be paid for or carried over if the employee is required to work during the school vacation time or if the program will not permit school term employees to take such vacation time.
(b)
Leave for full-time, year-long employees.
Employees who are on a full-time, year-long contract are authorized the following types of leave:
(1)
Vacation leave.
Absence approved in advance by the supervisor for rest and relaxation or other personal reasons is authorized on a per year basis of Federal Government service as follows: years 1 and 2 of employment—120 hours; years 3-5 of employment—160 hours; 6 or more years—200 hours. The supervisor will determine when vacation leave may be used. Vacation leave is to be scheduled and used to the greatest extent possible during periods when school is not in session and the students are not in the dormitories. Vacation leave is credited to an employee on the day following his or her date of employment, provided the length of the contract exceeds 24 weeks. An employee may carry into succeeding years up to 200 hours of vacation leave. Leave unused at the time of separation is forfeited.
(2)
Sick leave.
Sick leave accumulation and use is authorized on the same basis as for school term employees under § 38.12(a)(2) of this part.
(c)
Leave for part-time year-long employees.
Employees who are on part-time year-long contracts exceeding 20 hours per week are authorized the following types of leave:
(1)
Vacation leave.
Absence approved in advance by the supervisor for rest and relaxation or other personal reasons is authorized on a per year basis of Federal Government service as follows: years 1 and 2 of employment—64 hours; years 3-5 of employment—80 hours; 6 or more years—104 hours. The supervisor shall determine when vacation leave may be used. Vacation leave is to be scheduled and used to the greatest extent possible during periods when school is not in session and the students are not in the dormitories. Vacation leave is credited to an employee on the day following his or her date of employment provided the length of the contract exceeds 24 weeks and may not be accumulated in excess of 104 hours from year to year. An employee may carry over up to 104 hours from one contract year to the next. Leave unused at the time of separation is forfeited.
(2)
Sick leave.
Sick leave is accumulated on the basis of three hours each biweekly pay period in pay status; no precredit or advance of sick leave is authorized. Accumulated sick leave at the time of separation will be recredited to an educator who is reemployed within three years of separation.
(d)
Leave for school term employees on a part-time work schedule in excess of 20 hours per week.
(1) Employees on a part-time work schedule in excess of 20 hours per week may receive a maximum of 102 hours of school vacation time; 20 hours of personal/emergency leave; and 63 hours of sick leave accrued at three hours per pay period for the first 21 pay periods of their contracts. Personal/emergency leave only accrues provided the length of the contract exceeds 24 weeks.
(2) The part-time employee will request the use of this leave in writing in advance when it is for personal use or personal business (e.g., going to the bank, etc.). When this leave is requested for emergency purposes (e.g., death in immediate family), it will be requested immediately after the emergency is known, if possible, by the employee and before leave is taken or as soon as the supervisor reports to work on the official work day.
(3) Final approval rests with the supervisor. This leave shall be taken only during the school year. No compensation for or carryover of unused leave is authorized.
(4)
Sick leave.
Sick leave is an absence approved by the supervisor for incapacity from duty due to injury or illness, not related to or incurred on-the-job and not covered by the Federal Employee's Compensation Act Regulations. Medical and dental appointments may be included under this part. However, whenever possible, medical and
dental appointments should be scheduled after instructional time.
(i) Sick leave shall accrue at the rate of three hours each biweekly pay period in pay status for the first 21 pay periods of their contract; no precredit or advance for sick leave is authorized.
(ii) Accumulated sick leave at the time of separation will be recredited to an educator who is reemployed within three years of separation.
(5)
School vacation time.
Part-time employees may receive up to 102 hours of school vacation time for use when school is not in session. Approval for the use of this time will be administratively determined by the school supervisor, ASE or AEPA, and this time may not be scheduled before the start of school or after the end of school.
(i) All school vacation time for part-time employees will be approved at the convenience of the program and not as a right of the employee.
(ii) Vacation time cannot be paid for or carried over for a part-time employee if the employee is required to work during the school vacation time or if the program will not permit part-time employees to take such vacation time.
(e)
Accountable absences for all contract employees.
The following are considered accountable absences:
(1)
Approved absence.
If prescheduled and approved by the school supervisor, ASE or AEPA, as appropriate, an employee may be on leave without pay.
(2)
Absence without leave.
Any absence is not prescheduled or approved in advance or excused by the supervisor is considered absence without leave.
(3)
Court and military leave.
Employees are entitled to paid absence for jury or witness service and military duty as a member of the National Guard or Reserve under the same terms or conditions as outlined in sections 6322 and 6323 of title 5 U.S.C., and corresponding provisions of the Federal Personnel Manual, when the absence occurs during the regular contract period. Employees may be requested to schedule their military leave at times other than when school is in session.
(4)
Administrative leave.
Administrative leave is an excused absence from duty administratively authorized without loss of pay or without charge to leave. This leave is not a substitute for other paid or unpaid leave categories. Administrative leave usually is authorized on an individual basis except when a school is closed or a group of employees are excused from work for a particular purpose. The school supervisor, ASE or AEPA will grant administrative leave. A school closing must be approved by the ASE or AEPA.
(f) Educators serving with contracts with work weeks of 20 hours a week or less are not eligible for any type of paid leave.
(g) For school term educators, no paid leave is earned nor may accumulated leave be used during any period of employment with the Bureau between school terms.
(h) Employees issued contracts for intermittent work are not eligible for any type of paid leave.
(i)
Leave transferred in.
Annual leave credited to an employee's accrued leave balance immediately before conversion to a contract education position or appointment under this part will be carried over and made available to the employee. Sick leave credited to an employee's accrued sick leave balance immediately before conversion to a contract education position or appointment under this part shall be credited to the employee's sick leave account under the system in § 38.12(a)(2) and (b)(2).
§ 38.13
Status quo employees in education positions.
(a)
Status quo employees.
Individuals who were Bureau employees on October 31, 1979, with an appointment in either the competitive or excepted service without time limitation, and who are serving in an education position, shall be continued in their positions under the terms and conditions of that appointment with no change in their status or positions. Such employees are entitled to receive any changes in compensation attached to the position. Although such employees occupy “education positions” as defined in this part, the terms and conditions of their appointment, status, and entitlements are determined by competitive service regulations and procedures. Under applicable procedures, these employees
are eligible for consideration for movement to other positions that are defined as “contract education” positions. Such movement shall change the terms and conditions of their appointment to the terms and conditions of employment established under this part.
(b) If the tribe or school board waives the Indian preference law, the employee loses the early-out retirement eligibility under Pub. L. 96-135, “early-out for non-Indians,” if they are entitled to the early-out retirement. A memorandum for the record on BIA letterhead shall be signed by the employee and placed on the permanent side of his/her Official Personnel Folder, along with the tribal resolution, if the tribe/school board has waived the Indian preference law to employ the non-Indian.”
(c)
Conversion of status quo employees to contract positions.
Status quo employees may request in writing to the school supervisor, ASE or AEPA, as applicable, that their position be converted to contract. The appropriate school board will be consulted and a determination made by such school board whether such individual should be converted to a contract employee.
(1) Written determination by the school board should be received within a reasonable period, but not to exceed 30 days from receipt of the request. Failure of the school board to act within this period shall have the effect of disapproving the proposed conversion.
(2) With school board approval, an involuntary change in position shall not affect the current status of status quo education employees.
§ 38.14
Voluntary services.
(a)
Scope.
An ASE or AEPA may, subject to the approval of the local school board concerned, accept voluntary services on behalf of Bureau schools from the private sector, including individuals, groups, or students. Voluntary service shall be for all non-hazardous activities where public services, special projects, or school operations are improved and enhanced. Volunteer service is limited to personal services received without compensation (salary or wages) by the Bureau from individuals, groups, and students. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require Federal employees to work without compensation or to allow the use of volunteer services to displace or replace Federal employees.
(b)
Volunteer service agreement.
An agreement is a written document, jointly completed by the volunteer, the Bureau school supervisor, and the school board, that outlines the responsibilities of each. In the case of students receiving credit for their work (i.e., student teaching) from an education institution, the agreement will be jointly completed by the student, a representative of the institution, and the Bureau school supervisor. In the case of volunteer groups, the agreement shall be signed by an official of the volunteering organization, the Bureau school supervisor, and the school board and a list of signatures and emergency telephone numbers of all participants shall be attached.
(c)
Eligibility.
Although no minimum age requirement exists for volunteers, schools shall comply with appropriate Federal and State laws and standards on using the services of minors. All volunteers under the age of 18 must obtain written permission from their parents or guardians to perform volunteer activities.
(d)
Status.
Volunteers participating under this part are not considered Federal employees for any purpose other than:
(1) Title 5 U.S.C. chapter 81, dealing with compensation for injuries sustained during the performance of work assignments.
(2) Federal tort claims provisions published in 28 U.S.C. chapter 171.
(3) Department of the Interior Regulations Governing Responsibilities and Conduct.
(e)
Travel and other expenses.
The decision to reimburse travel and other incidental expenses, as well as the amount of reimbursement, shall be made by the school supervisor, ASE, AEPA, and the respective school board. Payment is made in the same manner as for regular employees. Payment of travel and per diem expenses to a volunteer on a particular assignment must be supported by a specific travel authorization and cannot exceed the
cost of employing a temporary employee of comparable qualification at the school for which a travel authorization is considered.
(f)
Annual report.
School supervisors shall submit reports on volunteers to the ASE or AEPA by October 31 of each year for the preceding year.
§ 38.15
Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute.
(a) The Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute has an independent personnel system established under Public Law 105-337, the Administrative Systems Act of 1998, 112 Stat. 3171. The details of this system are in the Indian Affairs Manual (IAM) at Part 20. This manual system may be found in Bureau of Indian Affairs Regional and Agency Offices, Education Line Offices, and the Central Office in Washington, DC.
(b) The personnel system is in the excepted service and addresses the areas of classification, staffing, pay, performance, discipline, and separation. Other areas of personnel such as leave, retirement, life insurance, health benefits, thrift savings, etc., remain under the jurisdiction of the Office of Personnel Management.
[65 FR 58183, Sept. 27, 2000]
Pt. 39

# PART 39—THE INDIAN SCHOOL EQUALIZATION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
39.1
What is the purpose of this part?
39.2
What definitions apply to terms in this part?
39.3
Information collection.

# Subpart B—Indian School Equalization Formula
39.100
What is the Indian School Equalization Formula?
39.101
Does ISEF assess the actual cost of school operations?

# Base and Supplemental Funding
39.102
What is academic base funding?
39.103
What are the factors used to determine base funding?
39.104
How must a school's base funding provide for students with disabilities?
39.105
Are additional funds available for special education?
39.106
Who is eligible for special education funding?
39.107
Are schools allotted supplemental funds for special student and/or school costs?

# Gifted and Talented Programs
39.110
Can ISEF funds be distributed for the use of gifted and talented students?
39.111
What does the term gifted and talented mean?
39.112
What is the limit on the number of students who are gifted and talented?
39.113
What are the special accountability requirements for the gifted and talented program?
39.114
What characteristics may qualify a student as gifted and talented for purposes of supplemental funding?
39.115
How are eligible gifted and talented students identified and nominated?
39.116
How does a school determine who receives gifted and talented services?
39.117
How does a school provide gifted and talented services for a student?
39.118
How does a student receive gifted and talented services in subsequent years?
39.119
When must a student leave a gifted and talented program?
39.120
How are gifted and talented services provided?
39.121
What is the WSU for gifted and talented students?

# Language Development Programs
39.130
Can ISEF funds be used for Language Development Programs?
39.131
What is a Language Development Program?
39.132
Can a school integrate Language Development Programs into its regular instructional program?
39.133
Who decides how Language Development funds can be used?
39.134
How does a school identify a Limited English Proficient student?
39.135
What services must be provided to an LEP student?
39.136
What is the WSU for Language Development programs?
39.137
May schools operate a language development program without a specific appropriation from Congress?

# Small School Adjustment
39.140
How does a school qualify for a Small School Adjustment?
39.141
What is the amount of the Small School Adjustment?
39.143
What is a small high school?
39.144
What is the small high school adjustment?
39.145
Can a school receive both a small school adjustment and a small high school adjustment?
39.146
Is there an adjustment for small residential programs?

# Geographic Isolation Adjustment
39.160
Does ISEF provide supplemental funding for extraordinary costs related to a school's geographic isolation?

# Subpart C—Administrative Procedures, Student Counts, and Verifications
39.200
What is the purpose of the Indian School Equalization Formula?
39.201
Does ISEF reflect the actual cost of school operations?
39.202
What are the definitions of terms used in this subpart?
39.203
When does OIEP calculate a school's allotment?
39.204
How does OIEP calculate ADM?
39.205
How does OIEP calculate a school's total WSUs for the school year?
39.206
How does OIEP calculate the value of one WSU?
39.207
How does OIEP determine a school's funding for the school year?
39.208
How are ISEP funds distributed?
39.209
When may a school count a student for membership purposes?
39.210
When must a school drop a student from its membership?
39.211
What other categories of students can a school count for membership purposes?
39.212
Can a student be counted as enrolled in more than one school?
39.213
Will the Bureau fund children being home schooled?
39.214
What is the minimum number of instructional hours required in order to be considered a full-time educational program?
39.215
Can a school receive funding for any part-time students?

# Residential Programs
39.216
How does ISEF fund residential programs?
39.217
How are students counted for the purpose of funding residential services?
39.218
Are there different formulas for different levels of residential services?
39.219
What happens if a residential program does not maintain residency levels required by this subpart?
39.220
What reports must residential programs submit to comply with this rule?
39.221
What is a full school month?

# Phase-in Period
39.230
How will the provisions of this subpart be phased in?

# Subpart D—Accountability
39.401
What is the purpose of this subpart?
39.402
What definitions apply to terms used in this subpart?
39.403
What certification is required?
39.404
What is the certification and verification process?
39.405
How will verifications be conducted?
39.406
What documentation must the school maintain for additional services it provides?
39.407
How long must a school maintain records?
39.408
What are the responsibilities of administrative officials?
39.409
How does the OIEP Director ensure accountability?
39.410
What qualifications must an audit firm meet to be considered for auditing ISEP administration?
39.411
How will the auditor report its findings?
39.412
What sanctions apply for failure to comply with this subpart?
39.413
Can a school appeal the verification of the count?

# Subpart E—Contingency Fund
39.500
What emergency and contingency funds are available?
39.501
What is an emergency or unforeseen contingency?
39.502
How does a school apply for contingency funds?
39.503
How can a school use contingency funds?
39.504
May schools carry over contingency funds to a subsequent fiscal year?
39.505
What are the reporting requirements for the use of the contingency fund?

# Subpart F—School Board Training Expenses
39.600
Are Bureau-operated school board expenses funded by ISEP limited?
39.601
Is school board training for Bureau-operated schools considered a school board expense subject to the limitation?
39.603
Is school board training required for all Bureau-funded schools?
39.604
Is there a separate weight for school board training at Bureau-operated schools?

# Subpart G—Student Transportation
39.700
What is the purpose of this subpart?
39.701
What definitions apply to terms used in this subpart?

# Eligibility for Funds
39.702
Can a school receive funds to transport residential students using commercial transportation?
39.703
What ground transportation costs are covered for students traveling by commercial transportation?
39.704
Are schools eligible to receive chaperone expenses to transport residential students?
39.705
Are schools eligible for transportation funds to transport special education students?
39.706
Are peripheral dormitories eligible for day transportation funds?
39.707
Which student transportation expenses are currently not eligible for Student Transportation Funding?
39.708
Are miles generated by non-ISEP eligible students eligible for transportation funding?

# Calculating Transportation Miles
39.710
How does a school calculate annual bus transportation miles for day students?
39.711
How does a school calculate annual bus transportation miles for residential students?

# Reporting Requirements
39.720
Why are there different reporting requirements for transportation data?
39.721
What transportation information must off-reservation boarding schools report?
39.722
What transportation information must day schools, on-reservation boarding schools and peripheral dormitory schools report?

# Miscellaneous Provisions
39.730
Which standards must student transportation vehicles meet?
39.731
Can transportation time be used as instruction time for day school students?
39.732
How does OIEP allocate transportation funds to schools?

# Subpart H—Determining the Amount Necessary To Sustain an Academic or Residential Program
39.801
What is the formula to determine the amount necessary to sustain a school's academic or residential program?
39.802
What is the student unit value in the formula?
39.803
What is a weighted student unit in the formula?
39.804
How is the SUIV calculated?
39.805
What was the student unit for instruction value (SUIV) for the school year 1999-2000?
39.806
How is the SURV calculated?
39.807
How will the Student Unit Value be adjusted annually?
39.808
What definitions apply to this subpart?
39.809
Information collection.

# Subpart I—Interim Maintenance and Minor Repair Fund
39.900
Establishment and funding of an Interim Maintenance and Minor Repair Fund.
39.901
Conditions for distribution.
39.902
Allocation.
39.903
Use of funds.
39.904
Limitations.

# Subpart J—Administrative Cost Formula
39.1000
Purpose and scope.
39.1001
Definitions.
39.1002
Allotment of education administrative funds.
39.1003
Allotment exception for FY 1991.

# Subpart K—Pre-kindergarten Programs
39.1100
Interim fiscal year 1980 and fiscal year 1981 funding for pre-kindergarten programs previously funded by the Bureau.
39.1101
Addition of pre-kindergarten as a weight factor to the Indian School Equalization Formula in fiscal year 1982.

# Subpart L—Contract School Operation and Maintenance Fund
39.1200
Definitions.
39.1201
Establishment of an interim fiscal year 1980 operation and maintenance fund for contract schools.
39.1202
Distribution of funds.
39.1203
Future consideration of contract school operation and maintenance funding.

# Authority:
25 U.S.C. 13, 2008; Public Law 107-110, 115 Stat. 1425.

# Source:
44 FR 61864, Oct. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
70 FR 22205, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part provides for the uniform direct funding of Bureau-operated and tribally operated day schools, boarding schools, and dormitories. This part applies to all schools, dormitories, and administrative units that are funded through the Indian School Equalization Program of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
§ 39.2
What definitions apply to terms in this part?
Act
means the No Child Left Behind Act, Public Law 107-110, enacted January 8, 2002. The No Child Left Behind Act reauthorizes and amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and the amended Education Amendments of 1978.
Agency
means an organizational unit of the Bureau which provides direct services to the governing body or bodies and members of one or more specified Indian Tribes. The term includes Bureau Area Offices only with respect to off-reservation boarding schools administered directly by such Offices.
Agency school board
means a body, the members of which are appointed by the school boards of the schools located within such agency, and the number of such members shall be determined by the Director in consultation with the affected tribes, except that, in agencies serving a single school, the school board of such school shall fulfill these duties.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, or his or her designee.
At no cost
means provided without charge, but does not preclude incidental fees normally charged to non-disabled students or their parents as a part of the regular education program.
Average Daily Membership (ADM)
means the aggregated ISEP-eligible membership of a school for a school year, divided by the number of school days in the school's submitted calendar.
Basic program
means the instructional program provided to all students at any age level exclusive of any supplemental programs that are not provided to all students in day or boarding schools.
Basic transportation miles
means the daily average of all bus miles logged for round trip home-to-school transportation of day students.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs in the Department of the Interior.
Bureau-funded school
means
(1) Bureau school;
(2) A contract or grant school; or
(3) A school for which assistance is provided under the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988.
Bureau school
means a Bureau-operated elementary or secondary day or boarding school or a Bureau-operated dormitory for students attending a school other than a Bureau school.
Count Week
means the last full week in September during which schools count their student enrollment for ISEP purposes.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Indian Education Programs in the Bureau of Indian Affairs or a designee.
Education Line Officer
means the Bureau official in charge of Bureau education programs and functions in an Agency who reports to the Director.
Eligible Indian student
means a student who:
(1) Is a member of, or is at least one-fourth degree Indian blood descendant of a member of, a tribe that is eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States through the Bureau of Indian Affairs to Indians because of their status as Indians;
(2) Resides on or near a reservation or meets the criteria for attendance at a Bureau off-reservation home-living school; and
(3) Is enrolled in a Bureau-funded school.
Home schooled
means a student who is not enrolled in a school and is receiving educational services at home at the parent's or guardian's initiative.
Homebound
means a student who is educated outside the classroom.
Individual supplemental services
means non-base academic services provided to eligible students. Individual supplemental services that are funded by additional WSUs are gifted and talented or language development services.
ISEP
means the Indian School Equalization Program.
Limited English Proficient (LEP)
means a child from a language background other than English who needs language assistance in his/her own language or in English in the schools. This child has sufficient difficulty speaking, writing, or understanding English to deny him/her the opportunity to learn successfully in English-only classrooms
and meets one or more of the following conditions:
(1) The child was born outside of the United States or the child's Native language is not English;
(2) The child comes from an environment where a language other than English is dominant; or
(3) The child is an American Indian or Alaska Native and comes from an environment where a language other than English has had a significant impact on the child's level of English language proficiency.
Local School Board
means a body chosen in accordance with the laws of the tribe to be served or, in the absence of such laws, elected by the parents of the Indian children attending the school. For a school serving a substantial number of students from different tribes:
(1) The members of the local school board shall be appointed by the tribal governing bodies affected; and
(2) The Secretary shall determine number of members in consultation with the affected tribes.
OIEP
means the Office of Indian Education Programs in the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Physical education
means the development of physical and motor fitness, fundamental motor skills and patterns, and skills in aquatics, dance, and individual and group games and sports (including intramural and lifetime sports). The term includes special physical education, adapted physical education, movement education, and motor development.
Resident
means a student who is residing at a boarding school or dormitory during the weeks when student membership counts are conducted and is either:
(1) A member of the instructional program in the same boarding school in which the student is counted as a resident; or
(2) Enrolled in and a current member of a public school or another Bureau-funded school.
Residential program
means a program that provides room and board in a boarding school or dormitory to residents who are either:
(1) Enrolled in and are current members of a public school or Bureau-funded school; or
(2) Members of the instructional program in the same boarding school in which they are counted as residents and:
(i) Are officially enrolled in the residential program of a Bureau-operated or -funded school; and
(ii) Are actually receiving supplemental services provided to all students who are provided room and board in a boarding school or a dormitory.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a designated representative.
School
means a school funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. The term “school” does not include public, charter, or private schools.
School bus
means a passenger vehicle that is:
(1) Used to transport day students to and/or from home and the school; and
(2) Operated by an operator in the employ of, or under contract to, a Bureau-funded school, who is qualified to operate such a vehicle under Tribal, State or Federal regulations governing the transportation of students.
School day
means a day as defined by the submitted school calendar, as long as annual instructional hours are as they are reflected in § 39.213, excluding passing time, lunch, recess, and breaks.
Special education
means:
(1) Specially designed instruction, at no cost to the parents, to meet the unique needs of a child with a disability, including:
(i) Instruction conducted in the classroom, in the home, in hospitals and institutions, and in other settings; and
(ii) Instruction in physical education.
(2) The term includes each of the following, if it meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition:
(i) Speech-language pathology services, or any other related service, if the service is considered special education rather than a related service under State standards;
(1) Travel training; and
(2) Vocational education.
Specially designed instruction
means adapting, as appropriate, to the needs of an eligible child under this part, the content, methodology, or delivery or instruction:
(1) To address the unique needs of the child that result from the child's disability; and
(2) To ensure access of the child to the general curriculum, so that he or she can meet the educational standards within the jurisdiction of the public agency that apply to all children
Three-year average
means:
(1) For academic programs, the average daily membership of the 3 years before the current year of operation; and
(2) For the residential programs, the count period membership of the 3 years before the current year of operation.
Travel training
means providing instruction, as appropriate, to children with significant cognitive disabilities, and any other children with disabilities who require this instruction, to enable them to:
(1) Develop an awareness of the environment in which they live; and
(2) Learn the skills necessary to move efficiently and safely from place to place within that environment (
e.g.,
in school, in the home, at work, and in the community).
Tribally operated school
means an elementary school, secondary school, or dormitory that receives financial assistance for its operation under a contract, grant, or agreement with the Bureau under section 102, 103(a), or 208 of 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.,
or under the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988.
Vocational education
means organized educational programs that are directly related to the preparation of individuals for paid or unpaid employment, or for additional preparation for a career requiring other than a baccalaureate or advanced degree.
Unimproved roads
means unengineered earth roads that do not have adequate gravel or other aggregate surface materials applied and do not have drainage ditches or shoulders.
Weighted Student Unit
means:
(1) The measure of student membership adjusted by the weights or ratios used as factors in the Indian School Equalization Formula; and
(2) The factor used to adjust the weighted student count at any school as the result of other adjustments made under this part.
§ 39.3
Information collection.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person is required to respond to, nor shall any person be subject to a penalty for failure to comply with a collection of information, subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) (PRA), unless that collection of information displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control Number. This part contains in §§ 39.410 and 39.502 collections of information subject to the PRA. These collections have been approved by OMB under control number 1076-0163.

# Subpart B—Indian School Equalization Formula

# Source:
70 FR 22205, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.100
What is the Indian School Equalization Formula?
The Indian School Equalization Formula (ISEF) was established to allocate Indian School Equalization Program (ISEP) funds. OIEP applies ISEF to determine funding allocation for Bureau-funded schools as described in §§ 39.204 through 39.206.
§ 39.101
Does ISEF assess the actual cost of school operations?
No. ISEF does not attempt to assess the actual cost of school operations either at the local level or in the aggregate at the national level. ISEF provides a method of distribution of funds appropriated by Congress for all schools.

# Base and Supplemental Funding
§ 39.102
What is academic base funding?
Academic base funding is the ADM times the weighted student unit.
§ 39.103
What are the factors used to determine base funding?
To determine base funding, schools must use the factors shown in the following table. The school must apply the appropriate factor to each student for funding purposes.
Grade level
Base
academic
funding factor
Base
residential
funding factor
Kindergarten
1.15
NA
Grades 1-3
1.38
1.75
Grades 4-6
1.15
1.6
Grades 7-8
1.38
1.6
Grades 9-12
1.5
1.6
§ 39.104
How must a school's base funding provide for students with disabilities?
(a) Each school must provide for students with disabilities by:
(1) Reserving 15 percent of academic base funding to support special education programs; and
(2) Providing resources through residential base funding to meet the needs of students with disabilities under the National Criteria for Home-Living Situations.
(b) A school may spend all or part of the 15 percent academic base funding reserved under paragraph (a)(1) of this section on school-wide programs to benefit all students (including those without disabilities) only if the school can document that it has met all needs of students with disabilities with such funds, and after having done so, there are unspent funds remaining from such funds.
§ 39.105
Are additional funds available for special education?
(a) Schools may supplement the 15 percent base academic funding reserved under § 39.104 for special education with funds available under part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). To obtain part B funds, the school must submit an application to OIEP. IDEA funds are available only if the school demonstrates that funds reserved under § 39.104(a) are inadequate to pay for services needed by all eligible ISEP students with disabilities.
(b) The Bureau will facilitate the delivery of IDEA part B funding by:
(1) Providing technical assistance to schools in completing the application for the funds; and
(2) Providing training to Bureau staff to improve the delivery of part B funds.
§ 39.106
Who is eligible for special education funding?
To receive ISEP special education funding, a student must be under 22 years old and must not have received a high school diploma or its equivalent on the first day of eligible attendance. The following minimum age requirements also apply:
(a) To be counted as a kindergarten student, a child must be at least 5 years old by December 31; and
(b) To be counted as a first grade student; a child must be at least 6 years old by December 31.
§ 39.107
Are schools allotted supplemental funds for special student and/or school costs?
Yes, schools are allotted supplemental funds for special student and/or school costs. ISEF provides additional funds to schools through add-on weights (called special cost factors). ISEF adds special cost factors as shown in the following table.
Cost Factor
For more information see
Gifted and talented students
§§ 39.110 through 39.121
Students with language development needs
§§ 39.130 through 39.137
Small school size
§§ 39.140 through 39.156
Geographic isolation of the school
§ 39.160

# Gifted and Talented Programs
§ 39.110
Can ISEF funds be distributed for the use of gifted and talented students?
Yes, ISEF funds can be distributed for the provision of services for gifted and talented students.
§ 39.111
What does the term gifted and talented mean?
The term gifted and talented means students, children, or youth who:
(a) Give evidence of high achievement capability in areas such as intellectual, creative, artistic, or leadership capacity, or in specific academic fields; and
(b) Need services or activities not ordinarily provided by the school in order to fully develop those capabilities.
§ 39.112
What is the limit on the number of students who are gifted and talented?
There is no limit on the number of students that a school can classify as gifted and talented.
§ 39.113
What are the special accountability requirements for the gifted and talented program?
If a school identifies more than 13 percent of its student population as gifted and talented the Bureau will immediately audit the school's gifted and talented program to ensure that all identified students:
(a) Meet the gifted and talented requirement in the regulations; and
(b) Are receiving gifted and talented services.
§ 39.114
What characteristics may qualify a student as gifted and talented for purposes of supplemental funding?
To be funded as gifted and talented under this part, a student must be identified as gifted and talented in at least one of the following areas.
(a)
Intellectual Ability
means scoring in the top 5 percent on a statistically valid and reliable measurement tool of intellectual ability.
(b)
Creativity/Divergent Thinking
means scoring in the top 5 percent of performance on a statistically valid and reliable measurement tool of creativity/divergent thinking.
(c)
Academic Aptitude/Achievement
means scoring in the top 15 percent of academic performance in a total subject area score on a statistically valid and reliable measurement tool of academic achievement/aptitude, or a standardized assessment, such as an NRT or CRT.
(d)
Leadership
means the student is recognized as possessing the ability to lead, guide, or influence the actions of others as measured by objective standards that a reasonable person of the community would believe demonstrates that the student possess leadership skills. These standards include evidence from surveys, supportive documentation portfolios, elected or appointed positions in school, community, clubs and organization, awards documenting leadership capabilities. No school can identify more than 15 percent of its student population as gifted and talented through the leadership category.
(e)
Visual and Performing Arts
means outstanding ability to excel in any imaginative art form; including, but not limited to, drawing, printing, sculpture, jewelry making, music, dance, speech, debate, or drama as documented from surveys, supportive documentation portfolios, awards from judged or juried competitions. No school can identify more than 15 percent of its student population as gifted and talented through the visual and performing arts category.
§ 39.115
How are eligible gifted and talented students identified and nominated?
(a) Screening can be completed annually to identify potentially eligible students. A student may be nominated for gifted and talented designation using the criteria in § 39.114 by any of the following:
(1) A teacher or other school staff;
(2) Another student;
(3) A community member;
(4) A parent or legal guardian; or
(5) The student himself or herself.
(b) Students can be nominated based on information regarding the student's abilities from any of the following sources:
(1) Collections of work;
(2) Audio/visual tapes;
(3) School grades;
(4) Judgment of work by qualified individuals knowledgeable about the student's performances (
e.g.
, artists, musicians, poets, historians, etc.);
(5) Interviews or observations; or
(6) Information from other sources.
(c) The school must have written parental consent to collect documentation of gifts and talents under paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 39.116
How does a school determine who receives gifted and talented services?
(a) To determine who receives gifted and talented funding, the school must use qualified professionals to perform a multi-disciplinary assessment. The assessment may include the examination of work samples or performance appropriate to the area under consideration. The school must have the parent or guardian's written permission to conduct individual assessments or evaluations. Assessments under this section must meet the following standards:
(1) The assessment must use assessment instruments specified in § 39.114
for each of the five criteria for which the student is nominated;
(2) If the assessment uses a multi-criteria evaluation, that evaluation must be an unbiased evaluation based on student needs and abilities;
(3) Indicators for visual and performing arts and leadership may be determined based on national, regional, or local criteria; and
(4) The assessment may use student portfolios.
(b) A multi-disciplinary team will review the assessment results to determine eligibility for gifted and talented services. The purpose of the team is to determine eligibility and placement to receive gifted and talented services.
(1) Team members may include nominator, classroom teacher, qualified professional who conducted the assessment, local experts as needed, and other appropriate personnel such as the principal and/or a counselor.
(2) A minimum of three team members is required to determine eligibility.
(3) The team will design a specific education plan to provide gifted and talented services related in the areas identified.
§ 39.117
How does a school provide gifted and talented services for a student?
Gifted and talented services are provided through or under the supervision of highly qualified professional teachers. To provide gifted and talented services for a student, a school must take the steps in this section.
(a) The multi-disciplinary team formed under § 39.116(b) will sign a statement of agreement for placement of services based on documentation reviewed.
(b) The student's parent or guardian must give written permission for the student to participate.
(c) The school must develop a specific education plan that contains:
(1) The date of placement;
(2) The date services will begin;
(3) The criterion from § 39.114 for which the student is receiving services and the student's performance level;
(4) Measurable goals and objectives; and
(5) A list of staff responsible for each service that the school is providing.
§ 39.118
How does a student receive gifted and talented services in subsequent years?
For each student receiving gifted and talented services, the school must conduct a yearly evaluation of progress, file timely progress reports, and update the specific education plan.
(a) If a school identifies a student as gifted and talented based on § 39.114 (a), (b), or (c), then the student does not need to reapply for the gifted and talented program. However, the student must be reevaluated at least every 3 years through the 10th grade to verify eligibility for funding.
(b) If a school identifies a student as gifted and talented based on § 39.114 (d) or (e), the student must be reevaluated annually for the gifted and talented program.
§ 39.119
When must a student leave a gifted and talented program?
A student must leave the gifted and talented program when either:
(a) The student has received all of the available services that can meet the student's needs;
(b) The student no longer meets the criteria that have qualified him or her for the program; or
(c) The parent or guardian removes the student from the program.
§ 39.120
How are gifted and talented services provided?
In providing services under this section, the school must:
(a) Provide a variety of programming services to meet the needs of the students;
(b) Provide the type and duration of services identified in the Individual Education Plan established for each student; and
(c) Maintain individual student files to provide documentation of process and services; and
(d) Maintain confidentiality of student records under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA).
§ 39.121
What is the WSU for gifted and talented students?
The WSU for a gifted and talented student is the base academic weight (see § 39.103) subtracted from 2.0. The following table shows the gifted and talented weights obtained using this procedure.
Grade level
Gifted and talented WSU
Kindergarten
0.85
Grades 1 to 3
0.62
Grades 4 to 6
0.85
Grades 7 to 8
0.62
Grades 9 to 12
0.50

# Language Development Programs
§ 39.130
Can ISEF funds be used for Language Development Programs?
Yes, schools can use ISEF funds to implement Language Development programs that demonstrate the positive effects of Native language programs on students' academic success and English proficiency. Funds can be distributed to a total aggregate instructional weight of 0.13 for each eligible student.
§ 39.131
What is a Language Development Program?
A Language Development program is one that serves students who either:
(a) Are not proficient in spoken or written English;
(b) Are not proficient in any language;
(c) Are learning their Native language for the purpose of maintenance or language restoration and enhancement;
(d) Are being instructed in their Native language; or
(e) Are learning non-language subjects in their Native language.
§ 39.132
Can a school integrate Language Development programs into its regular instructional program?
A school may offer Language Development programs to students as part of its regular academic program. Language Development does not have to be offered as a stand-alone program.
§ 39.133
Who decides how Language Development funds can be used?
Tribal governing bodies or local school boards decide how their funds for Language Development programs will be used in the instructional program to meet the needs of their students.
§ 39.134
How does a school identify a Limited English Proficient student?
A student is identified as limited English proficient (LEP) by using a nationally recognized scientifically research-based test.
§ 39.135
What services must be provided to an LEP student?
A school must provide services that assist each LEP student to:
(a) Become proficient in English and, to the extent possible, proficient in their Native language; and
(b) Meet the same challenging academic content and student academic achievement standards that all students are expected to meet under 20 U.S.C. 6311(b)(1).
§ 39.136
What is the WSU for Language Development programs?
Language Development programs are funded at 0.13 WSUs per student.
§ 39.137
May schools operate a language development program without a specific appropriation from Congress?
Yes, a school may operate a language development program without a specific appropriation from Congress, but any funds used for such a program must come from existing ISEP funds. When Congress specifically appropriates funds for Indian or Native languages, the factor to support the language development program will be no more than 0.25 WSU.

# Small School Adjustment
§ 39.140
How does a school qualify for a Small School Adjustment?
A school will receive a small school adjustment if either:
(a) Its average daily membership (ADM) is less than 100 students; or
(b) It serves lower grades and has a diploma-awarding high school component with an average instructional daily membership of less than 100 students.
§ 39.141
What is the amount of the Small School Adjustment?
(a) A school with a 3-year ADM of 50 or fewer students will receive an adjustment equivalent to an additional 12.5 base WSU; or
(b) A school with a 3-year ADM of 51 to 99 students will use the following formula to determine the number of WSU for its adjustment. With X being the ADM, the formula is as follows:
WSU adjustment = ((100−X)/200)*X
§ 39.143
What is a small high school?
For purposes of this part, a small high school:
(a) Is accredited under 25 U.S.C. 2001(b);
(b) Is staffed with highly qualified teachers;
(c) Operates any combination of grades 9 through 12;
(d) Offers high school diplomas; and
(e) Has an ADM of fewer than 100 students.
§ 39.144
What is the small high school adjustment?
(a) The small high school adjustment is a WSU adjustment given to a small high school that meets both of the following criteria:
(1) It has a 3-year average daily membership (ADM) of less than 100 students; and
(2) It operates as part of a school that during the 2003-04 school year also included lower grades.
(b) The following table shows the WSU adjustment given to small high schools. In the table, “X” stands for the ADM.
ADM of high school
component
Amount of small high school adjustment
School receives a component small school adjustment under § 39.141
50 or fewer students
6.25 base WSU
Yes.
51 to 99 students
determined using the following formula: WSU = ((100-X)/200)*X/2
Yes.
50 or fewer students
12.5 base WSU
No.
51 to 99 students
determined using the following formula: WSU = ((100-X)/200)*X
No.
§ 39.145
Can a school receive both a small school adjustment and a small high school adjustment?
A school that meets the criteria in § 39.140 can receive both a small school adjustment and a small high school adjustment. The following table shows the total amount of adjustments for eligible schools by average daily membership (ADM) category.
ADM—entire school
ADM—high school
component
Small school adjustment
Small high school
adjustment
Total
adjustment
1-50
NA
12.5
NA
12.5
1-50
1-50
12.5
6.25
18.75
51-99
1-50
2
12.5-0.5
6.25
18.75-6.75
51-99
51-99
1
12.5-0.5
2
6.25-0.25
18.75-0.7
99
1-50
0.5
12.5
12.5
99
51-99
0.5
2
12.5-0.5
12.5-0.5
1
The amount of the adjustment is within this range. The exact figure depends upon the results obtained using the formula in § 39.141.
2
The amount of the adjustment is within this range. The exact figure depends upon the results obtained using the formula in § 39.144.
§ 39.146
Is there an adjustment for small residential programs?
In order to compensate for the additional costs of operating a small residential program, OIEP will add to the total WSUs of each qualifying school as shown in the following table:
Type of residential program
Number of WSUs added
Residential student count of 50 or fewer ISEP-eligible students
12.5.
Residential student count of between 51 and 99 ISEP-eligible students
Determined by the formula ((100-X)/200))X, where X equals the residential student count.

# Geographic Isolation Adjustment
§ 39.160
Does ISEF provide supplemental funding for extraordinary costs related to a school's geographic isolation?
Yes. Havasupai Elementary School, for as long as it remains in its present location, will be awarded an additional cost factor of 12.5 WSU.

# Subpart C—Administrative Procedures, Student Counts, and Verifications

# Source:
70 FR 22205, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.200
What is the purpose of the Indian School Equalization Formula?
OIEP uses the Indian School Equalization Formula (ISEF) to distribute Indian School Equalization Program (ISEP) appropriations equitably to Bureau-funded schools.
§ 39.201
Does ISEF reflect the actual cost of school operations?
ISEF does not attempt to assess the actual cost of school operations either at the local school level or in the aggregate nationally. ISEF is a relative distribution of available funds at the local school level by comparison with all other Bureau-funded schools.
§ 39.202
What are the definitions of terms used in this subpart?
Homebound
means a student who is educated outside the classroom.
Home schooled
means a student who is not enrolled in a school and is receiving educational services at home at the parent's or guardian's initiative.
School day
means a day as defined by the submitted school calendar, as long as annual instructional hours are as they are reflected in § 39.213, excluding passing time, lunch, recess, and breaks.
Three-year average means:
(1) For academic programs, the average daily membership of the 3 years before the current year of operation; and
(2) For the residential programs, the count period membership of the 3 years before the current year of operation.
§ 39.203
When does OIEP calculate a school's allotment?
OIEP calculates a school's allotment no later than July 1. Schools must submit final ADM enrollment figures no later than June 15.
§ 39.204
How does OIEP calculate ADM?
OIEP calculates ADM by:
(a) Adding the total enrollment figures from periodic reports received from each Bureau-funded school; and
(b) Dividing the total enrollment for each school by the number of days in the school's reporting period.
§ 39.205
How does OIEP calculate a school's total WSUs for the school year?
(a) OIEP will add the weights obtained from the calculations in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section to obtain the total weighted student units (WSUs) for each school.
(1) Each year's ADM is multiplied by the applicable weighted student unit for each grade level;
(2) Calculate any supplemental WSUs generated by the students; and
(3) Calculate any supplemental WSUs generated by the schools.
(b) The total WSU for the school year is the sum of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(3) of this section.
§ 39.206
How does OIEP calculate the value of one WSU?
(a) To calculate the appropriated dollar value of one WSU, OIEP divides the systemwide average number of WSUs for the previous 3 years into the current year's appropriation.
(b) To calculate the average WSU for a 3-year period:
(1)
Step 1.
Add together each year's total WSU (calculated under paragraph (b) of this section); and
(2)
Step 2.
Divide the sum obtained in step 1 by 3.
§ 39.207
How does OIEP determine a school's funding for the school year?
To determine a school's funding for the school year, OIEP uses the following seven-step process:
(a)
Step 1.
Multiply the appropriate base academic and/or residential weight from § 39.103 by the number of students in each grade level category.
(b)
Step 2.
Multiply the number of students eligible for supplemental program funding under § 39.107 by the weights for the program.
(c)
Step 3.
Calculate the school-based supplemental weights under § 639.107.
(d)
Step 4.
Add together the sums obtained in steps 1 through 3 to obtain each school's total WSU.
(e)
Step 5.
Add together the total WSUs for all Bureau-funded schools.
(f)
Step 6.
Calculate the value of a WSU by dividing the current school year's funds by the average total WSUs as calculated under step 5 for the previous 3 years.
(g)
Step 7.
Multiply each school's WSU total by the base value of one WSU to determine funding for that school.
§ 39.208
How are ISEP funds distributed?
(a) On July 1, schools will receive 80 percent of their funds as determined in § 39.207.
(b) On December 1, the balance will be distributed to all schools after verification of the school count and any adjustments made through the appeals process for the third year.
§ 39.209
When may a school count a student for membership purposes?
If a student is enrolled, is in attendance during any of the first 10 days of school, and receives at least 5 days' instruction, the student is deemed to be enrolled all 10 days and shall be counted for ADM purposes. The first 10 days of school, for purposes of this section, are determined by the calendar that the school submits to OIEP.
(a) For ISEP purposes, a school can add a student to the membership when he or she has been enrolled and has received a full day of instruction from the school.
(b) Except as provided in § 39.210, to be counted for ADM, a student dropped under § 39.209 must:
(1) Be re-enrolled; and
(2) Receive a full day of instruction from the school.
§ 39.210
When must a school drop a student from its membership?
If a student is absent for 10 consecutive school days, the school must drop that student from the membership for ISEP purposes of that school on the 11th day.
§ 39.211
What other categories of students can a school count for membership purposes?
A school can count other categories of students for membership purposes as shown in the following table.
Type of
student
Circumstances under which student can be included in the school's membership
(a) Homebound
(1) The student is temporarily confined to the home for some or all of the school day for medical, family emergency, or other reasons required by law or regulation;
(2) The student is being provided by the school with at least 5 documented contact hours each week of academic services by certified educational personnel; and
(3) Appropriate documentations is on file at the school.
(b) Located in an institutional setting outside of the school
The school is either:
(1) Paying for the student to receive educational services from the facility; or
(2) Providing educational services by certified school staff for at least 5 documented contact hours each week.
(c) Taking college courses during the school day
The student is both:
(1) Concurrently enrolled in, and receiving credits for both the school's courses and college courses; and
(2) In physical attendance at the school at least 3 documented contact hours per day.
(d) Taking distance learning courses
The student is both:
(1) Receiving high school credit for grades; and
(2) In physical attendance at the school at least 3 documented contact hours per day.
(e) Taking internet courses
The student is both:
(1) Receiving high school credit for grades; and
(2) Taking the courses at the school site under a teacher's supervision.
§ 39.212
Can a student be counted as enrolled in more than one school?
Yes, if a student attends more than one school during an academic year, each school may count the student as enrolled once the student meets the criteria in 39.209.
§ 39.213
Will the Bureau fund children being home schooled?
No, the Bureau will not fund any child that is being home schooled.
§ 39.214
What is the minimum number of instructional hours required in order to be considered a full-time educational program?
A full time program provides the following number of instructional/student hours to the corresponding grade level:
Grade
Hours
K
720
1-3
810
4-8
900
9-12
970
§ 39.215
Can a school receive funding for any part-time students?
(a) A school can receive funding for the following part-time students:
(1) Kindergarten students enrolled in a 2-hour program; and
(2) Grade 7-12 students enrolled in at least half but less than a full instructional day.
(b) The school must count students classified as part-time at 50 percent of their basic instructional WSU value.

# Residential Programs
§ 39.216
How does ISEF fund residential programs?
Residential programs are funded on a WSU basis using a formula that takes into account the number of nights of service per week. Funding for residential programs is based on the average of the 3 previous years' residential WSUs.
§ 39.217
How are students counted for the purpose of funding residential services?
For a student to be considered in residence for purposes of this subpart, the school must be able to document that the student was:
(a) In residence at least one night during the first full week of October;
(b) In residence at least one night during the week preceding the first full week in October;
(c) In residence at least one night during the week following the first full week in October; and
(d) Present for both the after school count and the midnight count at least one night during each week specified in this section.
§ 39.218
Are there different formulas for different levels of residential services?
(a) Residential services are funded as shown in the following table:
If a residential program operates . . .
Each student is funded at the level of . . .
(1) 4 nights per week or less
Total WSU × 4/7.
(2) 5, 6 or 7 nights per week
Total WSU × 7/7.
(b) In order to qualify for residential services funding under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, a school must document that at least 10 percent of residents are present on 3 of the 4 weekends during the count period.
(c) At least 50 percent of the residency levels established during the count period must be maintained every month for the remainder of the school year.
(d) A school may obtain waivers from the requirements of this section if there are health or safety justifications.
§ 39.219
What happens if a residential program does not maintain residency levels required by this subpart?
Each school must maintain its declared nights of service per week as certified in its submitted school calendar. For each month that a school does not maintain 25 percent of the residency shown in its submitted calendar, the school will lose one-tenth of its current year allocation.
§ 39.220
What reports must residential programs submit to comply with this subpart?
Residential programs must report their monthly counts to the Director on the last school day of the month. To be counted, a student must have been
in residence at least 10 nights during each full school month.
§ 39.221
What is a full school month?
A full school month is each 30-day period following the first day that residential services are provided to students based on the school residential calendar.

# Phase-in Period
§ 39.230
How will the provisions of this subpart be phased in?
The calculation of the three-year rolling average of ADM for each school and for the entire Bureau-funded school system will be phased-in as shown in the following table.
Time period
How OIEP must calculate ADM
(a) First school year after May 31, 2005
Use the prior 3 years' count period to create membership for funding purposes
(b) Second school year after May 31, 2005
(1) The academic program will use the previous year's ADM school year and the 2 prior years' count periods; and
(2) The residential program will use the previous year's count period and the 2 prior years' count weeks
(c) Each succeeding school year after May 31, 2005
Add one year of ADM or count period and drop one year of prior count weeks until both systems are operating on a 3-year rolling average using the previous 3 years' count after period or ADM, respectively.

# Subpart D—Accountability

# Source:
70 FR 22205, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.401
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The purpose of this subpart is to ensure accountability of administrative officials by creating procedures that are systematic and can be verified by a random independent outside auditing procedures. These procedures will ensure the equitable distribution of funds among schools.
§ 39.402
What definitions apply to terms used in this subpart?
Administrative officials
means any persons responsible for managing and operating a school, including the school supervisor, the chief school administrator, tribal officials, Education Line Officers, and the Director, OIEP.
Director
means the Director of the Office of Indian Education Programs of the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Education Line Officer
means the Bureau official in charge of Bureau education programs and functions in an Agency who reports to the Director.
§ 39.403
What certification is required?
(a) Each school must maintain an individual file on each student receiving basic educational and supplemental services. The file must contain written documentation of the following:
(1) Each student's eligibility and attendance records;
(2) A complete listing of all supplemental services provided, including all necessary documentation required by statute and regulations (
e.g.
, a current and complete Individual Education Plan for each student receiving supplemental services); and
(3) Documentation of expenditures and program delivery for student transportation to and from school provided by commercial carriers.
(b) The School must maintain the following files in a central location:
(1) The school's ADM and supplemental program counts and residential count;
(2) Transportation related documentation, such as school bus mileage, bus routes;
(3) A list of students transported to and from school;
(4) An electronic student count program or database;
(5) Class record books;
(6) Supplemental program class record books;
(7) For residential programs, residential student attendance documentation;
(8) Evidence of teacher certification; and
(9) The school's accreditation certificate.
(c) The Director must maintain a record of required certifications for ELOs, specialists, and school superintendents in a central location.
§ 39.404
What is the certification and verification process?
(a) Each school must:
(1) Certify that the files required by § 39.403 are complete and accurate; and
(2) Compile a student roster that includes a complete list of all students by grade, days of attendance, and supplemental services.
(b) The chief school administrator and the president of the school board are responsible for certifying the school's ADM and residential count is true and accurate to the best of their knowledge or belief and is supported by appropriate documentation.
(c) OIEP's education line officer (ELO) will annually review the following to verify that the information is true and accurate and is supported by program documentation:
(1) The eligibility of every student;
(2) The school's ADM and supplemental program counts and residential count;
(3) Evidence of accreditation;
(4) Documentation for all provided basic and supplemental services, including all necessary documentation required by statute and regulations (
e.g.
, a current and complete Individual Education Plan for each student receiving supplemental services); and
(5) Documentation required by subpart G of this part for student transportation to and from school provided by commercial carriers.
§ 39.405
How will verifications be conducted?
The eligibility of every student shall be verified. The ELO will take a random sampling of five days with a minimum of one day per grading period to verify the information in § 39.404(c). The ELO will verify the count for the count period and verify residency during the remainder of the year.
§ 39.406
What documentation must the school maintain for additional services it provides?
Every school must maintain a file on each student receiving additional services. (Additional services include homebound services, institutional services, distance courses, Internet courses or college services.) The school must certify, and its records must show, that:
(a) Each homebound or institutionalized student is receiving 5 contact hours each week by certified educational personnel;
(b) Each student taking college, distance or internet courses is in physical attendance at the school for at least 3 certified contact hours per day.
§ 39.407
How long must a school maintain records?
The responsible administrative official for each school must maintain records relating to ISEP, supplemental services, and transportation-related expenditures. The official must maintain these records in appropriate retrievable storage for at least the four years prior to the current school year, unless Federal records retention schedules require a longer period.
§ 39.408
What are the responsibilities of administrative officials?
Administrative officials have the following responsibilities:
(a) Applying the appropriate standards in this part for classifying and counting ISEP eligible Indian students at the school for formula funding purposes;
(b) Accounting for and reporting student transportation expenditures;
(c) Providing training and supervision to ensure that appropriate standards are adhered to in counting students and accounting for student transportation expenditures;
(d) Submitting all reports and data on a timely basis; and
(e) Taking appropriate disciplinary action for failure to comply with requirements of this part.
§ 39.409
How does the OIEP Director ensure accountability?
(a) The Director of OIEP must ensure accountability in student counts and student transportation by doing all of the following:
(1) Conducting annual independent and random field audits of the processes and reports of at least one school per OIEP line office to ascertain the accuracy of Bureau line officers' reviews;
(2) Hearing and making decisions on appeals from school officials;
(3) Reviewing reports to ensure that standards and policies are applied consistently, education line officers treat schools fairly and equitably, and the
Bureau takes appropriate administrative action for failure to follow this part; and
(4) Reporting the results of the findings and determinations under this section to the appropriate tribal governing body.
(b) The purpose of the audit required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section is to ensure that the procedures outlined in these regulations are implemented. To conduct the audit required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, OIEP will select an independent audit firm that will:
(1) Select a statistically valid audit sample of recent student counts and student transportation reports; and
(2) Analyze these reports to determine adherence to the requirements of this part and accuracy in reporting.
§ 39.410
What qualifications must an audit firm meet to be considered for auditing ISEP administration?
To be considered for auditing ISEP administration under this subpart, an independent audit firm must:
(a) Be a licensed Certified Public Accountant Firm that meets all requirements for conducting audits under the Federal Single Audit Act;
(b) Not be under investigation or sanction for violation of professional audit standards or ethics;
(c) Certify that it has conducted a conflict of interests check and that no conflict exists; and
(d) Be selected through a competitive bidding process.
§ 39.411
How will the auditor report its findings?
(a) The auditor selected under § 39.410 must:
(1) Provide an initial draft report of its findings to the governing board or responsible Federal official for the school(s) involved; and
(2) Solicit, consider, and incorporate a response to the findings, where submitted, in the final audit report.
(b) The auditor must submit a final report to the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs and all tribes served by each school involved. The report must include all documented exceptions to the requirements of this part, including those exceptions that:
(1) The auditor regards as negligible;
(2) The auditor regards as significant, or as evidence of incompetence on the part of responsible officials, and that must be resolved in a manner similar to significant audit exceptions in a fiscal audit; or
(3) Involve fraud and abuse.
(c) The auditor must immediately report exceptions involving fraud and abuse directly to the Department of the Interior Inspector General's office.
§ 39.412
What sanctions apply for failure to comply with this subpart?
(a) The employer of a responsible administrative official must take appropriate personnel action if the official:
(1) Submits false or fraudulent ISEP-related counts;
(2) Submits willfully inaccurate counts of student participation in weighted program areas; or
(3) Certifies or verifies submissions described in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.
(b) Unless prohibited by law, the employer must report:
(1) Notice of final Federal personnel action to the tribal governing body and tribal school board; and
(2) Notice of final tribal or school board personnel action to the Director of OIEP.
§ 39.413
Can a school appeal the verification of the count?
Yes, a school may appeal to the Director any administrative action disallowing any academic, transportation, supplemental program or residential count. In this appeal, the school may provide evidence to indicate the student's eligibility, membership or residency or adequacy of a program for all or a portion of school year. The school must follow the applicable appeals process in 25 CFR part 2 or 25 CFR part 900, subpart L.

# Subpart E—Contingency Fund

# Source:
70 FR 22205, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.500
What emergency and contingency funds are available?
The Secretary:
(a) Must reserve 1 percent of funds from the allotment formula to meet emergencies and unforeseen contingencies affecting educational programs;
(b) Can carry over to the next fiscal year a maximum of 1 percent the current year funds; and
(c) May distribute all funds in excess of 1 percent equally to all schools or distribute excess as a part of ISEP.
§ 39.501
What is an emergency or unforeseen contingency?
An emergency or unforeseen contingency is an event that meets all of the following criteria:
(a) It could not be planned for;
(b) It is not the result of mismanagement, malfeasance, or willful neglect;
(c) It is not covered by an insurance policy in force at the time of the event;
(d) The Assistant Secretary determines that Bureau cannot reimburse the emergency from the facilities emergency repair fund; and
(e) It could not have been prevented by prudent action by officials responsible for the educational program.
§ 39.502
How does a school apply for contingency funds?
To apply for contingency funds, a school must send a request to the ELO. The ELO must send the request to the Director for consideration within 48 hours of receipt. The Director will consider the severity of the event and will attempt to respond to the request as soon as possible, but in any event within 30 days.
§ 39.503
How can a school use contingency funds?
Contingency funds can be used only for education services and programs, including repair of educational facilities.
§ 39.504
May schools carry over contingency funds to a subsequent fiscal year?
Bureau-operated schools may carry over funds to the next fiscal year.
§ 39.505
What are the reporting requirements for the use of the contingency fund?
(a) At the end of each fiscal year, Bureau/OIEP shall send an annual report to Congress detailing how the Contingency Funds were used during the previous fiscal year.
(b) By October 1 of each year, the Bureau must send a letter to each school and each tribe operating a school listing the allotments from the Contingency Fund.

# Subpart F—School Board Training Expenses

# Source:
70 FR 22205, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.600
Are Bureau-operated school board expenses funded by ISEP limited?
Yes. Bureau-operated schools are limited to $8,000 or one percent (1%) of ISEP allotted funds (not to exceed $15,000).
§ 39.601
Is school board training for Bureau-operated schools considered a school board expense subject to the limitation?
No, school board training for Bureau-operated schools is not considered a school board expense subject to the limitation in § 39.600.
§ 39.603
Is school board training required for all Bureau-funded schools?
Yes. Any new member of a local school board or an agency school board must complete 40 hours of training within one year of appointment, provided that such training is recommended, but is not required, for a tribal governing body that serves in the capacity of a school board.
§ 39.604
Is there a separate weight for school board training at Bureau-operated schools?
Yes. There is an ISEP weight not to exceed 1.2 WSUs to cover school board training and expenses at Bureau-operated schools.

# Subpart G—Student Transportation

# Source:
70 FR 22205, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.700
What is the purpose of this subpart?
(a) This subpart covers how transportation mileage and funds for schools are calculated under the ISEP transportation program. The program funds transportation of students from home to school and return.
(b) To use this part effectively, a school should:
(1) Determine its eligibility for funds using the provisions of §§ 39.702 through 39.708;
(2) Calculate its transportation miles using the provisions of §§ 39.710 and 39.711; and
(3) Submit the required reports as required by §§ 39.721 and 39.722.
§ 39.701
What definitions apply to terms used in this subpart?
ISEP
means the Indian School Equalization Program.
Transportation mileage count week
means the last full week in September.
Unimproved roads
means unengineered earth roads that do not have adequate gravel or other aggregate surface materials applied and do not have drainage ditches or shoulders.

# Eligibility for Funds
§ 39.702
Can a school receive funds to transport residential students using commercial transportation?
A school transporting students by commercial bus, train, airplane, or other commercial modes of transportation will be funded at the cost of the commercial ticket for:
(a) The trip from home to school in the Fall;
(b) The round-trip return home at Christmas; and
(c) The return trip home at the end of the school year.
§ 39.703
What ground transportation costs are covered for students traveling by commercial transportation?
This section applies only if a school transports residential students by commercial bus, train or airplane from home to school. The school may receive funds for the ground miles that the school has to drive to deliver the students or their luggage from the bus, train, or plane terminal to the school.
§ 39.704
Are schools eligible to receive chaperone expenses to transport residential students?
Yes. Schools may receive funds for actual chaperone expenses, excluding salaries, during the transportation of students to and from home at the beginning and end of the school year and at Christmas.
§ 39.705
Are schools eligible for transportation funds to transport special education students?
Yes. A school that transports a special education student from home to a treatment center and back to home on a daily basis as required by the student's Individual Education Plan may count those miles for day student funding.
§ 39.706
Are peripheral dormitories eligible for day transportation funds?
Yes. If the peripheral dormitory is required to transport dormitory students to the public school, the dormitory may count those miles driven transporting students to the public school for day transportation funding.
§ 39.707
Which student transportation expenses are currently not eligible for Student Transportation Funding?
(a) The following transportation expenses are currently not eligible for transportation funding, however the data will be collected under the provisions in this subpart:
(1) Fuel and maintenance runs;
(2) Transportation home for medical or other emergencies;
(3) Transportation from school to treatment or special services programs;
(4) Transportation to after-school programs; and
(5) Transportation for day and boarding school students to attend instructional programs less than full-time at locations other than the school reporting the mileage.
(b) Examples of after-school programs covered by paragraph (a)(4) of this section include:
(1) Athletics;
(2) Band;
(3) Detention;
(4) Tutoring, study hall and special classes; and
(5) Extra-curricular activities such as arts and crafts.
§ 39.708
Are miles generated by non-ISEP eligible students eligible for transportation funding?
No. Only miles generated by ISEP-eligible students enrolled in and attending a school are eligible for student transportation funding.

# Calculating Transportation Miles
§ 39.710
How does a school calculate annual bus transportation miles for day students?
To calculate the total annual bus transportation miles for day students, a school must use the appropriate formula from this section. In the formulas, Tu = Miles driven on Tuesday of the transportation mileage count week, W = Miles driven on Wednesday of the transportation mileage count week, and Th = Miles driven on Thursday of the transportation mileage count week.
(a) For ISEP-eligible day students whose route is entirely over improved roads, calculate miles using the following formula:
ER28AP05.087
(b) For ISEP-eligible day students whose route is partly over unimproved roads, calculate miles using the following three steps.
(1)
Step 1.
Apply the following formula to miles driven over improved roads only:
ER28AP05.088
(2)
Step 2.
Apply the following formula to miles driven over unimproved roads only:
ER28AP05.089
(3)
Step 3.
Add together the sums from steps 1 and 2 to obtain the total annual transportation miles.
§ 39.711
How does a school calculate annual bus transportation miles for residential students?
To calculate the total annual transportation miles for residential students, a school must use the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section.
(a) The school can receive funds for the following trips:
(1) Transportation to the school at the start of the school year;
(2) Round trip home at Christmas; and
(3) Return trip to home at the end of the school year.
(b) To calculate the actual miles driven to transport students from home to school at the start of the school year, add together the miles driven for all buses used to transport students from their homes to the school. If a school transports students over unimproved roads, the school must separate the number of miles driven for each bus into improved miles and unimproved miles. The number of miles driven is the sum of:
(1) The number of miles driven on improved roads; and
(2) The number of miles driven on unimproved roads multiplied by 1.2.
(c) The annual miles driven for each school is the sum of the mileage from paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section multiplied by 4.

# Reporting Requirements
§ 39.720
Why are there different reporting requirements for transportation data?
In order to construct an actual cost data base, residential and day schools must report data required by §§ 39.721 and 39.722.
§ 39.721
What transportation information must off-reservation boarding schools report?
(a) Each off-reservation boarding school that provides transportation must report annually the information required by this section. The report must:
(1) Be submitted to OIEP by August 1 and cover the preceding school year;
(2) Include a Charter/Commercial and Air Transportation Form signed and certified as complete and accurate by
the School Principal and the appropriate ELO; and
(3) Include the information required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Each annual transportation report must include the following information:
(1) Fixed vehicle costs, including: the number and type of buses, passenger size, and local GSA rental rate and duration of GSA contract;
(2) Variable vehicle costs;
(3) Mileage traveled to transport students to and from school on school days, to sites of special services, and to extra-curricular activities;
(4) Medical trips;
(5) Maintenance and Service costs; and
(6) Driver costs;
(7) All expenses referred to in § 39.707.
§ 39.722
What transportation information must day schools, on-reservation boarding schools and peripheral dormitory schools report?
(a) By August 1 of each year, all schools and peripheral dorms that provide transportation must submit a report that covers the preceding year. This report must include:
(1) Fixed vehicle costs and other costs, including: the number and type of buses, passenger size, and local GSA rental rate and duration of GSA contract;
(2) Variable vehicle costs;
(3) Mileage traveled to transport students to and from school on school days, to sites of special services, and to extra-curricular activities;
(4) Mileage driven for student medical trips;
(5) Costs of vehicle maintenance and service cost, including cost of miles driven to obtain maintenance and service;
(6) Driver costs; and
(7) All expenses referred to in § 39.707.
(b) In addition, all day schools and on-reservation boarding schools must include in their report a Day Student Transportation Form signed and certified as complete and accurate by the School Principal and the appropriate ELO.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 39.730
Which standards must student transportation vehicles meet?
All vehicles used by schools to transport students must meet or exceed all appropriate Federal motor vehicle safety standards and State or Tribal motor vehicle safety standards. The Bureau will not fund transportation mileage and costs incurred transporting students in vehicles that do not meet these standards.
§ 39.731
Can transportation time be used as instruction time for day school students?
No. Transportation time cannot be used as instruction time for day school students in meeting the minimum required hours for academic funding.
§ 39.732
How does OIEP allocate transportation funds to schools?
OIEP allocates transportation funds based on the types of transportation programs that the school provides. To allocate transportation funds OIEP:
(a) Multiplies the one-way commercial costs for all schools by four to identify the total commercial costs for all schools;
(b) Subtracts the commercial cost total from the appropriated transportation funds and allocates the balance of the transportation funds to each school with a per-mile rate;
(c) Divides the balance of funds by the sum of the annual day miles and the annual residential miles to identify a per-mile rate;
(d) For day transportation, multiplies the per-mile rate times the annual day miles for each school; and
(e) For residential transportation, multiplies the per mile rate times the annual transportation miles for each school.

# Subpart H—Determining the Amount Necessary To Sustain an Academic or Residential Program

# Source:
70 FR 22205, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 39.801
What is the formula to determine the amount necessary to sustain a school's academic or residential program?
(a) The Secretary's formula to determine the minimum annual amount necessary to sustain a Bureau-funded school's academic or residential program is as follows:
Student Unit Value × Weighted Student Unit = Annual Minimum Amount per student.
(b) Sections 39.802 through 39.807 explain the derivation of the formula in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) If the annual minimum amount calculated under this section and §§ 39.802 through 39.807 is not fully funded, OIEP will pro rate funds distributed to schools using the Indian School Equalization Formula.
§ 39.802
What is the student unit value in the formula?
The student unit value is the dollar value applied to each student in an academic or residential program. There are two types of student unit values: the student unit instructional value (SUIV) and the student unit residential value (SURV).
(a) The student unit instructional value (SUIV) applies to a student enrolled in an instructional program. It is an annually established ratio of 1.0 that represents a student in grades 4 through 6 of a typical non-residential program.
(b) The student unit residential value (SURV) applies to a residential student. It is an annually established ratio of 1.0 that represents a student in grades 4 through 6 of a typical residential program.
§ 39.803
What is a weighted student unit in the formula?
A weighted student unit is an adjusted ratio using factors in the Indian School Equalization Formula to establish educational priorities and to provide for the unique needs of specific students, such as:
(a) Students in grades kindergarten through 3 or grades 7 through 12;
(b) Special education students;
(c) Gifted and talented students;
(d) Distance education students;
(e) Vocational and industrial education students;
(f) Native Language Instruction students;
(g) Small schools;
(h) Personnel costs;
(i) Alternative schooling; and
(j) Early Childhood Education programs.
§ 39.804
How is the SUIV calculated?
The SUIV is calculated by the following 5-step process:
(a)
Step 1.
Use the adjusted national average current expenditures (ANACE) of public and private schools determined by data from the U.S. Department of Education-National Center of Education Statistics (NCES) for the last school year for which data is available.
(b)
Step 2.
Subtract the average specific Federal share per student (title I part A and IDEA part B) of the total revenue for Bureau-funded elementary and secondary schools for the last school year for which data is available as reported by NCES (15%).
(c)
Step 3.
Subtract the administrative cost grant/agency area technical services revenue per student as a percentage of the total revenue (current expenditures) of Bureau-funded schools from the last year data is available.
(d)
Step 4.
Subtract the day transportation revenue per student as a percentage of the total revenue (current revenue) Bureau-funded schools for the last school year for which data is available.
(e)
Step 5.
Add Johnson O'Malley funding. (See the table, in § 39.805)
§ 39.805
What was the student unit for instruction value (SUIV) for the school year 1999-2000?
The process described in § 39.804 is illustrated in the table below, using figures for the 1999-2000 school year:
Step 1
$8,030
ANACE.
Step 2
−1205
Average specific Federal share of total revenue for Bureau-funded schools.
Step 3
−993
Cost grant/technical services revenue as a percentage total revenue.
Step 4
−658
Transportation revenue as a percentage of the total revenue.
Step 5
85
Johnson O'Malley funding.
Total
$5,259
SUIV.
§ 39.806
How is the SURV calculated?
(a) The SURV is the adjusted national average current expenditures for residential schools (ANACER) of public and private residential schools. This average is determined using data from the Association of Boarding Schools.
(b) Applying the procedure in paragraph (a) of this section, the SURV for school year 1999-2000 was $11,000.
§ 39.807
How will the Student Unit Value be adjusted annually?
(a) The student unit instructional value (SUIV) and the student unit residential value (SURV) will be adjusted annually to derive the current year Student Unit Value (SUV) by dividing the calculated SUIV and the SURV into two parts and adjusting each one as shown in this section.
(1) The first part consists of 85 percent of the calculated SUIV and the SURV. OIEP will adjust this portion using the personnel cost of living increase of the Department of Defense schools for each year.
(2) The second part consists of 15 percent the calculated SUIV and the SURV. OIEP will adjust this portion using the Consumer Price Index-Urban of the Department of Labor.
(b) If the student unit value amount is not fully funded, the schools will receive their pro rata share using the Indian School Equalization Formula.
§ 39.808
What definitions apply to this subpart?
Adjusted National Average Current Expenditure [ANACE]
means the actual current expenditures for pupils in fall enrollment in public elementary and secondary schools for the last school year for which data is available. These expenditures are adjusted annually to reflect current year expenditures of federally financed schools' cost of day and residential programs.
Current expenditures
means expenses related to classroom instruction, classroom supplies, administration, support services-students and other support services and operations. Current expenditures do not include facility operations and maintenance, buildings and improvements, furniture, equipment, vehicles, student activities and debt retirement.
§ 39.809
Information collection.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person is required to respond to, nor shall any person be subject to a penalty for failure to comply with, a collection of information subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) (PRA), unless that collection of information displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control Number. This part involves collections of information subject to the PRA in §§ 39.410 and 39.502. These collections have been approved by OMB under control numbers 1076-0122, 1076-0134, and 1076-0163.

# Subpart I—Interim Maintenance and Minor Repair Fund

# Source:
44 FR 61864, Oct. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982. Redesignated at 70 FR 33702, June 9, 2005.
§ 39.900
Establishment and funding of an Interim Maintenance and Minor Repair Fund.
There is established in the Division of Facilities Management a separate temporary fund entitled the Interim Maintenance and Minor Repair Fund. The Assistant Secretary shall cause the distribution of an amount of $1 million, under the FY 1980 Appropriation for the Bureau, from budget activity 3500, “General Management and Facilities Operation”, to the direct use of schools, and shall create an appropriate account or subaccount for the Interim Maintenance and Minor Repair Fund and credit these funds thereto.
§ 39.901
Conditions for distribution.
Funds from the Interim Maintenance and Minor Repair Fund shall be distributed to Bureau operated and funded schools and shall be separately earmarked in local school financial plans solely for expenditure at the discretion of the school supervisor for cost of school facility maintenance and minor repair. These funds shall be used to meet immediate minor repair and maintenance needs.
§ 39.902
Allocation.
(a) Interim Maintenance and Minor Repair funds shall be allocated to all Bureau operated and contract schools based on the number of square feet of floor space used for that school's educational program, for student residence and for support facilities. Staff quarters shall be specifically excluded from the computation.
(b) Square footage figures used in determining school allocations shall be taken from the facilities inventory maintained by the Division of Facilities Engineering.
(c) In those cases, such as contract schools, where square footage figures are not now available, it shall be the responsibility of the Bureau's Division of Facilities Engineering to correct the information.
(d) Schools in Alaska shall receive a 25% cost adjustment increase in the computation of their allocation.
§ 39.903
Use of funds.
Funds allocated under this provision for maintenance and minor repair shall be used for no other purpose.
§ 39.904
Limitations.
Nothing in this provision shall be interpreted as relieving the Bureau branch of Facilities Management or its field offices of any responsibility for continuing to provide maintenance and repair service to schools through existing procedures.

# Subpart J—Administrative Cost Formula

# Source:
56 FR 35795, July 26, 1991, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 70 FR 33702, June 9, 2005.
§ 39.1000
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of this subpart is to provide funds at the agency and area education offices for FY 1991 and future years for administration of all Bureau of Indian Affairs education functions, including but not limited to school operations, continuing education, early childhood education, post-secondary education and Johnson-O'Malley Programs.
§ 39.1001
Definitions.
(a)
Agency Education Office
means a field office of the Office of Indian Education Programs providing administrative direction and supervision to one or more Bureau-operated schools as well as being responsible for all other education functions serving tribes within that agency's jurisdiction.
(b)
Area Education Office
means a field office of the Office of Indian Education Programs responsible for all education functions serving tribes not serviced by an agency education office an in some cases providing administrative direction to one or more off-reservation boarding schools not under an agency education office.
§ 39.1002
Allotment of education administrative funds.
The total annual budget for agencies/areas shall be allotted to the Director and through him/her to agency and area education offices. This total budget shall be distributed to the various agency and area education offices as follows:
(a) Each agency or area education office as defined above shall receive a base amount of $50,000 for basic administrative costs; and
(b) Each agency or area education office as defined above shall receive an amount under these funds equal to two percent of the total higher education, Johnson-O'Malley and adult education funds administered by each office, except that the Navajo Agencies are restricted to a maximum of $50,000 for administering the Johnson-O'Malley and higher education programs; and
(c) Eighty percent of the remaining funds shall be distributed proportionately based on the number of schools operated under the jurisdiction of each agency or area education office, with
Bureau-operated schools counting as 1 and contract/grant schools counting as 0.6; and
(d) The remaining twenty percent shall be distributed proportionately based on the total weighted student units generated by all schools under the jurisdiction of each agency or area education office.
§ 39.1003
Allotment exception for FY 1991.
For FY 1991 only, the Director may reserve an amount equal to no more than one half of the funds received in FY 1990 by those offices to be closed in FY 1991 to cover severance pay costs, lump sum leave payments and relocation costs for those individuals affected by the closures. Any balance uncommitted by March 31, 1991, shall be distributed in accordance with the formula in § 39.122.

# Subpart K—Pre-kindergarten Programs

# Source:
44 FR 61864, Oct. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982. Redesignated at 70 FR 33702, June 9, 2005.
§ 39.1100
Interim fiscal year 1980 and fiscal year 1981 funding for pre-kindergarten programs previously funded by the Bureau.
Those schools having pre-kindergarten programs funded fully or in part from Bureau education funds in fiscal year 1979 shall be funded from Bureau education funds by the Director in fiscal year 1980 and fiscal year 1981 at their fiscal year 1979 Bureau education funding levels. The fiscal year 1979 pre-kindergarten Bureau funding amount for each Bureau funded school shall be deducted from the school's fiscal year 1979 Bureau Education Budget amount prior to application of the phase-in provision.
[44 FR 61864, Oct. 26, 1979. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982. Redesignated and amended at 70 FR 33702, June 9, 2005]
§ 39.1101
Addition of pre-kindergarten as a weight factor to the Indian School Equalization Formula in fiscal year 1982.
The Director, in consultation with the tribes and school boards, shall determine appropriate weight factors needed to include pre-kindergarten programs in the Indian School Equalization Formula in fiscal year 1982. Based on a needs assessment, to be completed by January 1, 1980, pre-kindergarten programs shall be included in the Bureau's education request for fiscal year 1982.

# Subpart L—Contract School Operation and Maintenance Fund

# Source:
44 FR 61864, Oct. 26, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 70 FR 33702, June 9, 2005.
§ 39.1200
Definitions.
Contract school operation and maintenance costs for fiscal year 1979 means the sum of costs for custodial salaries and fringe benefits, related supplies and equipment and equipment repair, insurance, and school operation utilities costs, where such costs are not paid by the Division of Facilities Management or other noneducation Bureau sources.
§ 39.1201
Establishment of an interim fiscal year 1980 operation and maintenance fund for contract schools.
There is established in the Division of Facilities Management a separate fund entitled the Contract School Operation and Maintenance Fund. The Secretary shall cause the distribution of an amount of $2.5 million, under the fiscal year 1980 appropriation for the Bureau, from budget activity 3500. “General Management and Facilities Operations”, to the schools through this fund and shall create an appropriate account or subaccount for the Contract School Operation and Maintenance Fund.
§ 39.1202
Distribution of funds.
(a) Each contract school shall receive in fiscal year 1980 a portion of the Contract School Operation and Maintenance Fund determined by the percentage share which that school's fiscal year 1979 operation and maintenance cost represents in the total fiscal year 1979 operation and maintenance cost for all such schools.
(b) To be eligible for these funds, a contract school shall submit a detailed report of actual operation and maintenance costs for fiscal year 1979 to the Director by November 23, 1979. These cost figures will be subject to verification by the Director to assure their accuracy prior to the allotment of any funds under this subpart.
(c) Any funds generated under this subpart shall be included in the computation of the phase-in amount if supplemental operation and maintenance funds were included in a school's fiscal year 1979 3100 contract funds.
[44 FR 61864, Oct. 26, 1979. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982. Redesignated and amended at 70 FR 33702, June 9, 2005]
§ 39.1203
Future consideration of contract school operation and maintenance funding.
The Assistant Secretary shall arrange for full funding for operation and maintenance of contract schools by fiscal year 1981.
Pt. 40

# PART 40—ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATIONAL LOANS, GRANTS AND OTHER ASSISTANCE FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
Sec.
40.1
Appropriations for loans or grants.
40.2
Working scholarships.
40.3
Applications.
40.4
Security.
40.5
Repayments.

# Authority:
Sec. 11, 48 Stat. 986; 25 U.S.C. 471.

# Source:
22 FR 10533, Dec. 24, 1957, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 40.1
Appropriations for loans or grants.
Funds appropriated by Congress for the education of Indians may be used for making educational loans and grants to aid students of one-fourth or more degree of Indian blood attending accredited institutions of higher education or other accredited schools offering vocational and technical training who reside within the exterior boundaries of Indian reservations under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs or on trust or restricted lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Such educational loans and grants may be made also to students of one-fourth or more degree of Indian blood who reside near the reservation when a denial of such loans or grants would have a direct effect upon Bureau programs within the reservation. After students meeting these eligibility requirements are taken care of, Indian students who do not meet the residency requirements but are otherwise eligible may be considered.
[33 FR 9708, July 4, 1968. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982]
§ 40.2
Working scholarships.
Working scholarships may be granted to Indians who wish to earn their board and room by part-time work at Federal boarding schools that are located near a college, trade, or vocational school.
§ 40.3
Applications.
Applications for educational loans, grants, and working scholarships shall be submitted through the superintendent or officer in charge of the agency at which the applicant is enrolled in the manner prescribed by the Commissioner.
§ 40.4
Security.
If a borrower or cosigner has security to offer for an educational loan it must be given in an amount adequate to protect the loan.
§ 40.5
Repayments.
Repayment schedules for educational loans may provide not to exceed two years for repayment for each year in school.
Pt. 41

# PART 41—GRANTS TO TRIBAL COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES AND DINÉ COLLEGE

# Subpart A—Applicability and Definitions
Sec.
41.1
When does this subpart apply?
41.3
What definitions are needed?
41.5
How is ISC/FTE calculated?
41.7
What happens if false information is submitted?

# Subpart B—Tribal Colleges and Universities
41.9
What is the purpose of this subpart?
41.11
Who is eligible for financial assistance under this subpart?
41.13
For what activities can financial assistance to Tribal colleges and universities be used?
41.15
What activities are prohibited?
41.17
What is the role of the Secretary of Education?
41.19
How can a Tribal college or university establish eligibility to receive a grant?
41.21
How can a Tribe appeal the results of an eligibility study?
41.23
Can a Tribal college or university request a second eligibility study?
41.25
How does the Tribal college or university apply for a grant?
41.27
When can the Tribal college or university expect a decision on its application?
41.29
How will a grant be awarded?
41.31
When will the Tribal college or university receive funding?
41.33
What if there isn't enough money to pay the full grant amount?
41.35
What will happen if the Tribal college or university doesn't receive its appropriate share?
41.37
Is the Tribal college or university eligible for other grants?
41.39
What reports does the Tribal college or university need to provide?
41.41
Can the Tribal college or university receive technical assistance?
41.43
How must the Tribal college or university administer its grant?
41.45
How does the Tribal college or university apply for programming grants?
41.47
Are Tribal colleges or universities eligible for endowments?

# Subpart C—Diné College
41.49
What is the purpose of this subpart?
41.51
What is the scope of this subpart?
41.53
How does Diné College request financial assistance?
41.55
How are grant funds processed?
41.57
When will the application be reviewed?
41.59
When will the funds be paid?
41.61
Is Diné College eligible to receive other grants?
41.63
How can financial assistance be used?
41.65
What reports must be provided?
41.67
Can Diné College receive technical assistance?
41.69
How must Diné College administer its grant?
41.71
Can Diné College appeal an adverse decision under a grant agreement by the Director?

# Authority:
Public Law 95-471, Oct. 17, 1978, 92 Stat. 1325; amended Public Law 98-192, Dec. 1, 1983, 97 Stat. 1335; Public Law 99-428, Sept. 30, 1986, 100 Stat. 982; Public Law 105-244, Oct. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1619; Public Law 110-315, Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3460; 25 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.;
Public Law 98-192, Dec. 15, 1971, 85 Stat. 646; and Public Law 110-315, Aug. 14, 2008, 122 Stat. 3468; 25 U.S.C. 640a
et seq.

# Source:
81 FR 38587, June 14, 2016, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Applicability and Definitions
§ 41.1
When does this subpart apply?
The provisions in this subpart A apply to subparts B and C.
§ 41.3
What definitions are needed?
As used in this part:
Academic facilities
mean structures suitable for use as:
(1) Classrooms, laboratories, libraries, and related facilities necessary or appropriate for instruction of students;
(2) Research facilities;
(3) Facilities for administration of educational or research programs;
(4) Dormitories or student services buildings; or
(5) Maintenance, storage, support, or utility facilities essential to the operation of the foregoing facilities.
Academic term
means a semester, trimester, or other such period (not less than six weeks in duration) into which a Tribal college or university normally subdivides its academic year, but does not include a summer term.
Academic year
means a twelve month period established by a Tribal college or university as the annual period for the operation of the Tribal college's or university's education programs.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
BIE
means the Bureau of Indian Education.
College or university
means an institution of higher education that is formally controlled, formally sanctioned, or chartered by the governing body of an Indian Tribe or Tribes. To qualify under this definition, the college or university must:
(1) Be the only institution recognized by the Department for the Tribe, excluding Diné College; and
(2) If under the control, sanction, or charter of more than one Tribe, be the only institution recognized by the Department for at least one Tribe that currently has no other formally controlled, formally sanctioned, or chartered college or university.
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Director
means the Director of the Bureau of Indian Education.
Eligible continuing education units (CEUs)
means non-degree credits that meet the criteria established by the International Association of Continuing Education and Training.
Full-time
means registered for 12 or more credit hours for an academic term.
Indian Student Count (ISC) or Indian Full-Time Equivalent (FTE)
means a number equal to the total number of Indian students enrolled at a Tribal college or university, determined according to the formula in § 41.5.
Indian student
means a student who is a member of an Indian Tribe, or a biological child of a living or deceased member of an Indian Tribe. Documentation is required to verify eligibility as a biological child of a living or deceased member of an Indian Tribe, and may include birth certificate and marriage license; Tribal records of student's parent; Indian Health Service eligibility cards; other documentation necessary to authenticate a student as eligible to be counted as an
Indian student
under this definition.
Indian Tribe
means an Indian Tribe, band, nation, pueblo, rancheria, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native Village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, to be listed in the
Federal Register
pursuant to 25 CFR 83.5(a) as recognized by and eligible to receive services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Institution of higher education
means an institution as defined by section 1001(a) of Title 20 of the United States Code, except that clause (2) of such section is not applicable and the reference to Secretary in clause (5)(A) of such section will be deemed to refer to the Secretary of the Interior.
National Indian organization
means an organization which the Secretary finds to be nationally based, represents a substantial Indian constituency and has expertise in the fields of Tribal colleges and universities, and Indian higher education.
NCCA
means the Navajo Community College Act of 1978, as amended (25 U.S.C. 640a
et seq.
).
Operating expenses of education programs
means the obligations and expenditures of a Tribal college or university for postsecondary education, except for obligations and expenditures for acquisition or construction of academic facilities. Permissible expenditures may include:
(1) Administration;
(2) Instruction;
(3) Maintenance and repair of facilities; and
(4) Acquisition and upgrade of equipment, technological equipment, and other physical resources.
Part-time
means registered for less than 12 credit hours for an academic term.
Satisfactory progress
means satisfactory progress toward a degree or certificate as defined by the Tribal college or university.
Secretary,
unless otherwise designated, means the Secretary of the Interior, or his/her duly authorized representative.
TCCUA
means the Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities Assistance Act of 1978, as amended (25 U.S.C. 1801
et seq.
).
You
or
your
means the Tribal college or university.
§ 41.5
How is ISC/FTE calculated?
(a) ISC is calculated on the basis of eligible registrations of Indian students as of the conclusion of the third week of each academic term.
(b) To calculate ISC for an academic term, begin by adding all credit hours of full-time Indian students and all credit hours of part-time Indian students, including full-time and part-time distance education Indian students, who are registered at the conclusion of the third week of the academic term.
(c) Credit hours earned by Indian students who have not obtained a high school degree or its equivalent may be added if you have established criteria for the admission of such students on the basis of their ability to benefit from the education or training offered. You will be presumed to have established such criteria if your admission procedures include counseling or testing that measures students' aptitude to successfully complete the courses in which they enroll.
(d) No credit hours earned by an Indian student attending high school and applied towards the student's high school degree or its equivalent may be counted toward computation of ISC; and no credit hours earned by an Indian student not making satisfactory progress toward a degree or certificate may count toward the ISC.
(e) If ISC is being calculated for a fall term, add to the calculation in paragraph (b) of this section any credits earned in classes offered during the preceding summer term.
(f) Add to the calculation in paragraph (b) of this section those credits being earned in an eligible continuing education program at the conclusion of the third week of the academic term. Determine the number of those credits as follows:
(1) For institutions on a semester system: One credit for every 15 contact hours and
(2) For institutions on a quarter system: One credit for every 10 contact hours of participation in an organized continuing education experience under responsible sponsorship, capable direction, and qualified instruction, as described in the criteria established by the International Association for Continuing Education and Training. Limit the number of calculated eligible continuing education credits to 10 percent of your ISC.
(g) Divide by 12 the final calculation in paragraph (f) of this section. The formula for the full calculation is expressed mathematically as:
ISC = (FTCR + PTCR + SCR + CECR)/12
(h) In the formula in paragraph (g) of this section, the abbreviations used have the following meanings:
(1) FTCR = the number of credit hours carried by full-time Indian students (students carrying 12 or more credit hours at the end of the third week of each academic term); and
(2) PTCR = the number of credit hours carried by part-time Indian students (students carrying fewer than 12 credit hours at the end of the third week of each academic term).
(3) SCR = in a fall term, the number of credit hours earned during the preceding summer term.
(4) CECR = the number of credit hours being earned in an eligible continuing education program at the conclusion of the third week of the academic term, in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
§ 41.7
What happens if false information is submitted?
Persons submitting or causing to be submitted any false information in connection with any application, report, or other document under this part may be subject to criminal prosecution under provisions such as sections 371 or 1001 of Title 18, U.S. Code.

# Subpart B—Tribal Colleges and Universities
§ 41.9
What is the purpose of this subpart?
This subpart prescribes procedures for providing financial and technical assistance under the TCCUA for the operation and improvement of Tribal colleges and universities and advancement of educational opportunities for Indian students. This subpart does not apply to Diné College.
§ 41.11
Who is eligible for financial assistance under this subpart?
(a) A Tribal college or university is eligible for financial assistance under this subpart only if it:
(1) Is governed by a board of directors or board of trustees, a majority of whom are Indians;
(2) Demonstrates adherence to stated goals, a philosophy, or a plan of operation directed to meet the needs of Indians;
(3) Has a student body that is more than 50 percent Indian (unless it has been in operation for less than one year);
(4) Is either:
(i) Accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association determined by the Secretary of Education to be a reliable authority with regard to the quality of training offered; or
(ii) Is making reasonable progress toward accreditation according to such agency or association;
(5) Has received a positive determination after completion of an eligibility study; and
(6) Complies with the requirements of § 41.19.
(b) Priority in grants is given to institutions that were in operation on October 17, 1978, and that have a history of service to Indian people.
§ 41.13
For what activities can financial assistance to Tribal colleges and universities be used?
Tribal colleges and universities may use financial assistance under this subpart to defray expenditures for academic, educational, and administrative purposes and for the operation and maintenance of the college or university.
§ 41.15
What activities are prohibited?
Tribal colleges and universities must not use financial assistance awarded under this subpart in connection with religious worship or sectarian instruction. However, nothing in this subpart will be construed as barring instruction or practice in comparative religions or cultures or in languages of Indian Tribes.
§ 41.17
What is the role of the Secretary of Education?
(a) The Secretary may enter into an agreement with the Secretary of Education to obtain assistance to:
(1) Develop plans, procedures, and criteria for eligibility studies required under this subpart; and
(2) Conduct such studies.
(b) BIE must consult with the Secretary of Education to determine the reasonable number of students required to support a Tribal college or university.
§ 41.19
How can a Tribal college or university establish eligibility to receive a grant?
(a) Before a Tribal college or university can apply for an initial grant under this part, the governing body of one or more Indian Tribes must request a determination of eligibility on the college's or university's behalf.
(b) Within 30 days of receiving a resolution or other duly authorized request from the governing body of one or more Indian Tribes, BIE will initiate an eligibility study to determine whether there is justification to encourage and maintain a Tribal college or university.
(c) The eligibility study will analyze the following factors:
(1) Financial feasibility based upon reasonable potential enrollment; considering:
(i) Tribal, linguistics, or cultural differences;
(ii) Isolation;
(iii) Presence of alternate educational sources;
(iv) Proposed curriculum;
(2) Levels of Tribal matriculation in and graduation from postsecondary educational institutions; and
(3) The benefits of continued and expanded educational opportunities for Indian students.
(d) Based upon results of the study, the Director will send the Tribe a written determination of eligibility.
(e) The Secretary and the BIE, to the extent practicable, will consult with national Indian organizations and with Tribal governments chartering the colleges or universities being considered.
§ 41.21
How can a Tribe appeal the results of an eligibility study?
If a Tribe receives a negative determination under § 41.19(d), it may submit an appeal to the Assistant Secretary within 45 days.
(a) Following the timely filing of a Tribe's notice of appeal, the Tribal college or university and the Tribe have a right to a formal review of the eligibility study, including a hearing upon reasonable notice within 60 days. At the hearing, the Tribal college or university and the appealing Tribe may present additional evidence or arguments to justify eligibility.
(b) Within 45 days of the hearing, the Assistant Secretary will issue a written ruling confirming, modifying, or reversing the original determination. The ruling will be final and BIE will mail or deliver it within one week of its issuance.
(c) If the Assistant Secretary does not reverse the original negative determination, the ruling will specify the grounds for the decision and state the manner in which the determination relates to each of the factors in § 41.11.
§ 41.23
Can a Tribal college or university request a second eligibility study?
If a Tribe is not successful in its appeal under § 41.21, it can request another eligibility study 12 months or more after the date of the negative determination.
§ 41.25
How does a Tribal college or university apply for a grant?
(a) If the Tribal college or university receives a positive determination of the eligibility study under § 41.19(d), it is entitled to apply for financial assistance under this subpart.
(b) To be considered for assistance, a Tribal college or university must submit an application by or before June 1st of the year preceding the academic year for which the Tribal college or university is requesting assistance. The application must contain the following:
Required information
Required details
(1) Identifying information
(i) Name and address of the Tribal college or university.
(ii) Names of the governing board members, and the number of its members who are Indian.
(iii) Name and address of the Tribe or Tribes that control or have sanctioned or chartered the Tribal college or university.
(2) Eligibility verification
The date on which an eligibility determination was received.
(3) Curriculum materials
(i) A statement of goals, philosophy, or plan of operation demonstrating how the education program is designed to meet the needs of Indians.
(ii) A curriculum, which may be in the form of a college catalog or similar publication, or information located on the Tribal college or university Web site.
(4) Financial information
(i) A proposed budget showing total expected education program operating expenses and expected revenues from all sources for the academic year to which the information applies.
(ii) A description of record-keeping procedures used to track fund expenditures and to audit and monitor funded programs.
(5) Enrollment information
(i) If the Tribal college or university has been in operation for more than one year, a statement of the total number of ISC (FTE Indian students) and the total number of all FTE students. Grantees may exclude high school students for the purpose of calculating the total number of FTE students.
(ii) If the Tribal college or university has not yet begun operations, or has been in operation for less than one year, a statement of expected enrollment, including the total number of FTE students and the ISC (FTE Indian students) and may also require verification of the number of registered students after operations have started.
(6) Assurances and requests
(i) Assurance that the Tribal college or university will not deny admission to any Indian student because that student is, or is not, a member of a specific Tribe.
(ii) Assurance that the Tribal college or university will comply with the requirements in § 41.39 of this subpart.
(iii) A request and justification for a specific waiver of any requirement of 25 CFR part 276 which a Tribal college or university believe to be inappropriate.
(7) Certification
Certification by the chief executive that the information on the application is complete and correct.
(c) Material submitted in a Tribal college's or university's initial successful grant application will be retained by the BIE. A Tribal college or university submitting a subsequent application for a grant, must either confirm the information previously submitted remains accurate or submit updated information, as necessary.
§ 41.27
When can the Tribal college or university expect a decision on its application?
Within 45 days of receiving an application, the Director will notify the
Tribal college or university in writing whether or not the application has been approved.
(a) If the Director approves the application, written notice will explain when the BIE will send the Tribal college or university a grant agreement under § 41.19.
(b) If the Director disapproves the application, written notice will include:
(1) The reasons for disapproval; and
(2) A statement advising the Tribal college or university of the right to amend or supplement the Tribal college's or university's application within 45 days.
(c) The Tribal college or university may appeal a disapproval or a failure to act within 45 days of receipt following the procedures in § 41.21.
§ 41.29
How will a grant be awarded?
If the Director approves the Tribal college's or university's application, the BIE will send the Tribal college or university a grant agreement that incorporates the Tribal college's or university's application and the provisions required by § 41.25. The Tribal college or university grant will be for the fiscal year starting after the approval date of the application.
(a) The BIE will generally calculate the amount of the Tribal college or university grant using the following procedure:
(1) Begin with a base amount of $8,000 (adjusted annually for inflation);
(2) Multiply the base amount by the number of FTE Indian students in attendance during each academic term; and
(3) Divide the resulting sum by the number of academic terms in the academic year.
(b) All grants under this section are subject to availability of appropriations.
(c) If there are insufficient funds to pay the amount calculated under paragraph (a) of this section, BIE will reduce the grant amount awarded to each eligible Tribal college or university on a pro rata basis.
§ 41.31
When will the Tribal college or university receive funding?
(a) BIE will authorize payments equal to 95 percent of funds available for allotment by either July 1 or within 14 days after appropriations become available, with the remainder of the payment made no later than September 30.
(b) BIE will not commingle funds appropriated for grants under this subpart with other funds expended by the BIE.
§ 41.33
What if there isn't enough money to pay the full grant amount?
This section applies if BIE has to reduce payments under § 41.29(c).
(a) If additional funds have not been appropriated to pay the full amount of grants under this part on or before June 1st of the year, the BIE will notify all grant recipients in writing. The Tribal college or university must submit a written report to the BIE on or before July 1st explaining how much of the grant money remains unspent.
(b) After receiving the Tribal college's or university's report under paragraph (a) of this section, BIE will:
(1) Reallocate the unspent funds using the formula in § 41.29 in proportion to the amount of assistance to which each grant recipient is entitled but has not received;
(2) Ensure that no Tribal college or university will receive more than the total annual cost of its education programs;
(3) Collect unspent funds as necessary for redistribution to other grantees under this section; and
(4) Make reallocation payments on or before August 1st of the academic year.
§ 41.35
What will happen if the Tribal college or university doesn't receive its appropriate share?
(a) If the BIE determines the Tribal college or university has received financial assistance to which the Tribal college or university was not entitled, BIE will:
(1) Promptly notify the Tribal college or university; and
(2) Reduce the amount of the Tribal college's or university's payments under this subpart to compensate for any overpayments or otherwise attempt to recover the overpayments.
(b) If a Tribal college or university has received less financial assistance than the amount to which the Tribal
college or university was entitled, the Tribal college or university should promptly notify the BIE. If the BIE confirms the miscalculation, BIE will adjust the amount of the Tribal college's or university's payments for the same or subsequent academic years to compensate for the underpayments. This adjustment will come from the Department's general funds and not from future appropriated funds.
§ 41.37
Is the Tribal college or university eligible for other grants?
Yes. Eligibility for grants under this subpart does not bar a Tribal college or university from receiving financial assistance under any other Federal program.
§ 41.39
What reports does the Tribal college or university need to provide?
(a) The Tribal college or university must provide the BIE, on or before December 1 of each year, a report that includes:
(1) An accounting of the amounts and purposes for which the Tribal college or university spent assistance received under this part during the preceding academic year;
(2) An accounting of the annual cost of the Tribal college's or university's education programs from all sources for the academic year; and
(3) A final performance report based upon the criteria the Tribal college's or university's goals, philosophy, or plan of operation.
(b) The Tribal college or university must report to the BIE their FTE Indian student enrollment for each academic term of the academic year within three (3) weeks of the date the Tribal college or university makes the FTE calculation.
§ 41.41
Can the Tribal college or university receive technical assistance?
(a) If a Tribal college or university sends the BIE a written request for technical assistance, BIE will respond within 30 days.
(b) The BIE will provide technical assistance either directly or through annual contract to a national Indian organization that the Tribal college or university designates.
(c) Technical assistance may include consulting services for developing programs, plans, and eligibility studies and accounting, and other services or technical advice.
§ 41.43
How must the Tribal college or university administer its grant?
In administering any grant provided under this subpart, a Tribal college or university must:
(a) Provide services or assistance under this subpart in a fair and uniform manner;
(b) Not deny admission to any Indian student because they either are, or are not, a member of a specific Indian Tribe; and
(c) Comply with part 276 of this chapter, unless the BIE expressly waives specific inappropriate provisions of part 276 in response to a Tribal college or university request and justification for a waiver.
§ 41.45
How does the Tribal college or university apply for programming grants?
(a) Tribes and Tribal entities may submit a written request to the BIE for a grant to conduct planning activities for the purpose of developing proposals for the establishment of Tribally controlled colleges and universities, or to determine the need and potential for the establishment of such colleges and universities. BIE will provide written notice to the Tribal college or university of its determination on the grant request within 30 days.
(b) Subject to the availability of appropriations, BIE may provide such grants to up to five Tribes and Tribal entities in the amount of $15,000 each.
§ 41.47
Are Tribal colleges or universities eligible for endowments?
Yes. Tribal colleges and universities are eligible for endowments under a signed agreement between the Tribal college and university and the Secretary as described in 25 U.S.C. 1832. Endowments must be invested in a trust fund and the Tribal college or university may only use the interest deposited for the purpose of defraying expenses associated with the operation
of the Tribal college or university (25 U.S.C. 1833).

# Subpart C—Diné College
§ 41.49
What is the purpose of this subpart?
The purpose of this subpart is to assist the Navajo Nation in providing education to the members of the Tribe and other qualified applicants through a community college, established by that Tribe, known as Diné College. To that end, the regulations in this subpart prescribe procedures for providing financial and technical assistance for Diné College under the NCCA.
§ 41.51
What is the scope of this subpart?
The regulations in this subpart are applicable to the provision of financial assistance to Diné College pursuant to NCCA, title II of the TCCUA.
§ 41.53
How does Diné College request financial assistance?
To request financial assistance, Diné College must submit an application. The application must be certified by the Diné College chief executive officer and include:
(a) A statement of Indian student enrollment and total FTE enrollment for the preceding academic year;
(b) A curriculum description, which may be in the form of a college catalog or like publication or information located on the Diné College Web site; and
(c) A proposed budget showing total expected operating expenses of educational programs and expected revenue from all sources for the grant year.
§ 41.55
How are grant funds processed?
(a) BIE will identify the budget request for Diné College separately in its annual budget justification.
(b) BIE will not commingle funds appropriated for grants under this subpart with appropriations that are historically expended by the Bureau of Indian Affairs for programs and projects normally provided on the Navajo Reservation for Navajo beneficiaries.
§ 41.57
When will the application be reviewed?
Within 45 days of receiving the application the BIE will send a grant agreement for signature by the Diné College president or his or her designee in an amount determined under § 41.29(a). The grant agreement will incorporate the grant application and include the provisions required by § 41.25.
§ 41.59
When will grant funds be paid?
(a) Initial grant funds will be paid in an advance installment of not less than 40 percent of the funds available for allotment by October 1st.
(b) The remainder of the grant funds will be paid by July 1st after the BIE adjusts the amount to reflect any overpayments or underpayments made in the first disbursement.
§ 41.61
Is Diné College eligible to receive other grants?
Yes. Eligibility for grants under this subpart does not bar Diné College from receiving financial assistance under any other Federal program.
§ 41.63
How can financial assistance be used?
(a) The Diné College must use financial assistance under this subpart only for operation and maintenance, including educations programs, annual capital expenditures, major capital improvements, mandatory payments, supplemental student services, and improvement and expansion, as described in 25 U.S.C. 640c-1(b)(1);
(b) The Diné College must not use financial assistance under this subpart for religious worship or sectarian instruction. However, this subpart does not prohibit instruction about religions, cultures or Indian Tribal languages.
§ 41.65
What reports must be provided?
(a) Diné College must submit on or before December 1st of each year a report that includes:
(1) An accounting of the amounts and purposes for which Diné College spent the financial assistance during the preceding academic year;
(2) The annual cost of Diné College education programs from all sources for the academic year; and
(3) A final report of Diné College's performance based upon the criteria in its stated goals, philosophy, or plan of operation.
(b) Diné College must report its FTE Indian student enrollment for each academic term within six weeks of the date it makes the FTE calculation.
§ 41.67
Can Diné College receive technical assistance?
Technical assistance will be provided to Diné College as noted in § 41.41.
§ 41.69
How must Diné College administer its grant?
In administering any grant provided under this subpart, Diné College must:
(a) Provide all services or assistance under this subpart in a fair and uniform manner;
(b) Not deny admission to any Indian student because the student is, or is not, a member of a specific Indian Tribe; and
(c) Comply with part 276 of this chapter, unless the BIE expressly waives specific inappropriate provisions of part 276 in response to Diné College's request and its justification for a waiver.
§ 41.71
Can Diné College appeal an adverse decision under a grant agreement by the Director?
Diné College has the right to appeal to the Assistant Secretary by filing a written notice of appeal within 45 days of the adverse decision. Within 45 days after receiving notice of appeal, the Assistant Secretary will conduct a formal hearing at which time the Diné College may present evidence and argument to support its appeal. Within 45 days of the hearing, the Assistant Secretary will issue a written ruling on the appeal confirming, modifying or reversing the decision of the Director. If the ruling does not reverse the adverse decision, the Assistant Secretary will state in detail the basis of his/her ruling. The ruling of the Assistant Secretary on an appeal will be final for the Department.
Pt. 42

# PART 42—STUDENT RIGHTS
Sec.
42.1
What general principles apply to this part?
42.2
What rights do individual students have?
42.3
How should a school address alleged violations of school policies?
42.4
What are alternative dispute resolution processes?
42.5
When can a school use ADR processes to address an alleged violation?
42.6
When does due process require a formal disciplinary hearing?
42.7
What does due process in a formal disciplinary proceeding include?
42.8
What are a student's due process rights in a formal disciplinary proceeding?
42.9
What are victims' rights in formal disciplinary proceedings?
42.10
How must the school communicate individual student rights to students, parents or guardians, and staff?
42.11
Information collection.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301, Pub. L. 107-110, 115 Stat. 1425.

# Source:
70 FR 22218, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 42.1
What general principles apply to this part?
(a) This part applies to every Bureau-funded school. The regulations in this part govern student rights and due process procedures in disciplinary proceedings in all Bureau-funded schools. To comply with this part, each school must:
(1) Respect the constitutional, statutory, civil and human rights of individual students; and
(2) Respect the role of Tribal judicial systems where appropriate.
(b) All student rights, due process procedures, and educational practices should, where appropriate or possible, afford students consideration of and rights equal to the student's traditional Native customs and practices.
§ 42.2
What rights do individual students have?
Individual students at Bureau-funded schools have, and must be accorded, at least the following rights:
(a) The right to an education that may take into consideration Native American or Alaska Native values;
(b) The right to an education that incorporates applicable Federal and Tribal constitutional and statutory protections for individuals; and
(c) The right to due process in instances of disciplinary actions.
§ 42.3
How should a school address alleged violations of school policies?
(a) In addressing alleged violations of school policies, each school must consider, to the extent appropriate, the reintegration of the student into the school community.
(b) The school may address a student violation using alternative dispute resolution (ADR) processes or the formal disciplinary process.
(1) When appropriate, the school should first attempt to use the ADR processes described in § 42.4 that may allow resolution of the alleged violation without recourse to punitive action.
(2) Where ADR processes do not resolve matters or cannot be used, the school must address the alleged violation through a formal disciplinary proceeding under § 42.7 consistent with the due process rights described in § 42.7.
§ 42.4
What are alternative dispute resolution processes?
Alternative dispute resolution (ADR) processes are formal or informal processes that may allow resolution of the violation without recourse to punitive action.
(a) ADR processes may:
(1) Include peer adjudication, mediation, and conciliation; and
(2) Involve appropriate customs and practices of the Indian Tribes or Alaska Native Villages to the extent that these practices are readily identifiable.
(b) For further information on ADR processes and how to use them, contact the Office of Collaborative Action and Dispute Resolution by:
(1) Sending an e-mail to:
cadr@ios.doi.gov
; or
(2) Writing to: Office of Collaborative Action and Dispute Resolution, Department of the Interior, 1849 C Street NW., MS 5258, Washington, DC 20240.
§ 42.5
When can a school use ADR processes to address an alleged violation?
(a) The school may address an alleged violation through the ADR processes described in § 42.4, unless one of the conditions in paragraph (b) of this section applies.
(b) The school must not use ADR processes in any of the following circumstances:
(1) Where the Act requires immediate expulsion (“zero tolerance” laws);
(2) For a special education disciplinary proceeding where use of ADR would not be compatible with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (Pub. L. 105-17); or
(3) When all parties do not agree to using alternative dispute resolution processes.
(c) If ADR processes do not resolve matters or cannot be used, the school must address alleged violations through the formal disciplinary proceeding described in § 42.8.
§ 42.6
When does due process require a formal disciplinary hearing?
Unless local school policies and procedures provide for less, a formal disciplinary hearing is required before a suspension in excess of 10 days or expulsion.
§ 42.7
What does due process in a formal disciplinary proceeding include?
Due process must include written notice of the charges and a fair and impartial hearing as required by this section.
(a) The school must give the student written notice of charges within a reasonable time before the hearing required by paragraph (b) of this section. Notice of the charges includes:
(1) A copy of the school policy allegedly violated;
(2) The facts related to the alleged violation;
(3) Information about any statements that the school has received relating to the charge and instructions on how to obtain copies of those statements; and
(4) Information regarding those parts of the student's record that the school will consider in rendering a disciplinary decision.
(b) The school must hold a fair and impartial hearing before imposing disciplinary action, except under the following circumstances:
(1) If the Act requires immediate removal (such as, if the student brought a firearm to school) or if there is some other statutory basis for removal;
(2) In an emergency situation that seriously and immediately endangers the health or safety of the student or others; or
(3) If the student (or the student's parent or guardian if the student is less than 18 years old) chooses to waive entitlement to a hearing.
(c) In an emergency situation under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the school:
(1) May temporarily remove the student;
(2) Must immediately document for the record the facts giving rise to the emergency; and
(3) Must afford the student a hearing that follows due process, as set forth in this part, within ten days.
§ 42.8
What are a student's due process rights in a formal disciplinary proceeding?
A student has the following due process rights in a formal disciplinary proceeding:
(a) The right to have present at the hearing the student's parents or guardians (or their designee);
(b) The right to be represented by counsel (legal counsel will not be paid for by the Bureau-funded school or the Secretary);
(c) The right to produce, and have produced, witnesses on the student's behalf and to confront and examine all witnesses;
(d) The right to the record of the disciplinary action, including written findings of fact and conclusions;
(e) The right to administrative review and appeal under school policy;
(f) The right not to be compelled to testify against himself or herself; and
(g) The right to have an allegation of misconduct and related information expunged from the student's school record if the student is found not guilty of the charges.
§ 42.9
What are victims' rights in formal disciplinary proceedings?
In formal disciplinary proceedings, each school must consider victims' rights when appropriate.
(a) The victim's rights may include a right to:
(1) Participate in disciplinary proceedings either in writing or in person;
(2) Provide a statement concerning the impact of the incident on the victim; and
(3) Have the outcome explained to the victim and to his or her parents or guardian by a school official, consistent with confidentiality.
(b) For the purposes of this part, the victim is the actual victim, not his or her parents or guardians.
§ 42.10
How must the school communicate individual student rights to students, parents or guardians, and staff?
Each school must:
(a) Develop a student handbook that includes local school policies, definitions of suspension, expulsion, zero tolerance, and other appropriate terms, and a copy of the regulations in this part;
(b) Provide all school staff a current and updated copy of student rights and responsibilities before the first day of each school year;
(c) Provide all students and their parents or guardians a current and updated copy of student rights and responsibilities every school year upon enrollment; and
(d) Require students, school staff, and to the extent possible, parents and guardians, to confirm in writing that they have received a copy and understand the student rights and responsibilities.
§ 42.11
Information collection.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person is required to respond to, nor shall any person be subject to a penalty for failure to comply with a collection of information, subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) (PRA), unless that collection of information displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control Number. This part in
§§ 42.6, 42.7, and 42.9 contains collections of information subject to the PRA. These collections have been approved by OMB under control number 1076-0163.
Pt. 43

# PART 43—MAINTENANCE AND CONTROL OF STUDENT RECORDS IN BUREAU SCHOOLS
Sec.
43.1
Purpose and scope.
43.2
Definitions.
43.3
Student rights.
43.4
Annual notification of rights.
43.5
Access to records.
43.6
Limitations on access.
43.7
Access rights.
43.8
Destruction of records.
43.9
Procedures for granting access.
43.10
Right to challenge.
43.11
Informal proceedings.
43.12
Right to a hearing.
43.13
Right of appeal.
43.14
Consent.
43.15
Content of consent.
43.16
Copy to be provided to parents or eligible students.
43.17
Release of information for health or safety emergencies.
43.18
Record of access.
43.19
Transfer of information by third parties.
43.20
Directory information.
43.21
Standards for collection and maintenance of student records.
43.22
Assuring integrity of records.
43.23
Conduct of employees.

# Authority:
35 Stat. 72 (25 U.S.C. 295); Pub. L. 93-579, 88 Stat. 1896; Sec. 438, Pub. L. 93-380, as amended; Pub. L. 94-142.

# Source:
43 FR 52024, Nov. 8, 1978, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 47 FR 13327, Mar. 30, 1982.
§ 43.1
Purpose and scope.
This part contains the regulations of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior, governing the maintenance, control, and accessibility of student records. This part will apply to all educational institutions under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, whether operated under contract or otherwise.
§ 43.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior.
(b)
Educational institution
means any institution operated under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Indian Affairs either directly or by contract, including, but not limited to, schools or dormitories from which Indian students attend public schools.
(c)
Eligible student
means a student who has become 18 years of age or is attending an institution of post-secondary education. When a student becomes an
eligible student,
the permission required of and the rights given to the parents of the student shall thereafter only be required of and given to the student.
(d)
Parent
means a natural parent, an adoptive parent, the legal guardian, or a legal custodian of a student. (Where the natural parents are unavailable, a required written parental consent may be obtained from the person who has assumed custody of the student.) For purposes of the Education of All Handicapped Children Act, the term
parent
also includes a
surrogate
as referred to in 20 U.S.C. 1415(b)(1)(B).
(e)
Student records
means those records, files, documents, and other materials which contain information directly related to a student and which are maintained by an educational institution, or by a person acting for that institution. The term does not include:
(1) Records of any educational personnel which are in the sole possession of the maker and which are not accessible or revealed to any other person except a substitute.
(2) Records made and maintained in the normal course of business which relate exclusively to persons who are employed in an educational institution but do not attend that institution.
(3) Directory information as given in § 43.20.
(4) Records on a student who is 18 years of age or older, or is attending an institution of post-secondary education, which are made or maintained by a physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, or other recognized professional or paraprofessional acting in his professional or paraprofessional capacity, or assisting in that capacity, and which are made, maintained, or used only in connection with the provision of treatment to the student, and are
not available to anyone other than persons providing such treatment, except that such records can be personally reviewed by a physician or other appropriate professional of the student's choice.
§ 43.3
Student rights.
The regulations in this part do not prevent educational institutions from giving noneligible students rights similar to those given to parents and eligible students. Educational institutions may do so at their discretion.
§ 43.4
Annual notification of rights.
(a) Each educational institution to which this part applies and which maintains records on students shall inform parents or eligible students of the rights given them by this part.
(b) In meeting the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section the educational institution shall give notice to parents and eligible students at least annually of the following:
(1) The types of education records and information contained in them which are directly related to students and maintained by the institution.
(2) The name and position of the official responsible for maintaining each type of record, the persons who have access to those records, and the purpose for which they have access.
(3) The policies of the institution for reviewing and expunging those records.
(4) The procedures established by the institution under § 43.5.
(5) The procedures for challenging the content of education records including those in § 43.10.
(6) The cost, if any, which will be charged to the parent or eligible student for reproducing copies of records under § 43.5.
(7) The categories of information which the institution has designated as “directory information” under § 43.20.
(c) The notice given to a parent or eligible student under this section shall be in a language considered by the institution to be understandable by the parent or eligible student.
§ 43.5
Access to records.
Educational institutions shall give parents of students or eligible students, who are or have been in attendance at the institutions, access to student records, except as stated in § 43.6.
§ 43.6
Limitations on access.
Educational institutions are not required to make available to students the following materials:
(a) Financial records of the parents of the student or any information contained in those records.
(b) Confidential letters and statements of recommendations, which were placed in any student's record prior to January 1, 1975, and which are not used for purposes other than those for which they were specifically intended.
(c) Those records listed in § 43.2(e) which are exempt from the definition of
student records.
§ 43.7
Access rights.
The right of access specified in § 43.5 shall include:
(a) The right to obtain a list of the types of student records which are maintained by the institution.
(b) The right to inspect and review the content of those records.
(c) The right to obtain copies of those records, the cost, if any, not to exceed the actual cost to the educational institution of reproducing the copies.
(d) The right to a response from the institution to reasonable requests for explanations and interpretations of those records.
(e) The right to an opportunity for a hearing to challenge the content of records.
(f) If any material or document in the record of a student includes information on more than one student, the right to inspect and review only that portion of such material or document as relates to that particular student or to be informed of the specific information contained in such part of such materials.
§ 43.8
Destruction of records.
This part does not prevent educational institutions from destroying any records, if not otherwise prevented by law. However, access shall be granted under § 43.5 before destroying student records where the parent or eligible student has requested access. Only records which are no longer relevant or
necessary may be destroyed, subject to § 43.23(c).
§ 43.9
Procedures for granting access.
Each educational institution shall establish appropriate procedures for granting a request by parents for access to the records of their children, or by eligible students for access to their own records within a reasonable period of time. In no case shall access be withheld more than forty-five (45) days after the request has been made.
§ 43.10
Right to challenge.
Each educational institution shall give parents of students and eligible students, who are or have been in attendance at the institution, an opportunity to challenge the content of the student's records to:
(a) Insure that the records are not inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise violating the privacy or other rights of students.
(b) Provide an opportunity for correcting or deleting any inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise inappropriate data in the record.
(c) Insert into such records a written comment by the parents or eligible students pertaining to the content of such records.
§ 43.11
Informal proceedings.
Educational institutions may attempt to resolve differences with the parent of a student or the eligible student regarding the content of the student's records through informal meetings and discussions with the parent or eligible student.
§ 43.12
Right to a hearing.
Upon the request of the educational institution, the parent, or eligible student, a hearing shall be conducted under the procedures adopted and published by the institution. Such procedures shall include at least the following elements:
(a) The hearing shall be conducted and decided within a reasonable period of time following the request for the hearing.
(b) The hearing shall be informal and a verbatim record of proceedings will not be required. Interpreters will be utilized when necessary.
(c) The hearing shall be conducted by an institutional official or other party who does not have a direct interest in the outcome of the hearing.
(d) The parents or eligible student shall be given a full and fair opportunity to present evidence relevant to the issues raised under § 43.10.
(e) Within a reasonable period of time after the hearing ends, the hearing official shall make his recommendation in writing to the head of the educational institution. Within 20 days after receipt of the recommendation, the head of the institution shall issue his decision in writing to the parent or eligible student.
§ 43.13
Right of appeal.
If any parent or eligible student is adversely affected by the decision of the head of the institution, that party shall have appeal rights as given in 25 CFR part 2. However, each official decision shall be issued within 30 days from receipt of the appeal.
§ 43.14
Consent.
Educational institutions shall not permit access to or the release of student records or personally identifiable information contained in them, other than directory information of students, without the written consent of the parents or of an eligible student, to any party other than the following:
(a) Local school officials, including teachers within the educational institution, who have been determined by the institution to have legitimate educational interests in the records.
(b) Officials of other schools or school systems at which a student is interested in enrolling. The student or parent must be notified of such release except in cases involving Bureau of Indian Affairs schools. All Bureau of Indian Affairs schools are considered to be components of one school system whether operated under contract or otherwise.
(c) Persons having official involvement with a student's application for or grant of financial aid.
(d) Parents of a dependent student as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.
(e) Accreditation agencies in order to carry out their accrediting functions.
(f) U.S. Office of Education officials and other governmental education officials when deemed necessary by the institution to carry out their official functions.
(g) An education testing center or similar institution as a part of its validation research which has been authorized by the school.
(h) In an emergency, any person to whom the information is necessary in the discretion of the school's administration in order to protect the student's health and safety, subject to § 43.17.
(i) Indian groups, contractors, grantees, professional social service organizations and personnel performing professional services, when necessary to carry out an official function authorized by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
(j) Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction; however, the parent or eligible student must be notified of such order in advance of compliance therewith by the educational institution.
§ 43.15
Content of consent.
The consent of a parent or eligible student requested under this part for the release of student records shall be in writing, signed and dated by the person giving the consent. The consent shall include:
(a) A specification of the records to be released.
(b) The reasons for release.
(c) The names of the parties to whom the records will be released.
§ 43.16
Copy to be provided to parents or eligible students.
Where the consent of a parent or eligible student is required under this part for the release of student records, a copy of the records to be released shall be provided on request to:
(a) The student's parents or the eligible student.
(b) The student who is not an eligible student, if desired by the parents.
§ 43.17
Release of information for health or safety emergencies.
(a) Educational institutions may release information from student records to appropriate persons in an emergency if the information is necessary to protect the health or safety of a student or other person. The factors to be used in determining whether records may be released under this section include the following:
(1) The seriousness of the threat to the health or safety of the student or other persons.
(2) The need for those records to meet the emergency.
(3) Whether the persons to whom the records are released are in a position to deal with the emergency.
(4) The extent to which time is of the essence in dealing with the emergency.
§ 43.18
Record of access.
(a) Each educational institution shall maintain a record kept with the student records of each student, which will indicate all parties other than those specified in § 43.14 which have requested or obtained access to those records and which will indicate specifically the legitimate interest that each party had in obtaining this information.
(b) A record of access shall be available only to:
(1) Parents or eligible students.
(2) The school official and his or her assistants who are responsible for the custody of such records.
(3) Persons or organizations authorized in and under the conditions of § 43.14.
§ 43.19
Transfer of information by third parties.
(a) Educational institutions shall not release personal information on a student except on the condition that the party to which the information is being transferred will not permit any other party to have access to the information without the written consent of the parents or of the eligible students.
(b) With any information released to a party under paragraph (a) of this section, educational institutions shall include a written statement which informs the party of the requirement in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 43.20
Directory information.
(a) Any educational institution making public directory information shall
make a reasonable effort to individually notify the parent or eligible student of the categories of information which it has designated as directory information. The institution shall allow a reasonable period of time after notice has been given for a parent or eligible student to inform the institution that any or all of the information designated should not be released without the prior consent of the parent or eligible student.
(b) Directory information may include the following: A student's name, address, telephone listing, date and place of birth, major field of study, participation in officially recognized activities and sports, weight and height of members of athletic teams, dates of attendance, degrees and awards received, and the most recent previous educational agency or institution attended by the student, tribe, agency, area, name of parent, sex, and classification (grade). No other information may be included. Educational institutions have the right to limit the content of directory information.
§ 43.21
Standards for collection and maintenance of student records.
(a) Records shall contain only information about an individual which is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the Bureau required to be accomplished by statute or Executive order of the President.
(b) Student records which are used in making any determination about any student shall be maintained with such accuracy, relevance, timeliness, and completeness as is reasonably necessary to assure fairness to the student in making the determination.
(c) Information which may be used in determining a student's rights, benefits, and privileges under Federal programs shall be collected directly from the student or his parents, to the greatest extent practicable. In deciding whether collection of information from a parent or eligible student, as opposed to a third-party source is practicable, the following factors among others may be considered:
(1) Whether the nature of the information sought is such that it can only be obtained from a third party.
(2) Whether the cost of collecting the information from the parent or student is unreasonable, when compared with the cost of collecting it from a third party.
(3) Whether there is a risk that information collected from third parties, if inaccurate, could result in an adverse determination to the student concerned.
(4) Whether the information, if supplied by the parent or student, would have to be verified by a third party.
(5) Whether provisions can be made for verification by the parent of student of information collected from third parties.
(d) Each individual parent or eligible student who is asked to supply information about himself which will be added to a system of student records shall be notified of the basis for requesting the information, how it may be used, and what the consequences, if any, are of not supplying the information. At a minimum, the notice to the parent or eligible student must state:
(1) The authority (whether granted by statute or Executive Order of the President) which authorizes requesting the information and whether disclosure of such information is mandatory or voluntary.
(2) The principle purpose or purposes for which the information is intended to be used.
(3) The routine uses which may be made of the information.
(4) The effects, if any, of not providing all or any part of the requested information.
(e) When information is collected on a standard form, the notice to the parent or eligible student shall be on the form or on a tear-off sheet attached to the form or on a separate sheet, whichever, is most practical.
(f) When information is collected by an interviewer, the interviewer shall provide the parent or eligible student with a written notice which the individual may retain. If the interview is conducted by telephone, however, the interviewer may summarize the notice for the individual and need not provide a copy to the individual unless the individual requests that a copy be mailed to him.
(g) A parent or eligible student may be asked to acknowledge, in writing, that he has been given the notice required by this section.
(h) No student records may be maintained describing how any individual exercises rights guaranteed by the first amendment to the Constitution unless:
(1) Expressly authorized by statute or by the individual about whom the student record is maintained; or
(2) Pertinent to and within the scope of an authorized law enforcement activity.
§ 43.22
Assuring integrity of records.
(a) Student records shall be maintained with appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to insure the security and confidentiality of records and to protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to their security or integrity which could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to any individual on whom information is maintained.
(b) When maintained in manual form, student records shall be maintained, at a minimum, subject to the following safeguards, or safeguards giving comparable protection:
(1) Areas in which the student records are maintained or regularly used shall be posted with an appropriate warning, stating that access to the records is limited to authorized persons. The warning shall also summarize the requirements of § 43.23 and state that employees may be subject to a criminal penalty for the unauthorized disclosure of student records.
(2) During working hours, the area in which the student records are maintained or regularly used shall be occupied by authorized personnel, or access to the student records shall be restricted by their storage in locked metal file cabinets or a locked room.
(3) During nonworking hours, access to the student records shall be restricted by their storage in locked metal file cabinets or a locked room.
(4) Where a locked room is the method of security provided for a system, the educational institution responsible for the system shall, no later than December 31, 1978, supplement that security by:
(i) Providing lockable file cabinets or containers for the student records, or
(ii) Changing the lock or locks for the room so that they may not be opened with a master key. For the purpose of this paragraph, a master is a key which may be used to open rooms other than the room containing student records, unless those rooms are used by officials or employees authorized to have access to the student records.
(c) When maintained in computerized form, student records shall be maintained, at a minimum, subject to safeguards based on those recommended in the National Bureau of Standards' booklet, “Computer Security Guidelines for Implementing the Privacy Act of 1974” (May 30, 1975), and any supplements to it, which are adequate and appropriate to assure the integrity of records in the system.
(d) The education institution responsible for a system of student records shall be responsible for assuring that specific procedures are developed to assure that the student records in the system for which it is responsible are maintained with security meeting the regulations in this section. These procedures shall be in writing and shall be posted or otherwise periodically brought to the attention of employees working with the student records contained in the system.
§ 43.23
Conduct of employees.
(a) Employees whose duties require handling of student records shall, at all times, take care to protect the integrity, security, and confidentiality of these records.
(b) No employee of the educational institution may disclose student records unless disclosure is permitted under § 43.14 or made to the parent of the student or eligible student to whom the record pertains.
(c) No employee of the educational institution may alter or destroy a student record, unless:
(1) Alteration or destruction is properly undertaken in the course of the employee's regular duties, or
(2) Alteration or destruction is required by an authorized administrative decision or the decision of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(d) The educational institution responsible for a system of student records shall be responsible for assuring that employees with access to the system are made aware of the requirements of this section.
Pt. 44

# PART 44—GRANTS UNDER THE TRIBALLY CONTROLLED SCHOOLS ACT
Sec.
44.101
What directives apply to a grantee under this part?
44.102
Does this part affect existing tribal rights?
44.103
Who is eligible for a grant?
44.104
How can a grant be terminated?
44.105
How does a tribal governing body retrocede a program to the Secretary?
44.106
How can the Secretary revoke an eligibility determination?
44.107
Under what circumstances may the Secretary reassume a program?
44.108
How must the Secretary make grant payments?
44.109
What happens if the grant recipient is overpaid?
44.110
What Indian Self-Determination Act provisions apply to grants under the Tribally Controlled Schools Act?
44.111
Does the Federal Tort Claims Act apply to grantees?
44.112
Information Collection

# Authority:
Public Law 107-110, Title 10, Part D, the Native American Education Improvement Act, 115 Stat. 2007; Part B, Section 1138, Regional Meetings and Negotiated Rulemaking, 115 Stat. 2057.

# Source:
70 FR 22219, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 44.101
What directives apply to a grantee under this part?
In making a grant under this part the Secretary will use only:
(a) The Tribally Controlled Schools Act;
(b) The regulations in this part; and
(c) Guidelines, manuals, and policy directives agreed to by the grantee.
§ 44.102
Does this part affect existing tribal rights?
This part does not:
(a) Affect in any way the sovereign immunity from suit enjoyed by Indian tribes;
(b) Terminate or change the trust responsibility of the United States to any Indian tribe or individual Indian;
(c) Require an Indian tribe to apply for a grant; or
(d) Impede awards by any other Federal agency to any Indian tribe or tribal organization to administer any Indian program under any other law.
§ 44.103
Who is eligible for a grant?
The Secretary can make grants to Indian tribes and tribal organizations that operate:
(a) A school under the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.;
(b) A tribally controlled school (including a charter school, community-generated school or other type of school) approved by tribal governing body; or
(c) A Bureau-funded school approved by tribal governing body.
§ 44.104
How can a grant be terminated?
A grant can be terminated only by one of the following methods:
(a) Retrocession;
(b) Revocation of eligibility by the Secretary; or
(c) Reassumption by the Secretary.
§ 44.105
How does a tribal governing body retrocede a program to the Secretary?
(a) To retrocede a program, the tribal governing body must:
(1) Notify the Bureau in writing, by formal action of the tribal governing body; and
(2) Consult with the Bureau to establish a mutually agreeable effective date. If no date is agreed upon, the retrocession is effective 120 days after the tribal governing body notifies the Bureau.
(b) The Bureau must accept any request for retrocession that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) After the tribal governing body retrocedes a program:
(1) The tribal governing body decides whether the school becomes Bureau-operated or contracted under 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.;
and
(2) If the tribal governing body decides that the school is to be Bureau-operated, the Bureau must provide education-related services in at least the
same quantity and quality as those that were previously provided.
§ 44.106
How can the Secretary revoke an eligibility determination?
(a) In order to revoke eligibility, the Secretary must:
(1) Provide the tribe or tribal organization with a written notice;
(2) Furnish the tribe or tribal organization with technical assistance to take remedial action; and
(3) Provide an appeal process.
(b) The Secretary cannot revoke an eligibility determination if the tribe or tribal organization is in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 2505(c).
(c) The Secretary can take corrective action if the school fails to be accredited by January 8, 2005.
(d) In order to revoke eligibility for a grant, the Secretary must send the tribe or tribal organization a written notice that:
(1) States the specific deficiencies that are the basis of the revocation or reassumption; and
(2) Explains what actions the tribe or tribal organization must take to remedy the deficiencies.
(e) The tribe or tribal organization may appeal a notice of revocation or reassumption by requesting a hearing under 25 CFR part 900, subpart L or P.
(f) After revoking eligibility, the Secretary will either contract the program under 25 U.S.C. 450
et seq.
or operate the program directly.
§ 44.107
Under what circumstances may the Secretary reassume a program?
The Secretary may only reassume a program in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 450m and 25 CFR part 900, subpart P. The tribe or school board shall have a right to appeal the reassumption pursuant to 25 CFR part 900, subpart L.
§ 44.108
How must the Secretary make grant payments?
(a) The Secretary makes two annual grant payments.
(1) The first payment, consisting of 80 per cent of the amount that the grantee was entitled to receive during the previous academic year, must be made no later than July 1 of each year; and
(2) The second payment, consisting of the remainder to which the grantee is entitled for the academic year, must be made no later than December 1 of each year.
(b) For funds that become available for obligation on October 1, the Secretary must make payments no later than December 1.
(c) If the Secretary does not make grant payments by the deadlines stated in this section, the Secretary must pay interest under the Prompt Payment Act. If the Secretary does not pay this interest, the grantee may pursue the remedies provided under the Prompt Payment Act.
§ 44.109
What happens if the grant recipient is overpaid?
(a) If the Secretary has mistakenly overpaid the grant recipient, then the Secretary will notify the grant recipient of the overpayment. The grant recipient must return the overpayment within 30 days after the final determination that overpayment occurred.
(b) When the grant recipient returns the money to the Secretary, the Secretary will distribute the money equally to all schools in the system.
§ 44.110
What Indian Self-Determination Act provisions apply to grants under the Tribally Controlled Schools Act?
(a) The following provisions of 25 CFR part 900 apply to grants under the Tribally Controlled Schools Act.
(1) Subpart F; Standards for Tribal or Tribal Organization Management Systems, § 900.45.
(2) Subpart H; Lease of Tribally-owned Buildings by the Secretary.
(3) Subpart I; Property Donation Procedures.
(4) Subpart N; Post-award Contract Disputes.
(5) Subpart P; Retrocession and Reassumption Procedures.
(b) To resolve any disputes arising from the Secretary's administration of the requirements of this part, the procedures in subpart N of part 900 apply if the dispute involves any of the following:
(1) Any exception or problem cited in an audit;
(2) Any dispute regarding the grant authorized;
(3) Any dispute involving an administrative cost grant;
(4) Any dispute regarding new construction or facility improvement or repair; or
(5) Any dispute regarding the Secretary's denial or failure to act on a request for facilities funds.
§ 44.111
Does the Federal Tort Claims Act apply to grantees?
Yes, the Federal Tort Claims Act applies to grantees.
§ 44.112
Information collection.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person is required to respond to, nor shall any person be subject to a penalty for failure to comply with a collection of information, subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) (PRA), unless that collection of information displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control Number. This part in § 44.105 contains collections of information subject to the PRA. These collections have been approved by OMB under control number 1076-0163.
Pt. 46

# PART 46—ADULT EDUCATION PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
46.1
Purpose and scope.
46.2
Definitions.
46.3
Information collection.
46.10
Eligible activities.
46.20
Program requirements.
46.30
Records and reporting requirements.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Authority:
43 U.S.C. 1457; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 13.

# Source:
62 FR 44081, Aug. 19, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 46.1
Purpose and scope.
The purpose of the Adult Education Program is to:
(a) Improve educational opportunities for Indian adults who lack the level of literacy skills necessary for effective citizenship and productive employment;
(b) Expand and improve existing programs for delivering adult education services, including delivery of these services to educationally disadvantaged Indian adults; and
(c) Encourage the establishment of adult education programs that will:
(1) Enable Indian adults to acquire adult basic educational skills necessary for literate functioning;
(2) Provide Indian adults with sufficient basic education to enable them to benefit from job training and retraining programs and to obtain and retain productive employment so that they might more fully enjoy the benefits and responsibilities of citizenship; and
(3) Enable Indian adults, who so desire, to continue their education to at least the level of completion of adult secondary education.
§ 46.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Adult
means an individual who has attained the age of sixteen or is beyond the age of compulsory school attendance under State or tribal law and not currently enrolled in a formal secondary or post-secondary educational program.
Adult Basic Education
(ABE) means instruction designed for an adult who:
(1) Has minimal competence in reading, writing, and computation;
(2) Cannot speak, read, or write the English language sufficiently to allow employment commensurate with the adult's real ability;
(3) Is not sufficiently competent to meet the educational requirements of an adult consumer; or
(4) In grade level measurements that would be designated as grades 0 through 8.
Adult Education
means services or instruction below the college level for adults who:
(1) Lack sufficient mastery of basic educational skills to enable them to function effectively in society, or
(2) Do not have a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education and have not achieved a GED.
Adult Education Office
means the BIA or tribal office administering funds appropriated to the BIA, under the TPA, for Adult Education programs.
Adult Secondary Education
means instruction designed for an adult who:
(1) Is literate and can function in everyday life, but is not proficient as a competitive consumer or employee; or
(2) Does not have a certificate of graduation (or its equivalent) from a school providing secondary education and in grade level measurements that would be designated as grades 9 through 12.
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, or his/her designee.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Department of Education
(ED) means the U.S. Department of Education.
Director
means the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs, Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Indian
means a person who is a member of, or is at least a one-fourth degree Indian blood descendent of a member of, an Indian tribe, and is eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States through the Bureau of Indian Affairs to Indians because of their status as Indians;
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, pueblo, colony or community, including any Alaska native village or regional or village corporation as defined in, or established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 668) that is Federally recognized by the United States Government through the Secretary of the Interior for the special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Tribal Priority Allocation
(TPA) means the BIA's budget formulation process that allows direct tribal government involvement in the setting of relative priorities for local operating programs.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Department of the Interior.
Service area
means the geographic area served by the local Adult Education Program.
§ 46.3
Information collection.
Information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned control number 1076-0120. This information is being collected to assess the need for adult education programs. The information collection is used to manage program resources and for fiscal accountability and appropriate direct services documentation. Response to this request is necessary to obtain or retain a benefit. Public reporting burden for this form is estimated to average 4 hours per response including time for reviewing instructions, gathering, maintaining data, completing and reviewing the form. Direct comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this form to the BIA Information Collection Clearance Officer, 1849 C Street NW., Washington, DC 20240.
[67 FR 13570, Mar. 25, 2002]
§ 46.10
Eligible activities.
(a) Subject to availability of funds, funds appropriated for the BIA's Adult Education Program may be used to support local projects or programs designed to:
(1) Enable Indian adults to acquire basic educational skills, including literacy;
(2) Enable Indian adults to continue their education through the secondary school level;
(3) Establish career education projects intended to improve employment opportunities;
(4) Provide educational services or instruction for elderly, disabled, or incarcerated Indian adults;
(5) Prepare individuals to benefit from occupational training; and
(6) Teach employment-related skills.
(b) Funds should not be used to support programs designed solely to prepare Indian adults to enter a specific occupation or cluster of closely related occupations.
(c) The Adult Education Program must be implemented in accordance with a plan established by the tribe(s) affected by the program. The tribe(s) may determine to set standards in addition to those established in this part.
§ 46.20
Program requirements.
(a) The Adult Education Office will implement the program or project that is designed to address the needs of the Indian adults in the service area. To
determine the needs of Indian adults in the area, the Adult Education Office must consider:
(1) Elementary/secondary school dropout or absentee rates;
(2) Average grade level completed;
(3) Unemployment rates; and
(4) Other appropriate measures.
(b) The Adult Education Office, to ensure efforts that no duplication of services exists, will identify other services in the area, including those offered by Federal, State and Tribal entities, that are designed to meet the same needs as those to be addressed by the project, and the number of Indian adults who receive those services.
(c) The Adult Education Office must establish and maintain an evaluation plan.
(1) The plan must be designed to measure the project's effectiveness in meeting each objective and the impact of the project on the adults involved; and
(2) The plan must provide procedures for periodic assessment of the progress of the project and, if necessary, modification of the project as a result of that assessment.
(d) Subject to the availability of funds, the project is to be supported under the funding level established for Adult Education in the formulation of the budget under the TPA process.
§ 46.30
Records and reporting requirements.
(a) The Adult Education Office will annually submit a report on the previous project year's activities to the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs. The report must include the following information:
(1) The type of eligible activity, under § 46.10, conducted under the project(s);
(2) The number of participants acquiring the GED, high school diploma, and other certificates of performance; and
(3) A narrative summary of the activities conducted under the project.
(b) Each Adult Education Office must:
(1) Submit any records and information that the Director requires in connection with the administration of the program; and
(2) Comply with any requirements that the Director may impose to ensure the accuracy of the reports required by this part.
Subpart B [Reserved]
Pt. 47

# PART 47—UNIFORM DIRECT FUNDING AND SUPPORT FOR BUREAU-OPERATED SCHOOLS
Sec.
47.1
What is the purpose of this part?
47.2
What definitions apply to terms in this part?
47.3
How does a Bureau-operated school find out how much funding it will receive?
47.4
When does OIEP provide funding?
47.5
What is the school supervisor responsible for?
47.6
Who has access to local education financial records?
47.7
What are the expenditure limitations for Bureau-operated schools?
47.8
Who develops the local educational financial plans?
47.9
What are the minimum requirements for the local educational financial plan?
47.10
How is the local educational financial plan developed?
47.11
Can these funds be used as matching funds for other Federal programs?
47.12
Information collection.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 107-110, 115 Stat. 1425.

# Source:
70 FR 22221, Apr. 28, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 47.1
What is the purpose of this part?
This part contains the requirements for developing local educational financial plans that Bureau-operated schools need in order to receive direct funding from the Bureau of Indian Affairs under section 1127 of the Act.
§ 47.2
What definitions apply to terms in this part?
Act
means the No Child Left Behind Act, Public Law 107-110, enacted January 8, 2002. The No Child Left Behind Act reauthorizes and amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) and the amended Education Amendments of 1978.
Budget
means that element in the local educational financial plan which shows all costs of the plan by discrete programs and sub-cost categories.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Affairs in the Department of the Interior.
Consultation
means soliciting and recording the opinions of Bureau-operated school boards regarding each element of the local educational financial plan and incorporating these opinions to the greatest degree feasible in the development of the local educational financial plan at each stage.
Director
means the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs.
Local educational financial plan
means the plan that:
(1) Programs dollars for educational services for a particular Bureau-operated school; and
(2) Has been ratified in an action of record by the local school board or determined by the superintendent under the appeals process in 25 CFR part 2.
OIEP
means the Office of Indian Education Programs in the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the Interior or a designated representative.
§ 47.3
How does a Bureau-operated school find out how much funding it will receive?
The Office of Indian Education Programs (OIEP) will notify each Bureau-operated school in writing of the annual funding amount it will receive as follows:
(a) No later than July 1 OIEP will let the Bureau-operated school know the amount that is 80 percent of its funding; and
(b) No later than September 30 OIEP will let the Bureau-operated school know the amount of the remaining 20 percent.
§ 47.4
When does OIEP provide funding?
By July 1 of each year OIEP will make available for obligation 80 percent of the funds for the fiscal year that begins on the following October 1.
§ 47.5
What is the school supervisor responsible for?
Each Bureau-operated school's school supervisor has the responsibilities in this section. The school supervisor must do all of the following:
(a) Ensure that the Bureau-operated school spends funds in accordance with the local educational financial plan, as ratified or amended by the school board;
(b) Sign all documents required to obligate or pay funds or to record receipt of goods and services;
(c) Report at least quarterly to the local school board on the amounts spent, obligated, and currently remaining in funds budgeted for each program in the local educational financial plan;
(d) Recommend changes in budget amounts to carry out the local educational financial plan, and incorporate these changes in the budget as ratified by the local school board, subject to provisions for appeal and overturn; and
(e) Maintain expenditure records in accordance with financial planning system procedures.
§ 47.6
Who has access to local education financial records?
The Comptroller General, the Assistant Secretary, the Director, or any of their duly authorized representatives have access for audit and explanation purposes to any of the local school's accounts, documents, papers, and records which are related to the Bureau-operated schools' operation.
§ 47.7
What are the expenditure limitations for Bureau-operated schools?
Each Bureau-operated school must spend all allotted funds in accordance with applicable Federal regulations and local education financial plans. If a Bureau-operated school and OIEP region or Agency support services staff disagree over expenditures, the Bureau-operated school must appeal to the Director for a decision.
§ 47.8
Who develops the local educational financial plans?
The local Bureau-operated school supervisor develops the local educational financial plan in active consultation with the local school board, based on the tentative allotment received.
§ 47.9
What are the minimum requirements for the local educational financial plan?
(a) The local educational financial plan must include:
(1) Separate funds for each group receiving a discrete program of services is to be provided, including each program funded through the Indian School Equalization Program;
(2) A budget showing the costs projected for each program; and
(3) A certification provision meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The certification required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section must provide for:
(1) Certification by the chairman of the school board that the plan has been ratified in an action of record by the board; and
(2) Certification by the Education Line Officer that he or she has approved the plan as shown in an action overturning the school board's rejection or amendment of the plan.
§ 47.10
How is the local educational financial plan developed?
(a) The following deadlines apply to development of the local educational financial plan:
(1) Within 15 days after receiving the tentative allotment, the school supervisor must consult with the local school board on the local educational financial plan.
(2) Within 30 days of receiving the tentative allotment, the school board must review the local educational financial plan and, by a quorum vote, ratify, reject, or amend, the plan.
(3) Within one week of the school board action under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the supervisor must either:
(i) Send the plan to the education line officer (ELO), along with the official documentation of the school board action; or
(ii) Appeal the school board's decision to the ELO.
(4) The ELO will review the local educational financial plan for compliance with laws and regulations and may refer the plan to the Solicitor's Office for legal review. If the ELO notes any problem with the plan, he or she must:
(i) Notify the local board and local supervisor of the problem within two weeks of receiving the plan;
(ii) Make arrangements to assist the local school supervisor and board to correct the problem; and
(iii) Refer the problem to the Director of the Office of Indian Education if it cannot be solved locally.
(b) When consulting with the school board under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the school supervisor must:
(1) Discuss the present program of the Bureau-operated school and any proposed changes he or she wishes to recommend;
(2) Give the school board members every opportunity to express their own ideas and views on the supervisor recommendations; and
(3) After the discussions required by paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, present a draft plan to the school board with recommendations concerning each of the elements.
(c) If the school board does not act within the deadline in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the supervisor must send the plan to the ELO for ratification. The school board may later amend the plan by a quorum vote; the supervisor must transmit this amendment in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
§ 47.11
Can these funds be used as matching funds for other Federal programs?
A Bureau-operated school may use funds that it receives under this part as matching funds for other Federal programs.
§ 47.12
Information collection.
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person is required to respond to, nor shall any person be subject to a penalty for failure to comply with, a collection of information subject to the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
) (PRA), unless that collection of information displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control Number. This part contains collections of information subject to the PRA in §§ 47.5, 47.7, 47.9, and 47.10. These collections have been approved
by OMB under control number 1076-1063.
Pt. 48

# PART 48—LEASES OF LAND OR FACILITIES OF BUREAU-OPERATED SCHOOLS AND FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES AT BUREAU-OPERATED SCHOOLS

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
48.1
What is the purpose of this part?
48.2
What is the scope of this part?
48.3
What definitions apply to terms in this part?
48.4
What accounting standards will the Bureau use in monitoring the receipt, holding, and use of funds?
48.5
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?

# Subpart B—Leasing of Bureau-operated Facilities
48.101
Who may enter into a lease on behalf of a Bureau-operated school?
48.102
With whom may the Director enter into a lease?
48.103
What facilities may be leased?
48.104
What standards will the Director use in determining whether to enter into a lease?
48.105
What provisions must a lease contain?
48.106
May a lessee construct permanent improvements under a lease?
48.107
What consideration may a Bureau-operated school accept in exchange for a lease?
48.108
How will the Bureau determine appropriate consideration for a lease?
48.109
Who may use the funds?
48.110
For what purposes may a Bureau-operated school use the funds?
48.111
How does a lessee pay the Bureau-operated school under a lease?
48.112
How are lease payments processed?
48.113
Will late payment charges or special fees apply to delinquent lease payments?
48.114
How long will the funds be available?
48.115
How will the Bureau monitor the results achieved by the use of funds received from leases?
48.116
Who may investigate compliance with a lease?
48.117
What will the Bureau do about a violation of a lease?
48.118
What will the Bureau do if a lessee does not cure a lease violation on time?
48.119
May a lease be assigned, subleased, or mortgaged?

# Subpart C—Fundraising Activities
48.201
To whom does this subpart apply?
48.202
May employees fundraise?
48.203
How much time may employees spend fundraising?
48.204
For what school purposes may employees fundraise?
48.205
What are the limitations on fundraising?
48.206
What approvals are necessary to accept a donation?
48.207
How may the donations solicited under this subpart be used?
48.208
How does a Bureau-operated school process donated funds?
48.209
How must the Bureau-operated school report donations?

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9; Pub. L. 112-74; Pub. L. 113-235; Pub. L. 114-113.

# Source:
86 FR 34947, July 1, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 48.1
What is the purpose of this part?
(a) The purpose of this part is to set forth processes and procedures to:
(1) Implement authorization for the Director or his or her designee to lease or rent Bureau-operated school facilities in exchange for consideration in the form of funds;
(2) Establish mechanisms and standards for leasing or renting of Bureau-operated facilities, and management and use of the funds received as consideration;
(3) Describe allowable fundraising activities by the employees of Bureau-operated schools;
(4) Set accountability standards to ensure ethical conduct; and
(5) Establish provisions for monitoring the amount and terms of consideration received, the manner in which the consideration is used, and any results achieved by such use.
(b) Nothing in this part affects:
(1) 25 CFR 31.2, allowing for use of Federal Indian school facilities for community activities and adult education activities upon approval by the superintendent or officer-in-charge, where no consideration is received in exchange for the use of the facilities;
(2) 25 CFR 31.7 and 36.43(g), establishing guidelines for student fundraising; or
(3) The implementing regulations for the Federal Employees Quarters Facilities Act, 5 U.S.C. 5911, at 41 CFR part
114-51 and policies at Departmental Manual part 400, chapter 3; or
(4) The use of Bureau-operated school facilities or lands by other Federal agencies so long as the use is memorialized in a written agreement between the Bureau and the other Federal agency.
§ 48.2
What is the scope of this part?
The leasing provisions of this part apply only to facilities of schools operated by the Bureau and the fundraising provisions of this part apply only to employees of schools operated by the Bureau. This part does not apply to public schools, Public Law 100-297 Tribally controlled schools, or Public Law 93-638 contract or grant schools.
§ 48.3
What definitions apply to terms in this part?
Assistant Secretary
means the Assistant Secretary—Indian Affairs or his or her designee.
Bureau
means the Bureau of Indian Education.
Bureau-operated school
means a day or boarding school, a dormitory for students attending a school other than a Bureau school, or an institution of higher learning and associated facilities operated by the Bureau. This term does not include public schools, Public Law 100-297 Tribally controlled schools, or Public Law 93-638 contract or grant schools.
Construction
means construction of new facilities, modification, or alteration of existing grounds or building structures.
Days
means calendar days unless otherwise specified.
Director
means the Director, Bureau of Indian Education.
Director's designee
or
designee
means the Associate Deputy Director—Navajo Schools or Associate Deputy Director—Bureau-Operated Schools.
Department
means the Department of the Interior.
Donation
means something of value (
e.g.,
funds, land, personal property) received from a non-Federal source without consideration or an exchange of value.
Employee
means an employee of the Bureau working at a Bureau-operated school.
Facilities
means land or facilities authorized for use by a Bureau-operated school.
Funds
means money.
Fundraising
means requesting donations, selling items, or providing a service, activity, or event to raise funds, except that writing a grant proposal to secure resources to support school purposes is not fundraising. Fundraising does not include requests for donated supplies, materials, in-kind services, or funds (
e.g.,
fees for school activities) that schools traditionally require or request parents and guardians of students to provide.
Head of the School
means the Principal, President, School Supervisor, Residential Life Director, Superintendent of the School, or equivalent head of a Bureau-operated school.
Lease
means a written contract or rental agreement executed in accordance with this part, granting the possession and use of facilities at a Bureau-operated school to a private or public person or entity in return for funds.
Private person or entity
means an individual who is not acting on behalf of a public person or entity and includes, but is not limited to, private companies, nonprofit organizations and any other entity not included in the definition of public person or entity.
Public person or entity
means a State, local, Federal, or Tribal governmental agency or unit thereof.
School purposes
means lawful activities and purchases for the benefit of students and school operations including, but not limited to: Academic, residential, and extra-curricular programs during or outside of the normal school day and year; books, supplies or equipment for school use; building construction, maintenance and/or operations; landscape construction, modifications, or maintenance on the school grounds.
§ 48.4
What accounting standards will the Bureau use in monitoring the receipt, holding, and use of funds?
The Bureau will use applicable Federal financial accounting rules in monitoring the receipt, holding, and use of funds.
§ 48.5
How does the Paperwork Reduction Act affect this part?
The collections of information in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and assigned OMB Control Number 1076-NEW and OMB Control Number 1090-0009. Response is required to obtain a benefit. A Federal agency may not conduct or sponsor, and you are not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB Control Number.

# Subpart B—Leasing of Bureau-operated Facilities
§ 48.101
Who may enter into a lease on behalf of a Bureau-operated school?
Only the Director or the Director's designee may enter into leases.
§ 48.102
With whom may the Director enter into a lease?
The Director or designee may lease to public or private persons or entities who meet the requirements of this part that are applicable to leasing activities.
§ 48.103
What facilities may be leased?
Any portion of a Bureau-operated school facility may be leased as long as the lease does not interfere with the normal operations of the Bureau-operated school, student body, or staff, and otherwise meets applicable requirements of this part.
§ 48.104
What standards will the Director use in determining whether to enter into a lease?
(a) The Director or designee will make the final decision regarding approval of a proposed lease. The Director or designee must ensure that the lease provides appropriate consideration that benefits the school and that the Head of the School where facilities are being leased has certified, after consultation with the school board or board of regents, that the lease meets the standards in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) The lease must:
(1) Comply with the mission of the school;
(2) Conform to principles of good order and discipline;
(3) Not interfere with existing or planned school activities or programs;
(4) Not interfere with school board staff and/or community access to the school;
(5) Not allow contact or access to students inconsistent with applicable law;
(6) Not result in any Bureau commitments after the lease expires; and
(7) Not compromise the safety and security of students and staff or damage facilities.
(c) The Director's or designee's decision on a proposed lease is discretionary and is not subject to review or appeal under part 2 of this chapter or otherwise.
§ 48.105
What provisions must a lease contain?
(a) All leases of Bureau-operated school facilities must identify at a minimum:
(1) The facility, or portion thereof, being leased;
(2) The purpose of the lease and authorized uses of the leased facility;
(3) The parties to the lease;
(4) The term of the lease, and any renewal term, if applicable;
(5) The ownership of permanent improvements and the responsibility for constructing, operating, maintaining, and managing permanent improvements, and meeting due diligence requirements under § 48.106;
(6) Payment requirements and late payment charges, including interest;
(7) That lessee will maintain insurance sufficient to cover negligence or intentional misconduct occurring on the leasehold; and
(8) Any bonding requirements, as required in the discretion of the Director. If a performance bond is required, the lease must state that the lessee must obtain the consent of the surety for any legal instrument that directly affects their obligations and liabilities.
(b) All leases of Bureau-operated facilities must include, at a minimum, the following provisions:
(1) There must not be any unlawful conduct, creation of a nuisance, illegal activity, or negligent use or waste of the leased premises;
(2) The lessee must comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, and other legal requirements;
(3) The Bureau has the right, at any reasonable time during the term of the lease and upon reasonable notice to enter the leased premises for inspection and to ensure compliance; and
(4) The Bureau may, at its discretion, treat as a lease violation any failure by the lessee to cooperate with a request to make appropriate records, reports, or information available for inspection and duplication.
(c) Unless the lessee would be prohibited by law from doing so, the lease must also contain the following provisions:
(1) The lessee holds the United States harmless from any loss, liability, or damages resulting from the lessee's, its invitees', and licensees' use or occupation of the leased facility; and
(2) The lessee indemnifies the United States against all liabilities or costs relating to the use, handling, treatment, removal, storage, transportation, or disposal of hazardous materials, or the release or discharge of any hazardous material from the leased premises that occurs during the lease term, regardless of fault with the exception that the lessee is not required to indemnify the United States for liability or cost arising from the United States' negligence or willful misconduct
§ 48.106
May a lessee construct permanent improvements under a lease?
(a) The lessee may construct permanent improvements under a lease of a Bureau-operated facility only if the lease contains the following provisions:
(1) A description of the type and location of any permanent improvements to be constructed by the lessee and a general schedule for construction of the permanent improvements, including dates for commencement and completion of construction;
(2) Specification of who owns the permanent improvements the lessee constructs during the lease term and specifies whether each specific permanent improvement the lessee constructs will:
(i) Remain on the leased premises, upon the expiration, cancellation, or termination of the lease, in a condition satisfactory to the Director, and become the property of the Bureau-operated school;
(ii) Be removed within a time period specified in the lease, at the lessee's expense, with the leased premises to be restored as closely as possible to their condition before construction of the permanent improvements; or
(iii) Be disposed of by other specified means.
(3) Due diligence requirements that require the lessee to complete construction of any permanent improvements within the schedule specified in the lease or general schedule of construction, and a process for changing the schedule by mutual consent of the parties.
(i) If construction does not occur, or is not expected to be completed, within the time period specified in the lease, the lessee must provide the Director with an explanation of good cause as to the nature of any delay, the anticipated date of construction of facilities, and evidence of progress toward commencement of construction.
(ii) Failure of the lessee to comply with the due diligence requirements of the lease is a violation of the lease and may lead to cancellation of the lease.
(b) The lessee must prepare the required information and analyses, including information to facilitate the Bureau's analysis under applicable environmental and cultural resource requirements.
(c) The Bureau may take appropriate enforcement action to ensure removal of the permanent improvements and restoration of the premises at the lessee's expense before or after expiration, termination, or cancellation of the lease. The Bureau may collect and hold the performance bond or alternative form of security until removal and restoration are completed.
§ 48.107
What consideration may a Bureau-operated school accept in exchange for a lease?
A Bureau-operated school may accept only funds as consideration for a lease.
§ 48.108
How will the Bureau determine appropriate consideration for a lease?
The Bureau will determine what consideration is appropriate for a lease by considering, at a minimum, the following factors:
(a) Fair market value and the indirect and direct costs of the lease; and
(b) Whether there will be a net financial benefit to the school.
§ 48.109
Who may use the funds?
The Bureau-operated school may use funds, including late payment charges, received as compensation for leasing that school's facilities.
§ 48.110
For what purposes may a Bureau-operated school use the funds?
The Bureau-operated school must use the funds for school purposes.
§ 48.111
How does a lessee pay the Bureau-operated school under a lease?
A lessee must pay consideration and any late payment charges due under the lease to the Bureau by certified check, money order, or electronic funds transfer made out to the Bureau and containing identifying information as provided for in the lease.
§ 48.112
How are lease payments processed?
The Bureau will deposit all funds received as lease consideration or late payment charge into the designated Treasury account. Once the Bureau deposits the funds, the Bureau will work with the Bureau-operated school to make the funds available for school purposes.
§ 48.113
Will late payment charges or special fees apply to delinquent lease payments?
(a) Late payment charges will apply as specified in the lease. The failure to pay these amounts will be treated as a lease violation.
(b) The Bureau may assess the following special fees to cover administrative costs incurred by the United States in the collection of the debt, if rent is not paid in the time and manner required, in addition to late payment charges that must be paid under the terms of the lease:
Table 1 to paragraph
(b)
The lessee will pay . . .
For . . .
(1) $50.00
Any dishonored check.
(2) $15.00
Processing of each notice or demand letter.
(3) 18 percent of balance due
Treasury processing following referral for collection of delinquent debt.
§ 48.114
How long will the funds be available?
Funds generated under these regulations remain available to the recipient school until expended, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, in accordance with the Bureau-operated school's plan for expending the funds for school purposes.
§ 48.115
How will the Bureau monitor the results achieved by the use of funds received from leases?
The Head of the School for each Bureau-operated school that has active leases under this part must submit an annual report to the Director, the designee, and the Office of Facilities Management and Construction. The report must contain the following information:
(a) A list of leases and the facilities covered by each lease;
(b) An accounting of receipts from each lease;
(c) An accounting of all expenditures and the supporting documentation showing that expenditures were made for school purposes;
(d) A report of the benefits provided by the leasing program as a whole;
(e) A certification that the terms of each lease were met or, if the terms of a lease were not met, the actions taken as a result of the noncompliance; and
(f) Any unexpected expenses incurred.
§ 48.116
Who may investigate compliance with a lease?
The Head of the School or his or her designee or any Bureau employee may enter the leased facility at any reasonable time, upon reasonable notice, and consistent with any notice requirements under the lease to determine if the lessee is in compliance with the requirements of the lease.
§ 48.117
What will the Bureau do about a violation of a lease?
(a) If the Bureau determines there has been a violation of the conditions of a lease, it will promptly send the lessee and any surety and mortgagee a notice of violation, by certified mail, return receipt requested.
(1) The notice of violation will advise the lessee that, within 10 business days of the receipt of a notice of violation, the lessee must:
(i) Cure the violation and notify the Bureau in writing that the violation has been cured;
(ii) Dispute the determination that a violation has occurred; or
(iii) Request additional time to cure the violation.
(2) The notice of violation may order the lessee to cease operations under the lease.
(b) A lessee's failure to pay compensation in the time and manner required by the lease is a violation of the lease, and the Bureau will issue a notice of violation in accordance with this section requiring the lessee to provide adequate proof of payment.
(c) The lessee and its sureties will continue to be responsible for the obligations in the lease until the lease expires, or is terminated or cancelled.
§ 48.118
What will the Bureau do if a lessee does not cure a lease violation on time?
(a) If the lessee does not cure a violation of a lease within the required time period, or provide adequate proof of payment as required in the notice of violation, the Bureau will take one or more of the following actions:
(1) Cancel the lease;
(2) Invoke other remedies available under the lease or applicable law, including collection on any available performance bond or, for failure to pay compensation, referral of the debt to the Department of the Treasury for collection; or
(3) Grant the lessee additional time in which to cure the violation.
(b) The Bureau may take action to recover unpaid compensation and any associated late payment charges under § 48.113, and does not have to cancel the lease or give any further notice to the lessee before taking action to recover unpaid compensation. The Bureau may still take action to recover any unpaid compensation if it cancels the lease.
(c) If the Bureau decides to cancel the lease, it will send the lessee and any surety and mortgagee a cancellation letter by certified mail, return receipt requested, within 5 business days of its decision. The cancellation letter will:
(1) Explain the grounds for cancellation;
(2) If applicable, notify the lessee of the amount of any unpaid compensation or late payment charges due under the lease;
(3) Notify the lessee of the lessee's right to appeal to the Director if the decision is made by the Director's designee, or to the Interior Board of Indian Appeals if the decision is made by the Director, including the possibility that the official to whom the appeal is made may require the lessee to post an appeal bond;
(4) Order the lessee to vacate the property within 31 days of the date of receipt of the cancellation letter, if an appeal is not filed by that time; and
(5) Order the lessee to take any other action the Bureau deems necessary to protect the facility.
(d) The Bureau may invoke any other remedies available under the lease, including collecting on any available performance bond.
§ 48.119
May a lease be assigned, subleased, or mortgaged?
A lessee may assign, sublease, or mortgage a lease only with the approval of the Director.

# Subpart C—Fundraising Activities
§ 48.201
To whom does this subpart apply?
This subpart applies to employees that fundraise for a Bureau-operated school. This subpart does not apply to students who fundraise.
§ 48.202
May employees fundraise?
(a) Employees may fundraise for school purposes as part of their official duties using their official title, position and authority, so long as:
(1) The Director or the Director's designee or the Head of the School approves the fundraising in advance and certifies that it complies with this subpart; and
(2) The employees ensure the fundraising conforms to the requirements of this subpart.
(b) Nothing in this part allows participation in political or other activities prohibited by law.
§ 48.203
How much time may employees spend fundraising?
Each authorized employee may spend no more than a reasonable portion of his or her official duty time as an employee in any calendar year fundraising.
§ 48.204
For what school purposes may employees fundraise?
Employees may fundraise for school purposes as defined in § 48.3.
§ 48.205
What are the limitations on fundraising?
(a) Fundraising may not include any gaming or gambling activity.
(b) Fundraising may not violate, or create an appearance of violating, any applicable ethics statutes or regulations.
(c) Donations from fundraising must maintain the integrity of the Bureau-operated school programs and operations, including but not limited to the following considerations:
(1) The donation may not, and may not appear, to be an attempt to influence the exercise of any regulatory or other authority of the Bureau;
(2) The donation may not require commitment of current or future funding that is not planned or available;
(3) The donation must be consistent with, and may not otherwise circumvent, law, regulation, or policy;
(4) The Bureau-operated school must be able to properly utilize or manage any donated real or personal property within policy, programmatic, and management goals;
(5) Any conditions on the donation must be consistent with authorized school purposes and any relevant policy or planning documents;
(6) The donation may not be used by the donor to state or imply endorsement by the Bureau or Bureau-operated school of the donor or the donor's products or services;
(7) The donation, if it consists of personnel or funding to hire personnel, must be structured such that the donated or funded personnel do not inappropriately influence any Bureau regulatory action or other significant decision.
(d) The fundraising and donation must maintain the impartiality, and appearance of impartiality, of the Bureau, Bureau-operated school, and its employees, including but not limited to the following considerations:
(1) The proposed donation may be only in an amount that would not influence or appear to influence any pending Bureau decision or action involving the donor's interests;
(2) There may be no actual or implied commitment to take an action favorable to the donor in exchange for the donation;
(3) The donor may not obtain or appear to obtain special treatment dealing with the Bureau or Bureau-operated school.
(e) The fundraising and donation must maintain public confidence in the Bureau and Bureau-operated school, its programs, and its personnel, including but not limited to the following considerations:
(1) The fundraising and acceptance of the donation would not likely result in public controversy;
(2) Any conditions on donations must be consistent with the Bureau and Bureau-operated school's policy, goals, and programs; and
(3) The fundraising and donation may not involve any inappropriate goods or services.
(f) Participation in fundraising is voluntary. No student, community member, or organization shall be forced, coerced or otherwise unduly pressured to participate in fundraising. No criticism nor any retaliatory action may be taken against, any student, community member, or organization for failure to participate or succeed in fundraising.
§ 48.206
What approvals are necessary to accept a donation under this subpart?
Prior to accepting a donation valued at $5,000 or more under this subpart, the Director's designee must approve the acceptance and certify that it complies with this subpart, including the considerations of § 48.205, Departmental policy, and any applicable statute or regulation.
§ 48.207
How may donations solicited under this subpart be used?
(a) The Bureau-operated school must first use the funds to pay documented costs of the fundraising activity and must use the remaining funds in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(b) Funds and in-kind donations solicited under this subpart may be used for the school purposes identified in the solicitation. If the solicitation did not identify the school purposes, the funds and in-kind donations may be used for any school purposes defined in § 48.3 of this part.
§ 48.208
How does a Bureau-operated school process donated funds?
The Bureau will deposit all funds received as donations into the designated Treasury account. Once the Bureau deposits the funds, the Bureau will work with the Bureau-operated school to make the funds available for school purposes.
§ 48.209
How must the Bureau-operated school report donations?
Each Bureau-operated school that has received donations must submit an annual report to the Director containing the following information:
(a) A list of donors, donation amounts, and estimated values of donated goods and services;
(b) An accounting of all costs of fundraising activities;
(c) Supporting documentation showing the donations were used for school purposes; and
(d) A report of the results achieved by use of donations.

# SUBCHAPTER F—TRIBAL GOVERNMENT
Pt. 61

# PART 61—PREPARATION OF ROLLS OF INDIANS
Sec.
61.1
Definitions.
61.2
Purpose.
61.3
Information collection.
61.4
Qualifications for enrollment and the deadline for filing application forms.
61.5
Notices.
61.6
Application forms.
61.7
Filing of application forms.
61.8
Verification forms.
61.9
Burden of proof.
61.10
Review of applications by tribal authorities.
61.11
Action by the Director or Superintendent.
61.12
Appeals.
61.13
Decision of the Assistant Secretary on appeals.
61.14
Preparation, certification and approval of the roll.
61.15
Special instructions.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2 and 9, 1300d-3(b), 1401
et seq.,
and Pub. L. 108-270.

# Source:
50 FR 46430, Nov. 8, 1985, unless otherwise noted.
§ 61.1
Definitions.
As used in these regulations:
Act
means any act of Congress authorizing or directing the Secretary to prepare a roll of a specific tribe, band, or group of Indians.
Adopted person
means a person whose natural parents' parental rights have been given to others to exercise by court order.
Approved roll
means a roll of Indians approved by the Secretary.
Assistant Secretary
