Proposed condominiums or existing condominiums with declarant in control or marketing units
—(1)
Low rise and high rise condominiums.
Low rise and high rise condominiums shall comply with local building codes. Only the alterations, improvements, or repairs to low rise and high rise buildings proposed to be converted to the condominium form of ownership must comply with current local building codes, unless local authorities require total code compliance on the entire structure when a building is being converted to the condominium form of ownership. In those areas where local standards are nonexistent, inferior to, or in conflict with Department of Veterans Affairs objectives, a certification will be required from a registered professional architect and/or registered engineer certifying that the plans and specifications conform to one of the national building codes which is typical of similar construction methods and standards for condominiums used in the area. Those portions of the condominium conversion which are not being altered, improved or repaired must be appraised in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Horizontal condominiums.
Department of Veterans Affairs policies and procedures applicable to single-family residential construction shall also apply to horizontal condominiums. Proposed or existing (declarant in control or marketing units) horizontal condominium conversions shall comply with current local building codes for alterations and improvements or repairs made to convert the building to the condominium form of ownership unless local authorities require total code compliance on the entire structure when a building is being converted to the condominium form of ownership. In those areas where local standards are nonexistent, inferior to, or in conflict with Department of Veterans Affairs objectives, a certification will be required from a professional architect and/or registered engineer certifying that the plans and specifications conform to one of the national building codes which is typical of similar construction methods and standards for condominiums used in the area. Those portions of the condominium conversion which are not being altered, improved or repaired must be appraised in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
(3)
Unit completion.
All units in the individual project or phase must be substantially completed except for customer preference items, such as interior finishes, appliances or equipment.
(4)
Common element completion.
All amenities of the condominium (to include offsite community facilities), that are to be considered in the unit value, must be bound legally to the condominium regime. All such amenities as well as the common elements of the project, must be substantially completed and available for use by the unit owners. In large multi-phase projects, the declarant should construct common elements in a manner consistent with the addition of units to support the entire development. The Secretary, in appropriate cases, may approve the placement of adequate funds by the declarant in an escrow or otherwise earmarked account or accept
a letter of credit or surety bond to assure completion of amenities and allow closing of VA-guaranteed (or insured) loans. Such funds must be adequate to assure completion of the amenities free and clear of all liens.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1), 3710(a)(6))
(5)
Information brochure/public offering statement.
When units are being sold by the declarant (not applicable to resales), an information brochure/public offering statement must be given to veteran buyers prior to the time a down payment is received and an agreement is signed, unless State law authorized receipt of the down payment and delivery of the information brochure followed by a period in which purchasers may cancel the purchase agreement without penalty for a specified number of days. Information brochures must be written in simple terms to inform buyers that the association does not provide owner's contents and personal liability policies which are the owner's responsibility. In the event the development is expandable, series, etc., there must be full disclosure of the impact of the total development plan. In expandable, series or other projects with more than one phase, the information brochure must disclose fully later development rights, and the general plans of the declarant for additional phases. If the declarant makes no assurance concerning phases which are not required to be built, the declarant should state that no assurances are given concerning construction, unit sizes, building types, architectural styles, etc. In condominium conversions, the information brochure must list the major structural and mechanical components and the estimated remaining useful life of the components. A brief explanation must be furnished in the brochure explaining that certain major structural or mechanical components may require replacement within a specified time period. If the declarant has elected to place funds into a condominium reserve fund for replacement of a major component under the provisions of § 36.4365(b)(7), the amount of the contribution into the reserve fund must be specified in the information brochure.
(6)
Evidence of proper phasing.
In an expandable or flexible condominium, evidence of the addition of each phase in accordance with a previously approved general plan of development must be submitted to the Secretary prior to the guaranty of the first loan in the added area.
(7)
Additional condominium conversion requirements.
(i) The declarant of any condominium project must furnish structural and mechanical common element component statements on the present condition of all accessible structural and mechanical components material to the use and enjoyment of the condominium. These statements must be completed by a registered professional engineer and/or architect prior to the guaranty of the first unit loan in the project. Each statement must also give an estimate of the expected useful life of the roof, elevators, heating and cooling, plumbing and electrical systems assuming normal maintenance. A minimum of 10 years estimated remaining useful life is required on all structural and mechanical components. In the alternative, the declarant may contribute an amount of funds to the condominium reserve fund equal to a minimum of
1/10
(one-tenth) of the estimated costs of replacement of a major structural or mechanical component (as determined by an independent registered professional architect or engineer) for each year of estimated remaining useful life less than 10 years, e.g. 7 years remaining useful life equals a
3/10
required declarant contribution to the reserve fund of the component's estimated replacement cost. The noted statements and remaining useful life requirement are not applicable to existing resale conversion projects when the declarant is no longer marketing units and/or in control of the association. Expandable or series condominium conversions require engineering and architectural statements on each stage or phase.
(ii) In declarant controlled projects, a statement(s) by the local authority(ies) of the adequacy of offsite utilities servicing the site (e.g., sanitary or water) is required. If a local authority(ies) declines to issue such a statement(s), a statement(s) may be obtained from a registered professional
engineer. If local authority(ies) declines to issue such a statement(s), a statement(s) may be obtained from a registered professional engineer.
(c)
Presale requirements:
(1)
Proposed construction or existing declarant in control.
Bona fide agreements of sale must have been executed by purchasers other than the declarant (who are obligated contractually to complete the purchase) of 70 percent of the total number of units in the project. Lenders shall certify as to satisfaction of the presale requirement prior to VA guaranty of the first unit loan. When a declarant can demonstrate that a lower percentage would be justified, the Secretary, on an individual case basis, may approve a presale requirement of less than 70 percent. Reduction of the 70 percent presale requirement will be considered when:
(i) Strong initial sales demonstrate a ready market, or
(ii) The declarant will provide cash assets or acceptable bonds for payment of full common area assessments to the owners' association until such assessments are assumed by unit purchasers, or
(iii) Subsequent phases of an overall development are being undertaken in a proven market area, or
(iv) Previous experience in similar projects in the same market area indicates strong market acceptance, or
(v) The development is in a market area that has repeatedly indicated acceptance of such projects.
(2)
Multiphase—proposed or existing declarant in control.
The requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall apply to each individual phase of a multiphase development, taking into consideration that each individual phase must be capable of self-support in the event that the developer does not complete all planned phases.
(d)
Warranty.
Except in condominium conversion projects, each CRV (Certificate of Reasonable Value) issued by the Secretary relating to a proposed or existing not previously occupied dwelling unit in a condominium project shall be subject to the express condition that the builder, seller, or the real party in interest in the transaction shall deliver to the veteran purchasing the dwelling unit with the aid of a guaranteed or insured loan a warranty against defects for the unit and common elements. The unit shall be warranted for 1 year from the date of settlement or the date of occupancy (whichever first occurs). The common elements shall be warranted for 2 years from the date each of the common elements is completed and available for use by the unit owners, or 2 years from the date the first unit is conveyed to a unit owner other than the declarant, whichever is later, in the particular phase of the condominium containing the common element. For these purposes, defects shall be those items reasonably requiring the repair, renovation, restoration, or replacement of any of the components constituting the unit or common elements. Items of maintenance relating to the unit or common elements are not covered by the warranty. No certificate of guaranty or insurance credit shall be issued unless a copy of such warranty, duly receipted by the purchaser, is submitted with the loan papers.
(e)
Ownership and operation of offsite facilities
—(1)
Title requirements.
Evidence must be presented that the offsite facility owned by an owners' association with mandatory membership by condominium unit owners or condominium unit owners' associations has been completed and conveyed free of encumbrances by the declarant for the benefit of the unit owners with title insured by an owner's title policy or other acceptable title evidence. Offsite facilities conveyed to a nonprofit corporation are the preferred method of offsite facilities ownership; however, the Secretary will consider other forms of ownership on an individual case basis.
(2)
Mandatory membership.
The declaration of the condominium (each condominium in a series development) and the legal documentation of the corporation or association which owns the offsite facility must provide the following:
(i) The owner of a condominium unit is automatically a member of the offsite facility corporation or association and that upon the sale of the unit, membership is transferred automatically to the new owner/purchaser. It is
also acceptable if each condominium owners' association (in lieu of each individual unit owner) is automatically a member of the offsite facility corporation or association coupled with use rights for each of the unit owners or residents. If membership in an offsite owners' association is voluntary, no credit in the CRV valuation may be given for such offsite amenities.
(ii) Each member of the offsite facility corporation or association must be entitled to a representative vote at meetings of the offsite facility corporation or association. If the individual condominium owners' association is a member of the offsite facility corporation or association, each condominium owners' association must be entitled to a representative vote at meetings of the offsite facility corporation or association.
(iii) Each member must agree by acceptance of the unit deed to pay a share of the expenses of the offsite facility corporation or association as assessed by the corporation or association for upkeep, insurance, reserve fund for replacements, maintenance and operation of the offsite facility. The share of said expenses shall be determined equitably. Failure to pay such assessment must result in a lien against the individual unit in the same manner as unpaid assessments by the association of owners of the condominium. If each condominium owners' association is a member of the offsite facility in lieu of individual unit owners, failure of the condominium owners' association to pay its equitable assessment to the offsite facility must result in an enforceable lien.
(3)
Declarant payment of offsite facility in a series project.
Until the declarant has completed all of the intended condominium phases in a total condominium development or established each condominium regime by filing a separate declaration in a series development, the balance of the total sum of the expenses of the offsite facility not covered by the assessment against the unit owners should be assessed against and be payable by the declarant commencing on the first day of the first month after the first unit is conveyed to a homeowner in the first phase. If this balance is not paid, it must become a lien against those parcels of land in the development area which are owned by the declarant. The collection of such debt and enforcement of such lien may be by foreclosure or such other remedies afforded the corporation or association under local law.
(f)
Professional management.
Many condominiums are small enough and their common areas so minimal that professional management is not necessary. VA does not have a requirement for professional management of condominiums. The powers given to the owners' association by the declaration and bylaws are fundamentally for “use control” and maintenance of the undivided interest all of the owners have in the common areas. These powers normally include management which may, if desired, be delegated to a professional manager. However, if the board of directors wants professional management, the management agreement must be terminable for cause upon 30 days' notice, and run for a reasonable period of from 1 to 3 years and be renewable for consent of the association and the management. (Management contracts negotiated by the declarant should not exceed 2 years.)
(g)
Commercial areas.
With respect to existing and proposed condominiums, commercial areas within condominium developments are acceptable, but such interests will be considered in value.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0448)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(2), 3710(a)(6))
[73 FR 6310, Feb. 1, 2008. Redesignated at 75 FR 33705, June 15, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 34319, June 16, 2015]
§ 36.4367
Requirement of construction warranty.
Each certificate of reasonable value issued by the Secretary relating to a proposed or newly constructed dwelling unit, except those covering one-family residential units in condominium housing developments or projects within the purview of §§ 36.4360 through 36.4365, shall be subject to the express condition that the builder, seller, or the real party in interest in the transaction shall deliver to the veteran constructing or purchasing such dwelling
with the aid of a guaranteed or insured loan a warranty, in the form prescribed by the Secretary, that the property has been completed in substantial conformity with the plans and specifications upon which the Secretary based the valuation of the property, including any modifications thereof, or changes or variations therein, approved in writing by the Secretary, and no certificate of guaranty or insurance credit shall be issued unless a copy of such warranty duly receipted by the purchaser is submitted with the loan papers.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1), 3705)
[73 FR 6310, Feb. 1, 2008. Redesignated at 75 FR 33705, June 15, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 34319, June 16, 2015]
§ 36.4368
Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity in housing certification requirements.
(a) Any request for a master certificate of reasonable value on proposed or existing construction, and any request for appraisal of individual existing housing not previously occupied, which is received on or after November 21, 1962, will not be assigned for appraisal prior to receipt of a certification from the builder, sponsor or other seller, in the form prescribed by the Secretary, that neither it nor anyone authorized to act for it will decline to sell any property included in such request to a prospective purchaser because of his or her race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
(b) On requests for appraisal of individual proposed construction received on or after November 21, 1962, the prescribed nondiscrimination certification will be required if the builder is to sell the veteran the lot on which the dwelling is to be constructed, but will not be required if:
(1) The veteran owns the lot; or
(2) The lot is being acquired by the veteran from a seller other than the builder and there is no identity of interest between the builder and the seller of the lot.
(c) Each builder, sponsor or other seller requesting approval of site and subdivision planning shall be required to furnish a certification, in the form prescribed by the Secretary, that neither it nor anyone authorized to act for it will decline to sell any property included in such request to a prospective purchaser because of his or her race, color, religion, sex or national origin. Site and subdivision analysis will not be commenced by the Department of Veterans Affairs prior to receipt of such certification.
(d) No commitment shall be issued and no loan shall be guaranteed or insured under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37 unless the veteran certifies, in such form as the Secretary shall prescribe, that
(1) Neither he/she, nor anyone authorized to act for him/her, will refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny the dwelling or property covered by this loan to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin;
(2) He/she recognizes that any restrictive covenant on the property relating to race, color, religion, sex or national origin is illegal and void and any such covenant is specifically disclaimed; and
(3) He/she understands that civil action for preventive relief may be brought by the Attorney General of the United States in any appropriate U.S. District Court against any person responsible for a violation of the applicable law.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
§ 36.4369
Correction of structural defects.
(a) The purpose of this section is to specify the types of assistance that the Secretary may render pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3727 to an eligible borrower who has been unable to secure satisfactory correction of structural defects in a dwelling encumbered by a mortgage securing a guaranteed, insured or direct loan, and the terms and conditions under which such assistance will be rendered.
(b) A written application for assistance in the correction of structural defects shall be filed by a borrower under a guaranteed, insured or direct loan with the Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs office having loan jurisdiction over the area in which the dwelling is located. The application must be filed not later than 4 years after the date on which the first direct,
guaranteed or insured mortgage loan on the dwelling was made, guaranteed or insured by the Secretary. A borrower under a direct, guaranteed or insured mortgage loan on the same dwelling which was made, guaranteed or insured subsequent to the first such loan shall be entitled to file an application if it is filed not later than 4 years after the date on which such first loan was made, guaranteed or insured by the Secretary.
(c) An applicant for assistance under this section must establish that:
(1) The applicant is the owner of a one- to four-family dwelling which was inspected during construction by the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Federal Housing Administration.
(2) The applicant is an original veteran-borrower on an outstanding guaranteed, insured or direct loan secured by a mortgage on such dwelling which was made, guaranteed or insured on or after May 8, 1968. The Secretary may, however, recognize an applicant who is not the original veteran-borrower but who contracted to assume such borrower's personal obligation thereunder, if the Secretary determines that such recognition would be in the best interests of the Government in the particular case.
(3) There exists in such dwelling a structural defect, not the result of fire, earthquake, flood, windstorm, or waste, which seriously affects the livability of the dwelling.
(4) The applicant has made reasonable efforts to obtain correction of such structural defect by the builder, seller, or other person or firm responsible for the construction of the dwelling.
(d) In those instances in which the Secretary determines that assistance under this section is appropriate and necessary the Secretary may take any of the following actions:
(1) Pay such amount as is reasonably necessary to correct the defect, or
(2) Pay the claim of the borrower for reimbursement of the borrower's expenses for correcting or obtaining correction of the defect, or
(3) Acquire title to the property upon terms acceptable to the borrower and the holder of the guaranteed or insured loan.
(e) To the extent of any expenditure made by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section the Secretary shall be subrogated to any legal rights the borrower or applicant described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section may have against the builder, seller, or other persons arising out of the structural defect or defects.
(f) The borrower shall not be entitled, as a matter of right, to receive the assistance in the correction of structural defects provided in this section. Any determination made by the Secretary in connection with a borrower's application for assistance shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to judicial or other review. Authority to act for the Secretary under this section is delegated to the Under Secretary for Benefits.
(g) For the purpose of this section, the term “structural defects seriously affecting livability” shall in no event be deemed to include—
(1) Defects of any nature in a dwelling in respect to which the applicant for assistance under this section was the builder or general contractor, or
(2) Structural features, improvements, amenities, or equipment which were not taken into account in the Secretary's determination of reasonable value.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1), 3727)
§ 36.4370
Advertising and solicitation requirements.
Any advertisement or solicitation in any form (e.g., written, electronic, oral) from a private lender concerning housing loans to be guaranteed or insured by the Secretary:
(a) Must not include information falsely stating or implying that it was issued by or at the direction of VA or any other department or agency of the United States, and
(b) Must not include information falsely stating or implying that the lender has an exclusive right to make loans guaranteed or insured by VA.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
§ 36.4375
Insured loan and insurance account.
(a) Loans otherwise eligible may be insured when purchased by a lender eligible under 38 U.S.C. 3703(a) if the purchaser (lender) submits with the loan report evidence of an agreement, general or special, made prior to the closing of the loan, to purchase such loan subject to its being insured.
(b) A current account shall be maintained in the name of each insured lender or purchaser. The account shall be credited with the appropriate amounts available for the payment of losses on insured loans made or purchased. The account shall be debited with appropriate amounts on account of transfers, purchases under § 36.4320, or payment of losses. The Secretary may on 6 months' notice close any lender's insurance account. Such account after expiration of the 6-month period shall be available only as to loans embraced therein.
(c) Amounts received or recovered by the Secretary or the holder with respect to a loan after payment of an insured claim thereon will not restore any amount to the holder's insurance account.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(a)(2))
[73 FR 6310, Feb. 1, 2008. Redesignated at 75 FR 33705, June 15, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 34319, June 16, 2015]
§ 36.4377
Transfer of insured loans.
(a) In cases involving the transfer from one insured financial institution to another insured institution of loans which are transferred without recourse, guaranty, or repurchase agreement, if no payment on any loan included in the transfer is past due more than one calendar month at the time of transfer there shall be transferred from the insurance account of the transferor to the insurance account of the transferee an amount equal to the original percentage credited to the insurance account in respect to each loan being transferred applied to the unpaid balance of such loans, or to the purchase price, whichever is the lesser.
(b) Transfers between insurance accounts in a manner or under conditions not provided in paragraph (a) of this section must have the prior approval of the Secretary.
(c) Where loans are transferred with recourse or under a guaranty or repurchase agreement no insurance credit will be transferred or insurance account affected and no reports will be required.
(d) In all cases of transfer of loans from one insured financial institution to another insured institution, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, a report on a prescribed form executed by the parties and showing their agreement with regard to the transfer of insurance credits shall be made to the Secretary.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
§ 36.4378
Debits and credits to insurance account under § 36.4320.
In the event that an insured loan is transferred under the provisions of § 36.4320, there shall be charged to the insurance account of the transferor a sum equal to the amount paid transferor on account of the indebtedness less the current market value of the property transferred as security therefor as determined by an appraiser designated by the Secretary, or the amount chargeable to such insurance account in the event of a transfer under § 36.4377, whichever sum is the greater. The credit to the insurance account of the transferee will be computed in accordance with § 36.4377(a).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
[73 FR 6310, Feb. 1, 2008. Redesignated at 75 FR 33705, June 15, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 34319, June 16, 2015]
§ 36.4379
Payment of insurance.
(a) Upon the continuance of a default for a period of three months, the holder may proceed to establish the net loss, after giving the notices prescribed in §§ 36.4317 and 36.4350 if security is available. The net loss shall be reported to the Secretary with proper claim, whereupon the holder shall be entitled to payment of the claim within the amount then available for such payment under the payee's related insurance account. Subject to the provisions of the paragraph (b) of this section and to § 36.4375(b) a supplemental claim for any balance of an insurance loss may
be filed at any time within 5 years after the date of the original claim.
(b) The basis of the claim for an insured loss shall consist in the unrealized principal or the amount paid for the obligation, if less, plus unrealized interest to the date of claim or the date of sale whichever is earlier, and those expenses, if any, allowable under § 36.4314, but subject to proper credits because of payments, set-off, proceeds of security or otherwise, provided that if there is no liquidation of security the claim shall not include an accrual of interest for a period in excess of 6 months from the date of the first uncured default.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
[73 FR 6310, Feb. 1, 2008. Redesignated at 75 FR 33705, June 15, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 34319, June 16, 2015]
§ 36.4380
Reports of insured institutions.
An insured financial institution shall make such reports respecting its insurance accounts as the Secretary may from time to time require, not more frequently than semiannually.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
§ 36.4390
Purpose.
Sections 36.4390 through 36.4393 are promulgated to achieve the aims of the applicable provisions of Executive Orders 11246 and 11375 and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor with respect to federally assisted construction contracts.
[73 FR 6310, Feb. 1, 2008. Redesignated at 75 FR 33705, June 15, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 34319, June 16, 2015]
§ 36.4391
Applicability.
(a) For the purposes of the home loan guaranty and insurance and direct loan programs of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the term “applicant for Federal assistance” or “applicant” in Part III of Executive Order 11246, shall mean the builder, sponsor or developer of land to be improved by such builder, sponsor or developer for the purpose of constructing housing thereon for sale to eligible veterans with financing which is to be guaranteed or insured or made under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, or the builder, sponsor or developer of housing to be constructed for sale to eligible veterans with financing which is to be guaranteed or insured or made under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. chapter 37.
(b) The provisions of Executive Orders 11246 and 11375 and the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor are applicable to:
(1) Each Master Certificate of Reasonable Value or extension or modification thereof relating to proposed construction issued on or after July 22, 1963;
(2) Each individual Certificate of Reasonable Value or extension or modification thereof relating to proposed construction issued on or after July 22, 1963, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section;
(3) Each Special Conditions Letter or modification thereof issued on or after July 22, 1963, in respect to site approval of land to be improved by a builder, sponsor or developer for the construction of housing thereon; and
(4) Each direct loan fund reservation commitment or extension thereof issued to builders on or after July 22, 1963.
(c) The provisions of Executive Orders 11246 and 11375 and the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor are not applicable to:
(1) Grants under chapter 21, title 38, U.S.C.;
(2) Individual Certificates of Reasonable Value issued on or after July 22, 1963, if:
(i) The certificate relates to existing properties, either previously occupied or unoccupied; or
(ii) The certificate relates to proposed construction and—
(A) A veteran was named in the request for appraisal, or
(B) A veteran contracted for the construction or purchase of the home prior to issuance of the certificate, or
(C) The property was listed in the Schedule of Reasonable Values on an outstanding Master Certificate of Reasonable Value issued prior to July 22, 1963;
(3) Any contract or subcontract for construction work not exceeding $10,000; and
(4) Any other contract or subcontract which is exempted or excepted by the regulations of the Secretary of Labor.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
§ 36.4392
Certification requirements.
In any case in which §§ 36.4390 through 36.4393 are applicable, as set forth in § 36.4391, no action will be taken by the Department of Veterans Affairs on any request for appraisal relating to proposed construction, site approval of land to be improved by a builder, sponsor or developer for the construction of housing thereon, or for a direct loan fund reservation commitment unless the builder, sponsor or developer has furnished the Department of Veterans Affairs a signed certification in form as follows:
To induce the Department of Veterans Affairs to act on any request submitted by or on behalf of the undersigned for site approval of land to be improved for the construction of housing thereon to be financed with loans guaranteed, insured or made by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for establishment by the Department of Veterans Affairs of reasonable value relating to proposed construction or for direct loan fund reservation commitments, the undersigned hereby agrees that it will incorporate or cause to be incorporated into any contract for construction work or modification thereof, as defined in the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor relating to the land or housing included in its request to the Department of Veterans Affairs the following equal opportunity clause:
During the performance of this contract the contractor agrees as follows:
(1) The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to the following: Employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided setting forth the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause.
(2) The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex or national origin.
(3) The contractor will send to each labor union or representative of workers with which he has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice to be provided advising the said labor union or workers' representative of the contractor's commitments under section 202 of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment.
(4) The contractor will comply with all provisions of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and of the rules, regulations and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor.
(5) The contractor will furnish all information and reports required by Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and by the rules, regulations and orders of the Secretary of Labor, or pursuant thereto, and will permit access to his books, records and accounts by the administering agency and the Secretary of Labor for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with such rules, regulations and orders.
(6) In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with the nondiscrimination clauses of this contract or with any of the said rules, regulations or orders, this contract may be canceled, terminated or suspended in whole or in part and the contractor may be declared ineligible for further Government contracts or federally assisted construction contracts in accordance with procedures authorized in Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and such other sanctions may be imposed and remedies invoked as provided in Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, or by rule, regulation or order of the Secretary of Labor, or as otherwise provided by law.
(7) The contractor will include the provisions of paragraphs (1) through (7) in every subcontract or purchase order unless exempted by rules, regulations or orders of the Secretary of Labor issued pursuant to section 204 of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, so that such provisions will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. The contractor will take such action with respect to any subcontract or purchase order as the administering agency may direct as a means of enforcing such provisions, including sanctions for noncompliance: Provided, however, That in the event a contractor becomes involved in, or is threatened with, litigation with a subcontractor or vendor as a result of such direction by the agency, the contractor may request the United States to enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the United States.
Except in special cases and in subcontracts for the performance of construction work at
the site of construction, the clause is not required to be inserted in subcontracts below the second tier. Subcontracts may incorporate by reference the equal opportunity clause.
The undersigned further agrees that it will be bound by the above equal opportunity clause in any federally assisted construction work which it performs itself other than through the permanent work force directly employed by an agency of Government.
The undersigned agrees that it will cooperate actively with the administering agency and the Secretary of Labor in obtaining the compliance of contractors and subcontractors with the equal opportunity clause and the rules, regulations and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor, that it will furnish the administering agency and the Secretary of Labor such information as they may require for the supervision of such compliance, and that it will otherwise assist the administering agency in the discharge of the agency's primary responsibility for securing compliance. The undersigned further agrees that it will refrain from entering into any contract or contract modification subject to Executive Order 11246 with a contractor debarred from, or who has not demonstrated eligibility for, Government contracts and federally assisted construction contracts pursuant to Part II, Subpart D of Executive Order 11246 and will carry out such sanctions and penalties for violation of the equal opportunity clause as may be imposed upon the contractors and subcontractors by the administering agency or the Secretary of Labor pursuant to Part II, Subpart D of Executive Order 11246.
In addition, the undersigned agrees that if it fails or refuses to comply with these undertakings such failure or refusal shall be a proper basis for cancellation by the Department of Veterans Affairs of any outstanding master certificates of reasonable value or individual certificates of reasonable value relating to proposed construction, except in respect to cases in which an eligible veteran has contracted to purchase a property included on such certificates, and for the rejection of future requests submitted by the undersigned or on his or her behalf for site approval, appraisal services, and direct loan fund reservation commitments until satisfactory assurance of future compliance has been received from the undersigned, and for referral of the case to the Department of Justice for appropriate legal proceedings.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
[73 FR 6310, Feb. 1, 2008. Redesignated at 75 FR 33705, June 15, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 34319, June 16, 2015]
§ 36.4393
Complaint and hearing procedure.
(a) Upon receipt of a written complaint signed by the complainant to the effect that any person, firm or entity has violated the undertakings referred to in § 36.4392, such person, firm or other entity shall be invited to discuss the matter in an informal hearing with the Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs regional office or center.
(b) If the existence of a violation is denied by the person, firm or other entity against which a complaint has been made, the Director or designee shall conduct such inquiries and hearings as may be deemed appropriate for the purpose of ascertaining the facts.
(c) If it is found that the person, firm or other entity against which a complaint has been made has not violated the undertakings referred to in § 36.4392, the parties shall be so notified.
(d) If it is found that there has been a violation of the undertakings referred to in § 36.4392, the person, firm or other entity in violation shall be requested to attend a conference for the purpose of discussing the matter. Failure or refusal to attend such a conference shall be proper basis for the application of sanctions.
(e) The conference arranged for discussing a violation shall be conducted in an informal manner and shall have as its primary objective the elimination of the violation. If the violation is eliminated and satisfactory assurances are received that the person, firm or other entity in violation will comply with the undertakings pursuant to § 36.4392 in the future, the parties concerned shall be so notified.
(f) Failure or refusal to comply and give satisfactory assurances of future compliance with the equal employment opportunity requirements shall be proper basis for applying sanctions. The sanctions shall be applied in accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 11246 as amended and the regulations of the Secretary of Labor.
(g) Upon written application, a complainant or a person, firm or other entity against which a complaint has been filed may apply to the Under Secretary for Benefits for a review of the
action taken by a Director. Upon receiving such application, the Under Secretary for Benefits may designate a representative or representatives to conduct an informal hearing and to make a report of findings. The Under Secretary for Benefits may, after a review of such report, modify or reverse an action taken by a Director.
(h) Reinstatement of restricted persons, firms or other entities shall be within the discretion of the Under Secretary for Benefits and under such terms as the Under Secretary for Benefits may prescribe.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1))
[73 FR 6310, Feb. 1, 2008. Redesignated at 75 FR 33705, June 15, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 34319, June 16, 2015]

# Subpart C—Assistance to Eligible Individuals in Acquiring Specially Adapted Housing

# Source:
75 FR 56876, Sept. 17, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 36.4400
Authority.
The Secretary's authority to provide assistance in acquiring specially adapted housing is set forth in 38 U.S.C. chapter 21.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101(d))
§ 36.4401
Definitions.
The following definitions of terms apply to this subpart:
2101(a) grant:
A grant authorized under 38 U.S.C. 2101(a).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
2101(b) grant:
A grant authorized under 38 U.S.C. 2101(b).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Adapt:
To make a housing unit suitable to, or fit for, the residential living needs of an eligible individual.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Aggregate amount of assistance available:
The amounts specified at 38 U.S.C. 2102(d) as adjusted in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2102(e).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101, 2102)
Beneficial property interest:
An interest deemed by the Secretary as one that provides (or will provide) an eligible individual a meaningful right to occupy a housing unit as a residence.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Braces:
Orthopedic appliances, including prosthetic devices, used for support.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Construction-related cost:
An expense incurred for the purpose of or directly related to building, modifying, or adapting a housing unit by using specially adapted housing grant proceeds.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Disability:
A compensable physical impairment, as determined by a Department of Veterans Affairs rating decision, that meets the criteria of 38 U.S.C. 2101(a)(2) or (b)(2).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Eligible individual:
For specially adapted housing purposes, a person who has served or is currently serving in the active military, naval, or air service, and who has been determined by the Secretary to be eligible for benefits pursuant to 38 U.S.C. chapter 21.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101, 2101A)
Eligible individual's family:
Persons related to an eligible individual by blood, marriage, or adoption.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101, 2102A)
Housing unit:
Any residential unit, including all necessary land, improvements, and appurtenances, together with such movable or special fixtures and necessary adaptations as are authorized by 38 U.S.C. 1717 and 2101. For the purposes of this definition,
movable facilities
is defined as such exercising equipment and other aids as may be allowed or required by the Chief Medical Director or designee;
necessary land
is defined as any plot of land the cost and area of which are not disproportionate to the type of improvements thereon and which is in keeping with the locality; and
special fixtures and necessary adaptations
is defined as construction
features which are specially designed to overcome the physical limitations of the individual beneficiary and which are allowed or required by the Chief Medical Director or designee as necessary by nature of the qualifying disability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1717, 2101)
Ownership interest:
An undivided property interest that the Secretary determines is a satisfactory:
(1) Fee simple estate;
(2) Life estate;
(3) Functional equivalent of a life estate, such as that created by a valid trust, a long-term lease, or a land installment contract that will convert to a fee simple estate upon satisfaction of the contract's terms and conditions;
(4) Ownership of stock or membership in a cooperative housing corporation entitling the eligible individual to occupy for dwelling purposes a single family residential unit in a development, project, or structure owned or leased by such corporation;
(5) Lease, under the terms of a valid and enforceable Memorandum of Understanding between a tribal organization and the Secretary; or
(6) Beneficial property interest in a housing unit located outside the United States.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101, 3762)
Preconstruction cost:
An authorized expense incurred by an eligible individual in anticipation of receiving final approval for a specially adapted housing grant.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Reimburse:
To pay specially adapted housing grant funds directly to an eligible individual (or an eligible individual's estate) for preconstruction costs or for construction-related costs.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Reside:
To occupy (including seasonal occupancy) as one's residence.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Secretary:
The Secretary of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs or any employee or agent authorized in § 36.4409 of this part to act on behalf of the Secretary.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Specially adapted housing grant:
A 2101(a) grant, 2101(b) grant, or TRA grant made to an eligible individual in accordance with the requirements of 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 and this subpart.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101)
Temporary residence adaptations grant or TRA grant:
A grant, the specific requirements and amount of which are outlined in 38 U.S.C. 2102A and 2102(d).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101, 2102A)
§ 36.4402
Grant types.
(a)
2101(a) grant.
The 2101(a) grant provides monetary assistance for the purpose of acquiring specially adapted housing pursuant to one of the following plans:
(1) Where an eligible individual elects to construct a dwelling on land to be acquired by the eligible individual, the Secretary will pay, up to the aggregate amount of assistance available for 2101(a) grants, not more than 50 percent of the eligible individual's total costs for acquiring the land and constructing the dwelling.
(2) Where an eligible individual elects to construct a dwelling on land already owned by the eligible individual, the Secretary will pay, up to the aggregate amount of assistance available for 2101(a) grants, not more than the lesser of:
(i) 50 percent of the eligible individual's costs for the land and the construction of the dwelling, or
(ii) 50 percent of the eligible individual's costs for the dwelling, plus the full amount of the unpaid balance, if any, of the cost to the individual of the necessary land.
(3) Where an eligible individual elects to adapt a housing unit already owned by the eligible individual, to conform to the requirements of the eligible individual's disability, the Secretary will pay, up to the aggregate amount of assistance available for 2101(a) grants, the greater of:
(i) The eligible individual's costs for making such adaptation(s), or
(ii) 50 percent of the eligible individual's costs for making such adaptation(s), plus the lesser of:
(A) 50 percent of the eligible individual's costs for acquiring the housing unit, or
(B) The full amount of the unpaid balance, if any, of the cost to the individual of the housing unit.
(4) Where an eligible individual has already acquired a suitably adapted housing unit, the Secretary will pay, up to the aggregate amount of assistance available for 2101(a) grants, the lesser of:
(i) 50 percent of the eligible individual's cost of acquiring such housing unit, or
(ii) The full amount of the unpaid balance, if any, of the cost to the individual of the housing unit.
(b)
2101(b) grant.
(1) The 2101(b) grant provides monetary assistance for the purpose of acquiring specially adapted housing pursuant to one of the following plans:
(i) Where an eligible individual elects to construct a dwelling on land to be acquired by the eligible individual or a member of the eligible individual's family;
(ii) Where an eligible individual elects to construct a dwelling on land already owned by the eligible individual or a member of the eligible individual's family;
(iii) Where an eligible individual elects to adapt a housing unit already owned by the eligible individual or a member of the eligible individual's family; or
(iv) Where an eligible individual elects to purchase a housing unit that is already adapted to the requirements of the eligible individual's disability.
(2) Regardless of the plan chosen pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Secretary will pay the lesser of:
(i) The actual cost, or, in the case of an eligible individual acquiring a housing unit already adapted with special features, the fair market value, of the adaptations determined by the Secretary to be reasonably necessary, or
(ii) The aggregate amount of assistance available for 2101(b) grants.
(c)
TRA grant.
The TRA grant provides monetary assistance for the purpose of adapting a housing unit owned by a member of the eligible individual's family, in which the eligible individual intends to reside temporarily. The Secretary will pay, up to the amounts specified at 38 U.S.C. 2102A(b) for TRA grants, the actual cost of the adaptations.
(d)
Duplication of benefits.
(1) If an individual is determined eligible for a 2101(a) grant, he or she may not subsequently receive a 2101(b) grant.
(2) If an individual is determined eligible for a 2101(b) grant, and becomes eligible for a 2101(a) grant, he or she may receive 2101(a) grants and TRA grants up to the aggregate amount of assistance available for 2101(a) grants. However, any 2101(b) or TRA grants received by the individual before he or she was determined eligible for the 2101(a) grant will count towards the six grant limit in § 36.4403.
(3) If the Secretary has provided assistance to an eligible individual under 38 U.S.C. 1717, the Secretary will not provide assistance under this subpart that would result in duplicate payments for the same adaptations. However, nothing in this subpart prohibits an eligible individual from utilizing the assistance authorized under 38 U.S.C. 1717 and 38 U.S.C. chapter 21 simultaneously, provided that no duplicate payments result.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2102, 2102A, 2104)
[75 FR 56876, Sept. 17, 2010, as amended at 86 FR 56216, Oct. 8, 2021]
§ 36.4403
Subsequent use.
An eligible individual may receive up to six grants of assistance under 38 U.S.C. chapter 21, subject to the following limitations:
(a) The aggregate amount of assistance available to an eligible individual for 2101(a) grant and TRA grant usage will be limited to the aggregate amount of assistance available for 2101(a) grants;
(b) The aggregate amount of assistance available to an eligible individual for 2101(b) grant and TRA grant usage will be limited to the aggregate amount of assistance available for 2101(b) grants;
(c) The TRA grant may only be obtained once and will be counted as one of the six grant usages; and
(d) Funds from subsequent 2101(a) grant or 2101(b) grant usages may only pay for reimbursing specially adapted housing-related costs incurred on or after June 15, 2006 or the date on which the eligible individual is conditionally approved for subsequent assistance, whichever is later.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0132)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2102, 2102A)
[75 FR 56876, Sept. 17, 2010, as amended at 86 FR 56216, Oct. 8, 2021]
§ 36.4404
Eligibility for assistance.
(a)
Disability requirements.
(1) The 2101(a) grant is available to individuals with a service-connected disability who have been rated as being entitled to compensation under 38 U.S.C. chapter 11 for any of the following conditions:
(i) A permanent and total disability due to the loss, or loss of use, of both lower extremities so as to preclude locomotion without the aid of braces, crutches, canes, or a wheelchair;
(ii) A permanent disability due to blindness in both eyes having central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye with the use of a standard correcting lens. For the purposes of this paragraph (a)(1)(ii), an eye with a limitation in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees shall be considered as having a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less;
(iii) A permanent and total disability due to the loss or loss of use of one lower extremity, together with—
(A) Residuals of organic disease or injury; or
(B) The loss or loss of use of one upper extremity, which so affect the functions of balance or propulsion as to preclude locomotion without the aid of braces, crutches, canes, or a wheelchair;
(iv) A permanent and total disability due to the loss, or loss of use, of both upper extremities so as to preclude use of the arms at or above the elbows; or
(v) Any other permanent and total disability identified as eligible for assistance under 38 U.S.C. 2101(a).
(2) The 2101(b) grant is available to individuals with permanent and total service-connected disability who have been rated as being entitled to compensation under 38 U.S.C. chapter 11 for any of the following conditions:
(i) Anatomical loss, or loss of use, of both hands; or
(ii) Any other injury identified as eligible for assistance under 38 U.S.C. 2101(b).
(3) The TRA grant is available to individuals with permanent and total service-connected disability who have been rated as being entitled to compensation under 38 U.S.C. chapter 11 for any of the conditions described under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for the 2101(a) grant or paragraph (a)(2) of this section for the 2101(b) grant.
(b)
Feasibility and suitability requirements.
(1) In order for an individual to be eligible for 2101(a) grant assistance, the Secretary must determine that:
(i) It is medically feasible for the individual to reside outside of an institutional setting;
(ii) It is medically feasible for the individual to reside in the proposed housing unit and in the proposed locality;
(iii) The nature and condition of the proposed housing unit are suitable for the individual's residential living needs; and
(iv) The cost of the proposed housing unit bears a proper relation to the individual's present and anticipated income and expenses.
(2) In order for an individual to be eligible for 2101(b) grant assistance, the Secretary must determine that:
(i) The individual is residing in and reasonably intends to continue residing in a housing unit owned by the individual or a member of the individual's family; or
(ii) If the individual's housing unit is to be constructed or purchased, the individual will be residing in and reasonably intends to continue residing in a housing unit owned by the individual or a member of the individual's family.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101, 2102, 2102A)
[75 FR 56876, Sept. 17, 2010, as amended at 86 FR 56216, Oct. 8, 2021]
§ 36.4405
Grant approval.
(a)
Conditional approval.
(1) The Secretary may provide written notification to an eligible individual of conditional approval of a specially adapted housing grant if the Secretary has determined that:
(i) Disability requirements have been satisfied pursuant to § 36.4404(a);
(ii) Feasibility and suitability requirements have been satisfied pursuant to § 36.4404(b); and
(iii) The eligible individual has not exceeded the usage or dollar limitations prescribed by §§ 36.4402(d) and 36.4403.
(2) Once conditional approval has been granted, the Secretary may authorize, in writing, an eligible individual to incur certain preconstruction costs pursuant to § 36.4406.
(b)
Final approval.
In order for an individual to obtain final approval for a specially adapted housing grant, the Secretary must determine that the following property requirements are met:
(1)
Proposed adaptations.
The plans and specifications of the proposed adaptations demonstrate compliance with minimum property and design requirements of the specially adapted housing program.
(2)
Ownership.
(i) In the case of 2101(a) grants, the eligible individual must have, or provide satisfactory evidence that he or she will acquire, an ownership interest in the housing unit.
(ii) In the case of 2101(b) grants, the eligible individual or a member of the eligible individual's family must have, or provide satisfactory evidence that he or she will acquire, an ownership interest in the housing unit.
(iii) In the case of TRA grants:
(A) A member of the eligible individual's family must have, or provide satisfactory evidence that he or she will acquire, an ownership interest in the housing unit, and
(B) The eligible individual and the member of the eligible individual's family who has or acquires an ownership interest in the housing unit must sign a certification as to the likelihood of the eligible individual's temporary occupancy of such residence.
(iv) If the ownership interest in the housing unit is or will be vested in the eligible individual and another person, the Secretary will not for that reason reduce by percentage of ownership the amount of a specially adapted housing grant. However, to meet the ownership requirement for final approval of a specially adapted housing grant, the eligible individual's ownership interest must be of sufficient quantum and quality, as determined by the Secretary, to ensure the eligible individual's quiet enjoyment of the property.
(3)
Certifications.
The eligible individual must certify, in such form as the Secretary will prescribe, that:
(i) Neither the eligible individual, nor anyone authorized to act for the eligible individual, will refuse to sell or rent, after receiving a bona fide offer, or refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny the housing unit acquired by this benefit, to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, disability, or national origin;
(ii) The eligible individual, and anyone authorized to act for the eligible individual, recognizes that any restrictive covenant on the housing unit relating to race, color, religion, sex, familial status, disability, or national origin is illegal and void, and any such covenant is specifically disclaimed; and
(iii) The eligible individual, and anyone authorized to act for the eligible individual, understands that civil action for preventative relief may be brought by the Attorney General of the United States in any appropriate U.S. District Court against any person responsible for a violation of the applicable law.
(4)
Flood insurance.
The eligible individual's housing unit, if it is or becomes located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as having special flood hazards and in which flood insurance has been made available under the National Flood Insurance Act, as amended, must be covered by flood insurance. The amount of flood insurance must be at least equal to the lesser of the full insurable value of the housing unit or the maximum limit of coverage available for the particular type of housing unit under the National Flood Insurance Act, as amended. The Secretary will not approve any financial assistance for the acquisition or construction of a
housing unit located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as having special flood hazards unless the community in which such area is situated is then participating in the National Flood Insurance Program
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, chapter 21, 42 U.S.C. 4012a, 4106(a))
(5)
Geographical limits.
Any real property purchased, constructed, or adapted with the proceeds of a specially adapted housing grant must be located:
(i) Within the United States, which, for purposes of 38 U.S.C. chapter 21, includes the several States, Territories, and possessions, including the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands; or,
(ii) If outside the United States, in a country or political subdivision which allows individuals to have or acquire a beneficial property interest, and in which the Secretary, in his or her discretion, has determined that it is reasonably practicable for the Secretary to provide assistance in acquiring specially adapted housing.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control numbers 2900-0031, 2900-0132, and 2900-0300)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2101, 2101A, 2102A)
§ 36.4406
Reimbursement of costs and disbursement of grant funds.
(a) After providing conditional approval of a specially adapted housing grant for an eligible individual pursuant to § 36.4405, the Secretary may authorize the incurrence, prior to obtaining final specially adapted housing grant approval, of preconstruction costs of the types and subject to the limits specified in this paragraph.
(1) Preconstruction costs to be incurred may not exceed 20 percent of the eligible individual's aggregate amount of assistance available, unless the individual is authorized by the Secretary in writing to incur specific preconstruction costs in excess of this 20 percent limitation. Preconstruction costs may include the following items:
(i) Architectural services employed for preparation of building plans and specifications.
(ii) Land surveys.
(iii) Attorneys' and other legal fees.
(iv) Other costs or fees necessary to plan for specially adapted housing grant use, as determined by the Secretary.
(2) If the Secretary authorizes final approval, the Secretary will pay out of the specially adapted housing grant the preconstruction costs that the Secretary authorized in advance. If the specially adapted housing grant process is terminated prior to final approval, preconstruction costs incurred that the Secretary authorized in advance will be reimbursed to the eligible individual, or the eligible individual's estate pursuant to paragraph(c) of this section, but will be deducted from the aggregate amount of assistance available and the reimbursement will constitute one of the six permitted grant usages (see § 36.4403).
(b) The Secretary will determine a method of disbursement that is appropriate and advisable in the interest of the eligible individual and the Government, and will pay the specially adapted housing grant accordingly. Disbursement of specially adapted housing grant proceeds generally will be made to third parties who have contracted with the veteran, to an escrow agent, or to the eligible individual's lender, as the Secretary deems appropriate. If the Secretary determines that it is appropriate and advisable, the Secretary may disburse specially adapted housing grant funds directly to an eligible individual where the eligible individual has incurred authorized preconstruction or construction-related costs and paid for such authorized costs using personal funds.
(c) Should an eligible individual die before the Secretary disburses the full specially adapted housing grant, the eligible individual's estate must submit to the Secretary all requests for reimbursement within one year of the date the Loan Guaranty Service learns of the eligible individual's death. Except where the Secretary determines that equity and good conscience require otherwise, the Secretary will not reimburse an eligible individual's estate for a request that has not been received by
the Department of Veterans Affairs within this timeframe.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2101(d))
[75 FR 56876, Sept. 17, 2010, as amended at 86 FR 56216, Oct. 8, 2021]
§ 36.4407
Guaranteed and direct loans.
(a) In any case where, in addition to using the benefits of 38 U.S.C. chapter 21, the eligible individual will use his or her entitlement to the loan guaranty benefits of 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, the complete transaction must be in accord with applicable regulations found in this part.
(b) In any case where, in addition to using the benefits of 38 U.S.C. chapter 21, the eligible individual will use a direct loan under 38 U.S.C. 3711(i), the complete transaction must be in accord with the requirements of § 36.4503 and the loan must be secured by the same housing unit to be purchased, constructed, or adapted with the proceeds of the specially adapted housing grant.
(c) In any case where, in addition to using the benefits of 38 U.S.C. chapter 21, the eligible individual will use the Native American Direct Loan benefit under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, subchapter V, the eligible individual's ownership interest in the housing unit must comport with the requirements found in §§ 36.4501, 36.4512, and 36.4527 and in the tribal documents approved by the Secretary, which include, but may not be limited to, the Memorandum of Understanding, the residential lease of tribal-owned land, the tribal lending ordinances, and any relevant tribal resolutions.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2101(d), 3711(i), 3762)
§ 36.4408
Submission of proof to the Secretary.
The Secretary may, at any time, require submission of such proof of costs and other matters as the Secretary deems necessary.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control numbers 2900-0031 and 2900-0300)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101(d))
§ 36.4409
Delegations of authority.
(a) Each employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs appointed to or lawfully filling any of the following positions is hereby delegated authority, within the limitations and conditions prescribed by law, to exercise the powers and functions of the Secretary with respect to assisting eligible individuals in acquiring specially adapted housing:
(1) Under Secretary for Benefits.
(2) Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service.
(3) Deputy Director, Loan Guaranty Service.
(4) Assistant Director, Loan Policy and Valuation.
(5) Chief, Specially Adapted Housing, Loan Guaranty Service.
(6) Director, VA Medical Center.
(7) Director, VA Regional Office.
(8) Loan Guaranty Officer.
(9) Assistant Loan Guaranty Officer.
(b) Nothing in this section will be construed to authorize the determination of basic eligibility or medical feasibility under § 36.4404(a), (b)(1)(i), or (b)(1)(ii) by any employee designated in this section, except as otherwise authorized.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 512, ch. 21)
[75 FR 56876, Sept. 17, 2010, as amended at 86 FR 51275, Sept. 15, 2021; 86 FR 52991, Sept. 24, 2021]
§ 36.4410
Supplementary administrative action.
Subject to statutory limitations and conditions prescribed in title 38, U.S.C., the Secretary may take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to relieve undue prejudice to an eligible individual or a third party contracting or dealing with such eligible individual which might otherwise result.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2101(d))
§ 36.4411
Annual adjustments to the aggregate amount of assistance available.
(a) On October 1 of each year, the Secretary will increase the aggregate amounts of assistance available for grants authorized under 38 U.S.C. 2101(a) and 2101(b). Such increase will be equal to the percentage by which the Turner Building Cost Index for the
most recent calendar year exceeds that of the next preceding calendar year.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if the Turner Building Cost Index for the most recent full calendar year is equal to or less than the next preceding calendar year, the percentage increase will be zero.
(c) No later than September 30 of each year, the Secretary will publish in the
Federal Register
the aggregate amounts of assistance available for the upcoming fiscal year.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2102(e))
§ 36.4412
Specially Adapted Housing Assistive Technology Grant Program.
(a)
General.
(1) The Secretary will make grants for the development of new assistive technologies for specially adapted housing.
(2) A person or entity may apply for, and receive, a grant pursuant to this section.
(3)(i) All technology grant recipients, including individuals and entities formed as for-profit entities, will be subject to the rules on Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements With Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations, as found at 2 CFR part 200.
(ii) Where the Secretary determines that 2 CFR part 200 is not applicable or where the Secretary determines that additional requirements are necessary due to the uniqueness of a situation, the Secretary will apply the same standard applicable to exceptions under 2 CFR 200.102.
(b)
Definitions.
To supplement the definitions contained in § 36.4401, the following terms are herein defined for purposes of this section:
(1) A
technology grant applicant
is a person or entity that applies for a grant pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 2108 and this section to develop new assistive technology or technologies for specially adapted housing.
(2) A
new assistive technology
is an advancement that the Secretary determines could aid or enhance the ability of an eligible individual, as defined in 38 CFR 36.4401, to live in an adapted home.
(c)
Grant application solicitation.
As funds are available for the program, VA will publish in the
Federal Register
a Notice of Funds Availability (NoFA), soliciting applications for the grant program and providing information on applications.
(d)
Application process and requirements.
Upon publication of the NoFA, a technology grant applicant must submit an application to the Secretary via
www.Grants.gov.
Applications must consist of the following:
(1) Standard Form 424 (Application for Federal Assistance) with the box labeled “application” marked;
(2) VA Form 26-0967 (Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion) to ensure that the technology grant applicant has not been debarred or suspended and is eligible to participate in the VA grant process and receive Federal funds;
(3) Statements addressing the scoring criteria in paragraph (f) of this section; and
(4) Any additional information as deemed appropriate by VA.
(e)
Threshold requirements.
The NoFA will set out the full and specific procedural requirements for technology grant applicants.
(f)
Scoring criteria.
(1) The Secretary will score technology grant applications based on the scoring criteria in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Although there is not a cap on the maximum aggregate score possible, a technology grant application must receive a minimum aggregate score of 70 points to be considered for a technology grant.
(2) The scoring criteria and maximum points are as follows:
(i) A description of how the new assistive technology is innovative (up to 50 points);
(ii) An explanation of how the new assistive technology will meet a specific, unmet need among eligible individuals (up to 50 points);
(iii) An explanation of how the new assistive technology is specifically designed to promote the ability of eligible individuals to live more independently (up to 30 points);
(iv) A description of the new assistive technology's concept, size, and scope (up to 30 points);
(v) An implementation plan with major milestones for bringing the new assistive technology into production and to the market. Such milestones must be meaningful and achievable within a specific timeframe (up to 30 points); and
(vi) An explanation of what uniquely positions the technology grant applicant in the marketplace. This can include a focus on characteristics such as the economic reliability of the technology grant applicant, the technology grant applicant's status as a minority or veteran-owned business, or other characteristics that the technology grant applicant wants to include to show how it will help protect the interests of, or further the mission of, VA and the program (up to 20 points).
(g)
Application deadlines.
Deadlines for technology grant applications will be established in the NoFA.
(h)
Awards process.
Decisions for awarding technology grants under this section will be made in accordance with guidelines (covering such issues as timing and method of notification) described in the NoFA. The Secretary will provide written approvals, denials, or requests for additional information. The Secretary will conduct periodic audits of all approved grants under this program to ensure that the actual project size and scope are consistent with those outlined in the proposal and that established milestones are achieved.
(i)
Delegation of authority.
(1) Each VA employee appointed to or lawfully fulfilling any of the following positions is hereby delegated authority, within the limitations and conditions prescribed by law, to exercise the powers and functions of the Secretary with respect to the grant program authorized by 38 U.S.C. 2108:
(i) Under Secretary for Benefits.
(ii) Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service.
(iii) Deputy Director, Loan Guaranty Service.
(2) [Reserved]
(j)
Miscellaneous.
(1) The grant offered by this chapter is not a veterans' benefit. As such, the decisions of the Secretary are final and not subject to the same appeal rights as decisions related to veterans' benefits.
(2) The Secretary does not have a duty to assist technology grant applicants in obtaining a grant.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 4040-0004 and 2900-0821)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2108)
[80 FR 55765, Sept. 17, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 51275, Sept. 15, 2021; 86 FR 52991, Sept. 24, 2021]

# Subpart D—Direct Loans

# Note:
Those requirements, conditions, or limitations which are expressly set forth in 38 U.S.C. chapter 37 are not restated herein and must be taken into consideration in the interpretation or application of the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans.
[24 FR 2658, Apr. 7, 1959]
§ 36.4500
Applicability and qualified mortgage status.
(a)
Applicability to direct loans.
The regulations concerning direct loans to veterans shall be applicable to loans made by Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3711.
(b)
Applicability to direct loans to Native Americans.
Sections 36.4501, 36.4512, and 36.4527, which concern direct loans to Native American veterans shall be applicable to loans made by the Secretary pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3761 through 3764.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a)
(c)
Safe harbor qualified mortgage
—(1)
Defined.
A safe harbor qualified mortgage meets the Ability-to-Repay requirements of sections 129B and 129C of the Truth-in-Lending Act (TILA) regardless of whether the loan might be considered a high cost mortgage transaction as defined by section 103bb of TILA (15 U.S.C. 1602bb).
(2)
Applicability of safe harbor qualified mortgage.
Any VA direct loan made by the Secretary pursuant to chapter 20 or 37 of title 38, U.S.C., is a safe harbor qualified mortgage.
(d)
Restatement.
Title 38, U.S.C. chapter 37 is a continuation and restatement of the provisions of title III of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944,
and may be considered to be an amendment to such title III. References in the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans to the sections or chapters of title 38, United States Code, shall, where applicable, be deemed to refer to the prior corresponding provisions of the law.
(e) Sections 36.4528, 36.4529, and 36.4530, which concern vendee loans, shall be applicable to all vendee loans.
(Authority: 15 U.S.C. 1639C(b)(3)(B)(ii), 38 U.S.C. 2041, 3710, 3711, 3720, 3733, and 3761)
[24 FR 2658, Apr. 7, 1959, as amended at 58 FR 59660, Nov. 10, 1993; 62 FR 5531, Feb. 6, 1997; 79 FR 26628, May 9, 2014; 82 FR 35904, Aug. 2, 2017]
§ 36.4501
Definitions.
Wherever used in 38 U.S.C. 3711, 3762 or the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined in this section shall have the meaning herein stated, namely:
Cost
means the entire consideration paid or payable for or on account of the application of materials and labor to tangible property.
Default
means failure of a borrower to comply with the terms of a loan agreement.
Department of Veterans Affairs
means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or any employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs authorized to act in the Secretary's stead.
Dwelling
means a building designed primarily for use as a home, consisting of one residential unit only and not containing any business unit.
Energy conservation improvement.
An improvement to an existing dwelling or farm residence through the installation of a solar heating system, a solar heating and cooling system, or a combined solar heating and cooling system, or through application of a residential energy conservation measure as prescribed in 38 U.S.C. 3710(d) or by the Secretary.
Farm residence
means a dwelling located on a farm which is to be occupied by the veteran as the veteran's home.
Guaranty
means the obligation of the United States, incurred pursuant to 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, to repay a specified percentage of a loan upon the default of the primary debtor.
Home
means a place of residence.
Improvement
means any addition or alteration which enhances the utility of the property for residential purposes.
Indebtedness
means the unpaid principal and interest plus any other sums a borrower is obligated to pay Department of Veterans Affairs under the terms of the loan instruments or of the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans.
Loan
means a loan made to a veteran by Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3711 or 3762 and the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans.
Meaningful interest
means a leasehold estate or other interest in trust land and any improvements thereon which permits the use, occupancy and enjoyment of that land and any improvements by the grantee. This interest must be capable of being conveyed (1) as security for a loan made under 38 CFR 36.4527, (2) by the grantee to a third party subject to the approval of the tribal organization and the Secretary or designee, and (3) by the Secretary or other foreclosing mortgagee, subject to the provisions of a memorandum of understanding entered into by the Secretary or designee, the tribal organization, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Native American
means:
(1) An Indian, as defined in section 4(d) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(d));
(2) A native Hawaiian, as defined in section 201(a)(7) of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act of 1920, (Public Law 67-34, 42 Stat. 108);
(3) An Alaska Native within the meaning provided for the term 'Native' in section 3(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b)); and
(4) A Pacific Islander, within the meaning of the Native American Programs Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 2991
et seq.
)
Native American veteran
means any veteran who is a Native American.
Period of more than 180 days
means 181 or more calendar days of continuous active duty.
Purchase price
means the entire legal consideration paid or payable upon or
on account of the sale of property, exclusive of acquisition costs, or for the cost of materials and labor to be applied thereto.
Reasonable value
means that figure which represents the amount a reputable and qualified appraiser, unaffected by personal interest, bias, or prejudice, would recommend to a prospective purchaser as proper price or cost in the light of prevailing conditions.
Repairs
means any alteration of existing realty which is necessary or advisable for protective, safety, or restorative purposes.
Safe harbor qualified mortgage
means a mortgage that meets the Ability-to-Repay requirements of sections 129B and 129C of the Truth-in-Lending Act (TILA) regardless of whether the loan might be considered a high cost mortgage transaction as defined by section 103bb of TILA (15 U.S.C. 1602bb).
Secretary
means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or any employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs authorized to act in the Secretary's stead.
Tribal organization
has the same meaning given in section 4(l) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(1)) and includes the Department of Hawaiian Homelands, in the case of native Hawaiians, and such other organizations as the Secretary may prescribe.
Trust land
means any land that:
(1) Is held in trust by the United States for Native Americans;
(2) Is subject to restrictions on alienation imposed by the United States on Indian lands (including native Hawaiian homelands);
(3) Is owned by a Regional Corporation or a Village Corporation, as such terms are defined in section 3(g) and 3(j) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, respectively (43 U.S.C. 1602(g), (j)); or
(4) Is on any island in the Pacific Ocean if such land is, by cultural tradition, communally-owned land, as determined by the Secretary.
Vendee loan
means a loan made by the Secretary for the purpose of financing the purchase of a property acquired pursuant to chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code. The terms of a vendee loan (
e.g.,
amount of down payment; amortization term; whether to escrow taxes, insurance premiums, or homeowners' association dues; fees, etc.) are negotiated between the Secretary and the borrower on a case-by-case basis, subject to the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 2041 or 3733. Terms related to allowable fees are also subject to §§ 36.4528 through 36.4530.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3761-3764)
[24 FR 2658, Apr. 7, 1959, as amended at 31 FR 16713, Dec. 30, 1966; 35 FR 17180, Nov. 7, 1970; 40 FR 4143, Jan. 28, 1975; 41 FR 32218, Aug. 2, 1976; 41 FR 44859, Oct. 13, 1976; 45 FR 20472, Mar. 28, 1980; 46 FR 43674, Aug. 31, 1981; 58 FR 59660, Nov. 10, 1993; 79 FR 26628, May 9, 2014; 82 FR 35904, Aug. 2, 2017]
§ 36.4502
Use of guaranty entitlement.
The guaranty entitlement of the veteran obtaining a direct loan which is closed on or after February 1, 1988, shall be charged with the lessor of the loan amount or an amount which bears the same ratio to $36,000 as the amount of the loan bears to $33,000. The charge against entitlement of a veteran who obtained a direct loan which was closed prior to the aforesaid date, shall be the amount which would have been charged had the loan been closed subsequent to such date.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3711(d)(2)(A))
[55 FR 40657, Oct. 4, 1990]
§ 36.4503
Amount and amortization.
(a) The original principal amount of any loan made on or after February 1, 1988, shall not exceed an amount which bears the same ratio to $33,000 as the amount of the guaranty to which the veterans is entitled under 38 U.S.C. 3710 at the time the loan is made bears to $36,000. This limitation shall not preclude the making of advances, otherwise proper, subsequent to the making of the loan pursuant to the provisions of § 36.4511. Except as to home improvement loans, loans made by VA shall near interest at the rate of 7
1/2
percent per annum. Loans solely for the purposes of energy conservation improvements or other alterations, improvements, or repairs shall bear interest at the rate of 9 percent per annum.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3711(d)(2)(A))
(b) Each loan shall be repayable on the basis of approximately equal monthly installments; except that in the case of loans made for any of the purposes described in clause (2), (3), or (4) of subsection (a) of 38 U.S.C. 3710, such loans may provide for repayment in quarterly, semiannual, or annual installments, provided that such plan of repayment corresponds to the present and anticipated income of the veteran.
(c) The first installment payment on a loan to construct, alter or improve a farm residence or other dwelling may be postponed for a period not exceeding 12 months from the date of the loan instruments. The first installment payment for a loan for the purchase of a dwelling or farm on which there is a farm residence may not be postponed more than 60 days from the date of loan closing:
Provided,
That if the loan is repayable in quarterly, semi-annual or annual installments, the first installment payment date may be postponed for not more than 12 months from the date of the loan instruments.
(d) The final installment on any loan shall not be in excess of two times the average of the preceding installments, except that on a construction loan the final installment may be for an amount not in excess of 5 percent of the original principal amount of the loan. The limitations imposed by this paragraph on the amount of the final installment shall not apply in the case of any loan extended or recast pursuant to § 36.4505 or 36.4506.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 3703(c)(1), 3711(d)(1), 3712 (f) and (g))
[15 FR 6288, Sept. 20, 1950, as amended at 24 FR 2658, Apr. 7, 1959; 52 FR 12382, Apr. 16, 1987; 52 FR 18357, May 15, 1987; 53 FR 18983, May 26, 1988; 53 FR 44401, Nov. 3, 1988; 53 FR 51551, Dec. 22, 1988; 54 FR 24557, June 8, 1989; 54 FR 30384, July 20, 1989; 55 FR 6983, Feb. 28, 1990; 55 FR 40657, Oct. 4, 1990; 57 FR 37713, Aug. 20, 1992]
§ 36.4504
Loan closing expenses.
(a) Department of Veterans Affairs will designate a loan closer to represent the Department of Veterans Affairs at the closing and in advance thereof will agree with the loan closer upon the fee to be paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs for preparing the loan closing instruments and attending at the closing of the loan. The loan closer as such is neither an agent nor employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(b) With respect to a loan made to a veteran-borrower pursuant to an application (VA Form 26-1802a, received by the Department of Veterans Affairs on or after March 3, 1966, the borrower shall pay the Department of Veterans Affairs the following:
(1) $50, or one percent (1%) of the loan amount, whichever is greater, which charge shall be in lieu of the loan closer's fee, credit report, and cost of appraisal:
Provided,
That if the loan is to finance the cost of construction, repairs, alterations, or improvements necessitating disbursements of the loan proceeds as the construction or other work progresses, the charge to the veteran-borrower shall be two percent (2%) of the loan amount, but not less than $50 in any event.
(2)(i) A loan fee of one percent of the total loan amount. All or part of such fee may be paid in cash at loan closing or all or part of the fee may be included in the loan without regard to the reasonable value of the property. In computing the fee, the Department of Veterans Affairs will disregard any amount included in the loan to enable the borrower to pay such fee. If all or part of the fee is included in the loan, the amount of the loan as increased may not exceed $33,000.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3729(a))
(ii) The fee described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section shall not be collected from a veteran who is receiving compensation (or who but for the receipt of retirement pay would be entitled to receive compensation) or from a surviving spouse described in section 3701(b)(2) of title 38 U.S.C.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3729(b))
(iii) Collection of the loan fee described in this paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall not apply to loans closed prior to August 17, 1984, or to loans closed after September 30, 1987.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3729(d))
(3) Costs or expenses normally paid by a purchaser or lienor incident to
loan closing including but not limited to the following:
(i) Fee of Department of Veterans Affairs designated compliance inspector;
(ii) Recording fees and recording taxes or other charges incident to recordation;
(iii) That portion of taxes, assessments, and other similar items for the current year chargeable to the borrower and the initial deposit (lump-sum payment) for the tax and insurance account;
(iv) Hazard insurance as required by § 36.4512,
(v) Survey, if any;
(vi) Title examination and title evidence.
Charges or costs payable by the veteran-borrower, except as to the payment of the loan fee described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, shall be paid in cash and may not be paid out of the proceeds of the loan. No service or brokerage fee shall be charged against the veteran-borrower by any third party for procuring a direct loan or in connection therewith.
(c) With respect to a loan to construct, repair, alter, or improve a farm residence or other dwelling, the Department of Veterans Affairs may require the veteran to deposit with the Department of Veterans Affairs, or in an escrow satisfactory to the Department of Veterans Affairs, 10 percent of the estimated cost thereof or such alternative sum, in cash or its equivalent, as the Department of Veterans Affairs may determine to be necessary in order to afford adequate assurance that sufficient funds will be available, from the proceeds of the loan or from other sources, to assure completion of the construction, repair, alteration, or improvement in accordance with the plans and specifications upon which the Department of Veterans Affairs based its loan commitment.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 3724, and 3729)
[15 FR 6288, Sept. 20, 1950, as amended at 23 FR 2339, Apr. 10, 1958; 33 FR 6976, May 9, 1968; 35 FR 17180, Nov. 7, 1970; 41 FR 32218, Aug. 2, 1976; 47 FR 46700, Oct. 20, 1982; 50 FR 5755, Feb. 12, 1985]
§ 36.4505
Maturity of loan.
(a) The maturity of a loan shall not exceed 25 years and 32 days. If the Department of Veterans Affairs determines the income and expenses of a veteran-applicant under customary credit standards would prevent the veteran from making the required loan payments for a loan which matures in 25 years and 32 days, but the veteran would be able to make the loan payments over a longer period of time, the loan may be made with a maturity not in excess of 30 years and 32 days.
(b) Every loan shall be repayable within the estimated economic life of the property securing the loan.
(c) Nothing in this section shall preclude extension of the loan pursuant to the provisions of § 36.4506.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703 (c)(1), (d)(1))
[46 FR 43675, Aug. 31, 1981]
§ 36.4506
Recasting.
In the event of default or to avoid imminent default, the Department of Veterans Affairs may at any time enter into an agreement with the borrower which will permit the latter temporarily to repay the obligation on a basis appropriate to the borrower's apparent current ability to pay or may enter into an appropriate recasting or extension agreement:
Provided,
That no such agreement shall extend the ultimate repayment of a loan beyond the expiration of 30 years and 32 days from the date of the loan.
Provided further,
That nothing in this section shall be deemed to limit the forbearance or indulgence which the Secretary may extend in an individual case pursuant to the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3720(f).
[46 FR 43675, Aug. 31, 1981]
§ 36.4507
Refinancing of mortgage or other lien indebtedness.
(a) Loans may be made for the purpose of refinancing (38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(5)) an existing mortgage loan or other indebtedness secured by a lien of record on a dwelling or farm residence owned and occupied by an eligible veteran as the veteran's home, provided that:
(1) The amount of the loan does not exceed the sum due the holder of the mortgage or other lien indebtedness on
such dwelling or farm residence, and also is not more than the reasonable value of the dwelling or farm residence, and
(2) The loan is otherwise eligible.
(b) A refinancing loan for an amount which exceeds the sum due the holder of the mortgage or other lien indebtedness (the excess proceeds to be paid to the veteran) may also be made,
Provided, That:
(1) The loan is otherwise eligible, and
(2) The issuance of a commitment to make any such loan for an amount which exceeds eighty (80) percent of the reasonable value of the veteran's dwelling or farm residence shall require, unless the Under Secretary for Benefits otherwise directs, the approval of the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service.
(c) Nothing shall preclude making a loan pursuant to the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(5) to an eligible veteran having home loan guaranty entitlement to refinance a loan previously guaranteed insured or made by the Secretary which is outstanding on the dwelling or farm residence owned and occupied or to be reoccupied after the completion of major alterations, repairs, or improvements to the property, by the veteran as the veteran's home.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3711)
(d) A refinancing loan may include contractual prepayment penalties, if any, due the holder of the mortgage or other lien indebtedness to be refinanced.
(e) Nothing in this section shall preclude the refinancing of the balance due for the purchase of land on which new construction is to be financed through the proceeds of the loan, or the refinancing of the balance due on an existing land sale contract relating to a veteran's dwelling or farm residence.
[35 FR 18872, Dec. 11, 1970, as amended at 46 FR 43675, Aug. 31, 1981; 49 FR 42571, Oct. 23, 1984; 61 FR 28059, June 4, 1996]
§ 36.4508
Transfer of property by borrower.
(a) Direct loans for which commitments are made on or after March 1, 1988, are not assumable without the prior approval of the Department of Veterans Affairs or its authorized agent. The following shall apply:
(1) The Department of Veterans Affairs shall include in the mortgage or deed of trust and the promissory note or bond on any loan for which a commitment was made on or after March 1, 1988, the following warning in a conspicuous position in capital letters on the first page of the document in type at least 2
1/2
times larger than the regular type on such page: “THIS LOAN IS NOT ASSUMABLE WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OR ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT”. Due to the difficulty in obtaining some commercial type sizes which are exactly 2
1/2
times larger in height than other sizes, minor deviations in size will be permitted based on commercially available type sizes nearest to 2
1/2
times the size of the print on the document.
(2) The instrument securing a direct loan for which a commitment is made on or after March 1, 1988, shall include:
(i) A provision that the Department of Veterans Affairs or other holder may declare the loan immediately due and payable upon transfer of the property securing such loan to any transferee unless the acceptability of the assumption of the loan is established pursuant to section 3714. This option may not be exercised if the transfer is the result of:
(A) The creation of a lien or other encumbrance subordinate to the lender's security instrument which does not relate to a transfer of rights of occupancy in the property;
(B) The creation of a purchase money security interest for household appliances;
(C) A transfer by devise, descent, or operation of law on the death of a joint tenant or tenant by the entirety;
(D) The granting of a leasehold interest of three years or less not containing an option to purchase;
(E) A transfer to a relative resulting from the death of a borrower;
(F) A transfer where the spouse or children of the borrower become a joint owner of the property with the borrower;
(G) A transfer resulting from a decree of a dissolution of marriage, legal separation agreement, or from an incidental property settlement agreement by which the spouse of the borrower becomes the sole owner of the property. In such a case the borrower shall have the option of applying directly to the Department of Veterans Affairs regional office of jurisdiction for a release of liability under 1813(a); or
(H) A transfer into an inter vivos trust in which the borrower is and remains a beneficiary and which does not relate to a transfer of rights of occupancy in the property.
(ii) A provision that a funding fee equal to one-half of one percent of the loan balance as of the date of transfer shall be payable to the Department of Veterans Affairs or its authorized agent. Furthermore, this provision shall provide that if this fee is not paid it shall constitute an additional debt to that already secured by the instrument; and,
(iii) A provision authorizing an assumption processing charge, not to exceed the lesser of $300 and the actual cost of a credit report or any maximum prescribed by applicable State law.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3714)
(b) Whenever any veteran disposes of residential property securing a direct loan obtained under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, the Department of Veterans Affairs, upon application made by such borrower, shall issue to the borrower a release relieving the borrower of all further liability to the Department of Veterans Affairs on account of such loan (including liability for any loss resulting from any default of the transferee or any subsequent purchaser of such property) if the Department of Veterans Affairs has determined, after such investigation as it deems appropriate, that there has been compliance with the conditions prescribed in 38 U.S.C. 3713(a) or 1814, as appropriate. The assumption of full liability for repayment of the loan by the transferee of the property must be evidenced by an agreement in writing in such form as the Department of Veterans Affairs may require. Any release of liability granted to a veteran by the Department of Veterans Affairs shall inure to the spouse of such veteran.
(c) If, on or after July 1, 1972, any veteran disposes of the property securing a direct loan obtained under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37, without receiving a release from liability with respect to such loan under 38 U.S.C. 3713(a) and a default subsequently occurs which results in liability of the veteran to the Secretary on account of the loan, the Secretary may relieve the veteran of such liability if the Secretary determines that:
(1) A transferee either immediate or remote is legally liable to the Secretary for the debt of the original veteran-borrower established after the termination of the loan, and
(2) The original loan was current at the time such transferee acquired the property, and
(3) The transferee who is liable to the Secretary is found to have been a satisfactory credit risk at the time the transferee acquired the property.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2900-0516)
[15 FR 6289, Sept. 29, 1950, as amended at 33 FR 5362, Apr. 4, 1968; 37 FR 24034, Nov. 11, 1972; 46 FR 43675, Aug. 31, 1981; 55 FR 37477, Sept. 12, 1990]
§ 36.4509
Joint loans.
(a) No loan will be made unless an eligible veteran is the sole principal obligor, or such veteran and spouse or eligible veteran co-applicant are the principal obligors thereon, nor unless such veteran alone, or together with a spouse or eligible veteran co-applicant, acquire the entire fee simple or other permissible estate in the realty for the acquisition of which the loan was obtained. Nothing in this section shall preclude other parties from becoming liable as comaker, endorser, guarantor, or surety.
(b) Notwithstanding that an applicant and spouse or other co-applicant are both eligible veterans and will be jointly and severally liable as borrowers, the original principal amount of the loan may not exceed the maximum permissible under § 36.4503(a). In
any event the loan may not exceed $33,000.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3711(d)(2)(A) and (3))
[43 FR 60460, Dec. 28, 1978]
§ 36.4510
Prepayment, acceleration, and liquidation.
(a) Any credit on the loan not previously applied in satisfaction of matured installments, other than the gratuity credit required by prior provisions of law to be credited to principal, may be reapplied by the Department of Veterans Affairs at the request of the borrower for the purpose of curing or preventing a default.
(b) The Department of Veterans Affairs shall include in the instruments evidencing or securing the indebtedness provisions relating to the following:
(1) The right of the borrower to prepay at any time without premium or fee, the entire indebtedness or any part thereof:
Provided,
That any such prepayment, other than payment in full, may not be made in any amount less than the amount of one installment, or $100, whichever is less:
And provided further,
That any prepayment made on other than an installment due date will not be credited until the next following installment due date, but not later than 30 days after such prepayment.
(2) The right of the Department of Veterans Affairs to accelerate the maturity of the entire indebtedness in the event of default.
(3) The right of the Department of Veterans Affairs to foreclose or otherwise proceed to liquidate or acquire property which is the security for the loan in the event of the borrower's delinquency in the repayment of the obligation or in the event of default in any other provisions of the loan contract.
(c) The Department of Veterans Affairs shall have the right to accelerate the entire indebtedness and to foreclose or otherwise proceed to liquidate, or acquire the security for the loan, in the event the veteran is adjudged a bankrupt, or if the property has been abandoned by the borrower or subjected to waste or hazard, or in the event conditions exist which warrant the appointment of a receiver by court.
[15 FR 6289, Sept. 20, 1950, as amended at 20 FR 6260, Aug. 26, 1955; 24 FR 2658, Apr. 7, 1959; 41 FR 44859, Oct. 13, 1976; 61 FR 28059, June 4, 1996]
§ 36.4511
Advances after loan closing.
(a) The Department of Veterans Affairs may at any time advance any sum or sums as are reasonably necessary and proper for the maintenance, repair, alteration, or improvement of the security for a loan or for the payment of taxes, assessments, ground or water rights, or casualty insurance thereon:
Provided,
That no advance shall be made for alterations or improvements which are not necessary for the maintenance or repair of the security if such advance will increase the indebtedness to an amount in excess of $33,000.
(b) All sums disbursed incident to the making of advances under this section shall be added to the indebtedness. Department of Veterans Affairs may require any such advances to be secured ratably and on a parity with the principal indebtedness, or otherwise secured. The sum so advanced shall be evidenced by a supplemental note or otherwise as may be required by Department of Veterans Affairs.
(c) Department of Veterans Affairs may pay and charge against the indebtedness, or against the proceeds of the sale of any security therefor, any expense which is reasonably necessary for collection of the debt, protection, repossession, preservation, or liquidation of the security or of the lien thereon, including a reasonable amount for trustees' and legal fees.
(d) The Department of Veterans Affairs may treat as an advance and add to the mortgage balance the one-half of one percent funding fee due on a transfer under 38 U.S.C. 3714 when this is not paid at the time of transfer.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3714)
[15 FR 6289, Sept. 20, 1950, as amended at 38 FR 33772, Dec. 7, 1973; 41 FR 44859, Oct. 13, 1976; 55 FR 37478, Sept. 12, 1990]
§ 36.4512
Taxes and insurance.
(a) In addition to the monthly installment payments of principal and
interest payable under the terms of the loan agreement, the borrower will be required to make payments monthly to the Secretary in such amounts as may be determined by the Secretary from time to time to be necessary for the purpose of accumulating funds sufficient for the payment of taxes and assessments, ground rents, insurance premiums, and similar levies or charges on the security property. The borrower at loan closing shall pay in cash to the Secretary such sum as it estimates may be necessary as the initial deposit to the borrower's tax and insurance reserve account.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3720)
(b) The borrower shall procure and maintain insurance of a type or types and in such amounts as may be required by the Secretary to protect the security against fire and other hazards. The Secretary cannot make a loan for the acquisition or construction of property located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as having special flood hazards unless the community in which such area is situated is then participating in the National Flood Insurance Program. The Secretary shall not make, increase, extend, or renew a loan secured by a building or manufactured home that is located or to be located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as having special flood hazards and in which flood insurance has been made available under the National Flood Insurance Act, as amended, unless the building or manufactured home and any personal property securing the loan is covered by flood insurance for the term of the loan. The amount of flood insurance must be at least equal to the lesser of the outstanding principal balance of the loan or the maximum limit of coverage available for the particular type of property under the National Flood Insurance Act, as amended. The requirements of 38 CFR 36.4700 through 36.4709 shall apply to direct loans made pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3711 and 3761 through 3764. All hazard and flood insurance shall be carried with a company or companies satisfactory to the Secretary and the policies and renewals thereof shall be held in the possession of the Secretary and contain a mortgagee loss payable clause in favor of and in a form satisfactory to the Secretary.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a, 4106(a))
[62 FR 5531, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4513
Foreclosure and liquidation.
In the event of a foreclosure sale or other liquidation of the security for a loan, the Department of Veterans Affairs shall credit upon the indebtedness the greater of:
(a) The net proceeds of the sale, or
(b) The current market value of the property as determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs, less the costs and expenses of liquidation.
In no event shall the credit pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section exceed the amount of the gross indebtedness, nor shall such credit be less than the amount legally required to be credited to the indebtedness under local law. If a deed in lieu of foreclosure is accepted, the consideration will be a full and complete release of liability of the obligors, or such lesser amount as may be agreed upon between the obligors and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
[23 FR 2340, Apr. 10, 1958]
§ 36.4514
Eligibility requirements.
Prior to making a loan, or a commitment therefor, the Department of Veterans Affairs shall determine that:
(a) The applicant is an eligible veteran.
(b) The applicant has full capacity under local law to enter into binding contracts.
(c) The applicant is a satisfactory credit risk and has the ability to repay the obligation proposed to be incurred and that the proposed payments on such obligation bear a proper relationship to present and anticipated income and expenses as determined by use of the credit standards in § 36.4337 of this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
(d) Private capital is not available in the area at an interest rate not in excess of the rate authorized for guaranteed home loans for a loan for which
the veteran is qualified under 38 U.S.C. 3710.
(e) The applicant is unable to obtain a loan for such purpose from the Secretary of Agriculture, under the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act, as amended, or under the Housing Act of 1949.
(f) In respect to a loan application received on or after September 15, 1956, there has been compliance by the applicant with the certification requirements prescribed in 38 U.S.C. 3704(c).
(g) The applicant has certified, in such form as the Secretary shall prescribe, that
(1) Neither the applicant nor anyone authorized to act for the applicant, will refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bonafide offer, or refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny the dwelling or property covered by this loan to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
(2) The applicant recognizes that any restrictive covenant on the property relating to race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin is illegal and void and any such covenant is specifically disclaimed; and
(3) The applicant understands that civil action for preventive relief may be brought by the Attorney General of the United States in any appropriate U.S. District Court against any person responsible for a violation of the applicable law.
[15 FR 6290, Sept. 20, 1950, as amended at 20 FR 6260, Aug. 26, 1955; 24 FR 2658, Apr. 7, 1959; 36 FR 13032, July 13, 1971; 56 FR 9862, Mar. 8, 1991]
§ 36.4515
Estate of veteran in real property.
(a) The estate in the realty acquired by the veteran, wholly or partly with the proceeds of a loan hereunder, or owned by the veteran and on which improvements on a farmhouse are to be financed by such loan, shall be not less than:
(1) A fee simple estate therein, legal or equitable; or
(2) A leasehold estate running or renewable at the option of the lessee for a period of not less than 14 years from the maturity of the loan, or to any earlier date at which the fee simple title will vest in the lessee, which is assignable or transferable, if the same be subjected to the lien; however, a leasehold estate which is not freely assignable and transferable will be considered an acceptable estate if it is determined by the Under Secretary for Benefits, or the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, (i) that such type of leasehold is customary in the area where the property is located; (ii) that a veteran or veterans will be prejudiced if the requirement for free assignability is adhered to and (iii) that the assignability and other provisions applicable to the leasehold estate are sufficient to protect the interests of the veteran and the Government and are otherwise acceptable; or
(3) A life estate, provided that the remainder and reversionary interests are subjected to the lien. The title to such estate shall be such as is acceptable to informed buyers, title companies, and attorneys, generally, in the community in which the property is situated, except as modified by paragraph (b) of this section; or
(4) A beneficial interest in a revocable Family Living Trust that ensures that the veteran, or veteran and spouse, have an equitable life estate, provided the lien attaches to any remainder interest and the trust arrangement is valid under State law.
(b) Any such property or estate will not fail to comply with the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section by reason of the following:
(1) Encroachments;
(2) Easements;
(3) Servitudes;
(4) Reservations for water, timber, or subsurface rights;
(5) Right in any grantor or cotenant in the chain of title, or a successor of either, to purchase for cash, which right by the terms thereof is exercisable only if:
(i) An owner elects to sell,
(ii) The option price is not less than the price at which the then owner is willing to sell to another, and
(iii) Exercised within 30 days after notice is mailed by registered mail to the address of optionee last known to the then owner, of the then owner's
election to sell, stating the price and the identity of the proposed vendee;
(6) Building and use restrictions whether or not enforceable by a reverter clause if there has been no breach of the conditions affording a right to an exercise of the reverter;
(7) Any other covenant, condition, restriction, or limitation approved by the Department of Veterans Affairs in the particular case.
The limitations on the quantum or quality of the estate or property that are indicated in this paragraph, insofar as they may materially affect the value of the property for the purpose for which it is used, shall be taken into account in the appraisal of reasonable value.
[15 FR 6290, Sept. 20, 1950, as amended at 24 FR 2658, Apr. 7, 1959; 28 FR 11506, Oct. 29, 1963; 33 FR 18027, Dec. 4, 1968; 34 FR 11095, July 1, 1969; 45 FR 20472, Mar. 28, 1980; 56 FR 9862, Mar. 8, 1991; 61 FR 28059, June 4, 1996]
§ 36.4516
Lien requirements.
(a) Loans for the purchase of a dwelling or for the purchase of a farm on which there is a farm residence shall be secured by a first lien on the property or estate. Loans for the construction of a farm residence or other dwelling shall also be secured by a first lien.
(b) Loans solely for the purpose of energy conservation improvements or other alterations, improvements, or repairs shall be secured in the following manner:
(1) Loans for $1,500 or less need not be secured, and in lieu of the title examination a statement may be accepted from the borrower that he or she has an interest in the property not less than that prescribed in § 36.4515(a).
(2) Loans for more than $1,500 but 40 percent or less of the prior to the improved reasonable value of the property shall be secured by a lien reasonable and customary in the community for the type of alteration, improvement, or repair financed.
(3) Loans for more than $1,500 and for more than 40 percent of the prior to the improved reasonable value of such property shall be secured by a first lien on the property or estate. However, such a home improvement loan may be secured by a lien immediately subordinate to the lien securing the previous loan extended by the Secretary, if the Department of Veterans Affairs is the holder of all liens of superior priority on the property.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3711(d)(1))
(c) Tax liens, special assessment liens, and ground rent shall be disregarded with respect to any requirement that loans shall be secured by a lien of specified dignity. With the prior approval of the Secretary, Under Secretary for Benefits, or Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, liens retained by nongovernmental entities to secure assessments or charges for municipal type services and facilities clearly within the public purpose doctrine may be disregarded. In determining whether a loan for the purchase or construction of a home is secured by a first lien the Secretary may also disregard a superior lien created by a duly recorded covenant running with the realty in favor of a private entity to secure an obligation to such entity for the homeowner's share of the costs of the management, operation, or maintenance of property, services or programs within and for the benefit of the development or community in which the veteran's realty is located, if the Secretary determines that the interests of the veteran-borrower and of the Government will not be prejudiced by the operation of such covenant. In respect to any such superior lien to be created after June 6, 1969, the Secretary's determination must have been made prior to the recordation of the covenant.
[20 FR 6261, Aug. 26, 1955, as amended at 20 FR 9180, Dec. 10, 1955; 23 FR 2340, Apr. 10, 1958; 34 FR 9561, June 18, 1969; 45 FR 20472, Mar. 28, 1980; 61 FR 28059, June 4, 1996]
§ 36.4517
Incorporation by reference.
The regulations concerning direct loans to veterans in effect on the date a loan is closed shall govern the rights, duties, and liabilities of the parties to such loan during the period the Department of Veterans Affairs is the holder thereof, and any provisions of the loan instruments inconsistent with such regulations are hereby amended and supplemented to conform thereto.
[15 FR 6290, Sept. 20, 1950]
§ 36.4518
Supplementary administrative action.
Notwithstanding any requirement condition, or limitation stated in or imposed by the regulations in this part concerning direct loans to veterans, the Under Secretary for Benefits, or the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, within the limitations and conditions prescribed by the Secretary, may take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to relieve any undue prejudice to a debtor, or other person, which might otherwise result, provided such action shall not impair the vested rights of any person affected thereby. If such requirement, condition, or limitation is of an administrative or procedural nature, such action may be taken by any employee authorized to act under § 36.4520.
[23 FR 2340, Apr. 10, 1958, as amended at 61 FR 28059, June 4, 1996]
§ 36.4519
Eligible purposes and reasonable value requirements.
(a) A loan may be made only for the purpose hereinafter set forth in this paragraph, and the loan may not exceed the reasonable value of the property as established by the Department of Veterans Affairs:
(1) To purchase or construct a dwelling to be owned and occupied by the veteran as a home;
(2) To purchase a farm on which there is a farm residence to be occupied by the veteran as a home;
(3) To construct on land owned by the veteran a farm residence to be occupied by the veteran as a home;
(4) To repair, alter, or improve a farm residence or other dwelling owned and occupied or to be reoccupied after the completion of major alterations, repairs, or improvements to the property, by the veteran as his or her home;
(5) To make energy conservation improvements to a dwelling owned and occupied or to be occupied after the completion of major alterations, repairs, or improvements to the property, by the veteran as his or her home;
(6) To refinance (38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(5)) existing mortgage loans or other lines which are secured of record on a dwelling or farm residence owned and occupied or to be reoccupied after the completion of major alterations, repairs or improvements to the property, by the veteran as the veteran's home;
Provided,
The veteran certifies, in such form as the Secretary may prescribe, that he or she has paid in cash from his or her own resources on account of such purchase, construction, alteration, repair, or improvement a sum equal to the difference, if any, between the purchase price or cost of the property and its reasonable value.
(b) In the case of a loan for the construction of a farm residence or other dwelling on land owned by the veteran, a portion of the loan proceeds may be expended to liquidate an indebtedness secured by a lien against such land, but only if the reasonable value of the land is equal to or in excess of the amount of the indebtedness secured by such lien and if the liquidation of such indebtedness will permit the loan to be secured by a first lien. Except as provided in § 36.4507, no portion of the proceeds of a loan for repairs, alterations or improvements to a farm residence or other dwelling may be expended to liquidate a prior lien against the property.
(c) No direct loan may be made for the purpose of an interest rate reduction refinancing loan pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3710(a)(8).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3711(b))
[20 FR 6261, Aug. 26, 1955, as amended at 43 FR 60461, Dec. 28, 1978; 46 FR 43675, Aug. 31, 1981; 49 FR 42571, Oct. 23, 1984]
§ 36.4520
Delegation of authority.
(a) Except as hereinafter provided, each employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs heretofore or hereafter appointed to, or otherwise lawfully filling, any position designated in paragraph (b) of this section is hereby delegated authority, within the limitations and conditions prescribed by law, to exercise the powers and functions of the Secretary with respect to the making of loans and the rights and liabilities arising therefrom, including but not limited to the collection or compromise of amounts due, in money or other property, the extension, rearrangement, or sale of loans, the management and disposition of secured or unsecured notes and other property. In connection with direct loans made and
held by the Department of Veterans Affairs, such designated employees may take any action which they are authorized to consent to or approve in respect to guaranteed or insured loans under the regulations prescribed therefor by the Secretary. Incidental to the exercise and performance of the powers and functions hereby delegated, each such employee is authorized to execute and deliver (with or without acknowledgment) for, and on behalf of, the Secretary evidence of guaranty and such certificates, forms, conveyances, and other instruments as may be appropriate in connection with the acquisition, ownership, management, sale, transfer, assignment, encumbrance, rental, or other disposition of real or personal property or of any right, title, or interest therein, including, but not limited to, contracts of sale, installment contracts, deeds, leases, bills of sale, assignments, and releases; and to approve disbursements to be made for any purpose authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37.
(b) Designated positions:
Under Secretary for Benefits
Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service
Director, Medical and Regional Office Center
Director, VA Regional Office and Insurance Center
Director, Regional Office
Loan Guaranty Officer
Assistant Loan Guaranty Officer
The authority hereby delegated to employees of the positions designated in this paragraph may, with the approval of the Under Secretary for Benefits, be redelegated.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize any such employee to exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under 38 U.S.C. 501 or 3703(a)(2) or to sue or enter appearance for and on behalf of the Secretary or confess judgment against the Secretary in any court without the Secretary's prior authorization.
(d) Each Regional Office, regional office and insurance center, and Medical and Regional Office Center shall maintain and keep current a cumulative list of all employees of that Office or Center who, since May 1, 1980, have occupied the positions of Director or Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Officer, and Assistant Loan Guaranty Officer. This list will include each employee's name, title, date the employee assumed the position, and the termination date, if applicable, of the employee's tenure in such position. The list shall be available for public inspection and copying at the Regional Office, or Center, during normal business hours.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 3720(a)(5))
[23 FR 2340, Apr. 10, 1958, as amended at 43 FR 60461, Dec. 28, 1978; 45 FR 21243, Mar. 1, 1980; 46 FR 43675, Aug. 31, 1981; 54 FR 34988, Aug. 23, 1989; 61 FR 28059, June 4, 1996; 86 FR 51276, Sept. 15, 2021]
§ 36.4521
Minimum property and construction requirements.
No loan for the purchase or construction of residential property shall be made unless such property complies or conforms with those standards of planning, construction, and general acceptability applicable thereto which have been prescribed by the Secretary.
[23 FR 2340, Apr. 10, 1958]
§ 36.4522
Waivers, consents, and approvals.
No waiver, consent, or approval required or authorized by the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans shall be valid unless in writing signed by Department of Veterans Affairs.
[15 FR 6291, Sept. 20, 1950]
§ 36.4523
Geographical limits.
Any real property purchased, constructed, or improved with the proceeds of a loan under 38 U.S.C. 3711 shall be situated in the United States, which for purposes of 38 U.S.C. Chapter 37 is here defined as the several States, Territories, and possessions, and the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands:
Provided.
That no loan shall be made pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3711 unless the real property is located in one of the areas designated from time to time by the Department of Veterans Affairs as an area in which private capital is not available under 38 U.S.C. chapter 37 to eligible veterans for financing of the
purchase, construction, repairs, alterations, or improvement of a farm residence or other dwelling, as the case may be.
[46 FR 43675, Aug. 31, 1981]
§ 36.4524
Sale of loans.
In the event a direct loan is purchased from the Department of Veterans Affairs at any time pursuant to the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3711(g), the Department of Veterans Affairs may issue a guaranty in connection therewith within the maximums applicable to loans guaranteed under 38 U.S.C. 3710 and such loans shall thereafter be subject to the applicable provisions of the regulations governing the guaranty or insurance of loans to veterans, and such part of the regulations concerning direct loans to veterans as may be inconsistent therewith or variant therefrom shall no longer govern the subsequent disposition of the rights and liabilities of any interested parties.
[24 FR 2659, Apr. 7, 1959]
§ 36.4525
Requirement of a construction warranty.
Any commitment to make a direct loan and any approval of a direct loan application issued or made on or after May 2, 1955, shall, if the purpose of the loan is to finance the construction of a dwelling or farmhouse or to finance the purchase of a newly constructed dwelling, be subject to the express condition that the builder, seller, or the real party in interest in the transaction shall deliver to the veteran constructing or purchasing such dwelling with the aid of a direct loan a warranty, in the form prescribed by the Secretary, that the property has been completed in substantial conformity with the plans and specifications upon which the Secretary based the valuation of the property, including any modifications thereof, or changes or variations therein, approved in writing by the Secretary, and no direct loan shall be disbursed in full unless a copy of such warranty duly receipted by the purchaser is submitted to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
[20 FR 2463, Apr. 14, 1955, as amended at 46 FR 43676, Aug. 31, 1981]
§ 36.4526
Issuance of fund reservation commitments.
(a) Any builder or sponsor proposing to construct one or more dwellings in an area designated as eligible for direct loans may apply for a commitment for the reservation of direct loan funds to be used for the making of loans to eligible veterans for the purchase or construction of such dwellings. Such commitment may be issued on such conditions as the Department of Veterans Affairs determines to be proper in the particular case and will be valid for a period of 3 months;
Provided,
That the Department of Veterans Affairs may, for good and sufficient reasons, extend the period of the commitment. No commitment shall be issued unless the builder or sponsor shall have paid an amount equivalent to 2 percent of the funds being reserved, which amount shall be nonrefundable. The commitment shall be nontransferable except with the written approval of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(b) Notwithstanding that direct loan funds may be available for reservation when issuance of a reservation commitment is requested by a builder or sponsor, the Department of Veterans Affairs may withhold issuance of such commitment in any case in which it determines that the experience or technical qualifications of the builder in respect to home construction are not acceptable, or that other factors bearing on the likelihood of the success of the proposed project are such as to justify withholding issuance of a fund reservation commitment.
[23 FR 2340, Apr. 10, 1958]
§ 36.4527
Direct housing loans to Native American veterans on trust lands.
(a) The Secretary may make a direct housing loan to a Native American veteran if:
(1) The Secretary has entered into a memorandum of understanding with respect to such loans with the tribal organization that has jurisdiction over the veteran; or
(2) The tribal organization that has jurisdiction over the veteran has entered into a memorandum of understanding with any department or agency of the United States with respect to such loans and the memorandum complies with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3762(a))
(3) The memorandum is in effect when the loan is made and will remain in effect until the maturity of the subject loan.
(b)(1) Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, each memorandum of understanding entered into by the Secretary with a tribal organization shall provide for the following:
(i) That each Native American veteran who is under the jurisdiction of the tribal organization and to whom the Secretary makes a direct loan under this section
(A) Holds, possesses, or acquires using the proceeds of the loan a meaningful interest in a lot and/or dwelling that is located on trust land; and
(B) Will purchase, construct, or improve a dwelling on the lot using the proceeds of the loan.
(ii) That each Native American veteran obtaining a direct loan under this section will convey to the Secretary by an appropriate instrument the interest referred to in paragraph (A) as security for the direct loan or, if the laws of the tribal organization do not allow the veteran to convey the meaningful interest to the Secretary, the memorandum of understanding may authorize the tribe to serve as Trustee for the Secretary for purposes of protecting the interest of the Secretary as lender.
(iii) That the tribal organization and each Native American veteran obtaining a direct loan under this section will permit the Secretary or his or her designee to enter upon the trust land of that organization or veteran for the purposes of carrying out such actions as the Secretary or his or her designee determines may be necessary:
(A) To evaluate the advisability of the loan; and
(B) To monitor any purchase, construction, or improvements carried out using the proceeds of the loan.
(C) To protect the improvements from vandalism and the elements,
(D) To make property inspections in conjunction with loan servicing, financial counseling, foreclosure, acquisition, management, repair, and resale of the secured interest.
(iv) That the tribal organization has established standards and procedures that authorize the grantee to legally establish the interest conveyed by a Native American veteran pursuant to subsection (B) and terminate all interest of the veteran in the land and improvements, including:
(A) Procedures for foreclosing the loan in the event of a default;
(B) Procedures for acquiring possession of the veteran's interest in the property; and
(C) Procedures for the resale of the property interest and/or the dwelling purchased, constructed, or improved using the proceeds of the loan.
(v) That the tribal organization agrees to such other terms and conditions with respect to the making of direct loans to Native American veterans under the jurisdiction of the tribal organization as the Secretary and the tribal organization may negotiate in order to ensure that direct loans made under this section are made in a responsible and prudent manner.
(2) The Secretary, or his or her designee, may only enter into a memorandum of understanding with a tribal organization under this section if the Secretary, or designee, determines that the memorandum provides for standards and procedures necessary to reasonably protect the financial interests of the United States.
(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, and notwithstanding the provisions of section 36.4503 of this title, the principal amount of any loan made under this section may not exceed $80,000. The original principal amount of any loan made under this section shall not exceed an amount which bears the same ratio to $80,000 as the amount of the guaranty to which the veteran would be entitled under 38 U.S.C. 3710 at the time the loan is made bears to $36,000.
(2) The Secretary may make loans which exceed the amount specified in
paragraph (c)(1) of this section in geographic areas in which the Secretary has determined that housing costs are significantly higher than average housing costs nationwide. The Secretary shall determine the maximum loan amounts in such areas. The original principal amount of any such loan shall not exceed an amount which bears the same ratio to the maximum loan amount established by the Secretary as the amount of the guaranty to which the veteran would be entitled under 38 U.S.C. 3710 at the time the loan is made bears to $36,000.
(3) Loans made under this section shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary after considering yields on comparable mortgages in the secondary market, including bid and ask prices on mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA).
(4) The minimum requirements for planning, construction, improvement, and general acceptability relating to any direct loan made under this section shall be consistent with the administrative property standards established for loans made or guaranteed under title 38, U.S.C., chapter 37.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 36.4504(b), for loans made under this section, the Native American veteran-borrower shall pay the following loan closing costs to the parties indicated:
(1) A loan fee of 1.25 percent of the total loan amount (2 percent for Reservists who qualify under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 3701(b)(5)) to the Department of Veterans Affairs. All or part of such fee may be paid in cash at loan closing or all or part of the fee may be included in the loan without regard to the reasonable value of the property or the maximum loan amount. In computing the fee, the Department of Veterans Affairs will disregard any amount included in the loan to enable the borrower to pay such fee.
(2) The fee described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall not be collected from a veteran who is receiving compensation (or who but for the receipt of retirement pay would be entitled to receive compensation) or from a surviving spouse described in § 3701(b)(2) of title 38 U.S.C.
(3) If the Secretary designates a third party to process the loan package on VA's behalf, a processing fee to that third party not to exceed $300 plus the actual cost of any credit report required.
(4) Costs or expenses normally paid by a purchaser or mortgagee incident to loan closing including but not limited to the following:
(i) Fees of the Department of Veterans Affairs designated appraisers and compliance inspectors;
(ii) Recording fees or other charges incident to recordation;
(iii) That portion of assessments and other similar items for the current year chargeable to the borrower; and
(iv) Hazard insurance premiums, if such insurance is available.
(5) Charges or costs payable by the Native American veteran-borrower, except for the loan fee described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, shall be paid in cash and may not be paid out of the proceeds of the loan. No service or brokerage fee shall be charged against the Native American veteran-borrower by any third party for procuring a direct loan.
(e)(1) The credit underwriting standards of 38 CFR 36.4337 shall apply to loans made under this section except to the extent the Secretary determines that they should be modified on account of the purpose of the program to make available housing to Native American veterans living on trust lands.
(2) The Secretary shall determine the reasonable value of the leasehold or other property interest that will serve as security for a loan made under this section in accordance with § 37.4519, of this chapter, unless the Secretary determines that such requirements are impractical to implement in a geographic area, on particular trust lands, or under circumstances specified by the Secretary.
(f) In connection with the origination of any loan under this section, the Secretary may make advances in cash to provide for repairs, alterations, and improvements and to meet incidental expenses of the loan transaction.
(g) Loans made under this section shall be amortized under a generally recognized plan which provides for
equal monthly installments consisting of principal and interest, except for the final installment, which may not be in excess of two times the regular monthly installment. The limitation on the amount of the final installment shall not apply in the case of any loan extended, ballooned and/or reamortized.
(h) The Secretary may:
(1) Take any action that the Secretary determines to be necessary for the custody, management, and protection of properties and the realization or sale of investments under the VA Native American Direct Loan Program;
(2) Determine any necessary expenses and expenditures and the manner in which such expenses and expenditures shall be incurred, allowed, and paid;
(3) Employ, utilize, and compensate persons, organizations, or departments or agencies (including departments and agencies of the United States) designated by the Secretary to carry out necessary functions, including but not limited to loan processing and servicing activities, appraisals, and property inspections.
(i) Notwithstanding any requirement, condition, or limitation stated in or imposed by any provision of this regulation, the Under Secretary for Benefits, or the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, within the limitations and conditions prescribed by the Secretary, may execute memoranda of understanding, make determinations concerning the maximum direct loan amount as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, and take such supplementary administrative action as may be necessary or appropriate to relieve any undue prejudice to a debtor, or other person, which might otherwise result, provided such action shall not impair the vested rights of any person affected thereby. If such a requirement, condition, or limitation is of an administrative or procedural nature, such action may be taken by any employee authorized to act under paragraph (j) of this section.
(j)(1) Except as hereinafter provided, each employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs appointed to, or otherwise lawfully filling, any position designated in paragraph (j)(2) of this section is hereby delegated authority, within the limitations and conditions prescribed by law, to exercise the powers and functions of the Secretary with respect to the making of loans and the rights and liabilities arising therefrom, including, but not limited to the collection or compromise of amounts due, in money or other property, the extension, rearrangement, or sale of loans, and the management and disposition of secured or unsecured notes and other property. In connection with direct loans made and held by the Department of Veterans Affairs, such designated employees may take any action which they are authorized to consent to or approve in respect to guaranteed loans under § 36.4342. Incidental to the exercise and performance of the powers and functions hereby delegated, each such employee is authorized to execute and deliver (with or without acknowledgment) for, and on behalf of, the Secretary such certificates, forms, conveyances, and other instruments as may be appropriate in connection with the acquisition, ownership, management, sale, transfer, assignment, encumbrance, rental, or other disposition of real or personal property or of any right, title, or interest therein, including, but not limited to, contracts of sale, installment contracts, deeds, leases, bills of sale, assignments, and releases; and to approve disbursements to be made for any purpose authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 37.
(2) Designated positions:
Under Secretary for Benefits
Deputy Under Secretary for Benefits
Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service
Director, Medical and Regional Office Center
Director, VA Regional Office and Insurance Center
Director, Regional Office
Loan Guaranty Officer
Assistant Loan Guaranty Officer
The authority hereby delegated to employees of the positions designated in this paragraph may, with the approval of the Under Secretary for Benefits, be redelegated.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize any such employee to exercise the authority vested in the Secretary under 38 U.S.C. 501(a) or 3703(a)(2) or to sue or enter appearance for and on behalf of the Secretary
or confess judgment against the Secretary in any court without the Secretary's prior authorization.
(4) Each Regional Office, Regional Office and Insurance Center, and Medical and Regional Office Center shall maintain and keep current a cumulative list of all employees of that Office or Center who, since May 1, 1980, have occupied the positions of Director or Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Officer, and Assistant Loan Guaranty Officer. This list will include each employee's name, title, date the employee assumed the position, and the termination date, if applicable, of the employee's tenure in such position. The list shall be available for public inspection and copying at the Regional Office, or Center, during normal business hours.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3761-3764)
[58 FR 59660, Nov. 10, 1993, as amended at 68 FR 6627, Feb. 10, 2003; 86 FR 51276, Sept. 15, 2021]
§ 36.4528
Vendee loan origination fee.
(a) In addition to the loan fee required pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3729, if any, the Secretary may, in connection with the origination of a vendee loan, charge a borrower a loan origination fee not to exceed one-and-a-half percent of the loan amount.
(b) All or part of such fee may be paid in cash at loan closing or all or part may be included in the loan. The Secretary will not increase the loan origination fee because the borrower chooses to include such fee in the loan amount financed.
(c) In no event may the total fee agreed upon between the Secretary and the borrower result in an amount that will cause the loan to be designated as a high-cost mortgage as defined in 15 U.S.C. 1602(bb) and 12 CFR part 1026.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2041, 3720, 3733)
[82 FR 35904, Aug. 2, 2017]
§ 36.4529
Vendee loan post-origination fees.
(a) The Secretary may charge a borrower the following reasonable fees, per use, following origination, in connection with the servicing of any vendee loan:
(1) Processing assumption fee for the transfer of legal liability of repaying the mortgage when the individual assuming the loan is approved. Such fee will not exceed $300, plus the actual cost of the credit report. If the assumption is denied, the fee will not exceed the actual cost of the credit report;
(2) Processing subordination fee, not to exceed $350, to ensure that a modified vendee loan retains its first lien position;
(3) Processing partial release fee, not to exceed $350, to exclude collateral from the mortgage contract once a certain amount of the mortgage loan has been paid;
(4) Processing release of lien fee, not to exceed $15, for the release of an obligor from a mortgage loan in connection with a division of real property;
(5) Processing payoff statement fee, not to exceed $30, for a payoff statement showing the itemized amount due to satisfy a mortgage loan as of a specific date;
(6) Processing payment by phone fee, not to exceed $12, when a payment is made by phone and handled by a servicing representative; and
(7) Processing payment by phone fee, not to exceed $10, when a payment is made by phone and handled through an interactive voice response system, without contacting a servicing representative.
(b) The specific fees to be charged on each account may be negotiated between the Secretary and the borrower. The Secretary will review the maximum fees under paragraph (a) of this section bi-annually to determine that they remain reasonable.
(c) The Secretary may charge a borrower reasonable fees established in the loan instrument, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Property inspection fees;
(2) Property preservation fees;
(3) Appraisal fees;
(4) Attorneys' fees;
(5) Returned-check fees;
(6) Late fees; and
(7) Any other fee the Secretary determines reasonably necessary for the protection of the Secretary's investment.
(d) Any fee included in the loan instrument and permitted under paragraph (c) of this section would be based on the amount customarily charged in the industry for the performance of the service in the particular area, the status of the loan, and the characteristics of the affected property.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2041, 3720, 3733)
[82 FR 35904, Aug. 2, 2017]
§ 36.4530
Vendee loan other fees.
(a) In addition to the fees that may be charged pursuant to §§ 36.4528 and 36.4529 and the statutory loan fee charged pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 3729, the borrower may be required to pay third-party fees for services performed in connection with a vendee loan.
(b) Examples of the third party fees that may be charged in connection with a vendee loan include, but are not limited to:
(1) Termite inspections;
(2) Hazard insurance premiums;
(3) Force-placed insurance premiums;
(4) Courier fees;
(5) Tax certificates; and
(6) Recorder's fees.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2041, 3720, 3733)
[82 FR 35904, Aug. 2, 2017]

# Subpart E—Sale of Loans, Guarantee of Payment, and Flood Insurance
§ 36.4600
Sale of loans, guarantee of payment.
(a) Whenever loans are sold by the Department of Veterans Affairs, they will be clearly identified as loans sold with or without recourse.
(b) The payment of all loans sold with recourse shall be guaranteed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(c) Wherever the term “holder” appears in this section it shall mean the purchaser of a loan sold by the Secretary and any subsequent transferee or assignee of such loan. The holder of each loan sold subject to guaranty shall be deemed to have agreed with the Secretary as follows:
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 3720):
(1) To furnish the Secretary with notice of default within 60 days after a loan has become two full installments in default.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 3720)
(2) To maintain on the real estate a lien of the dignity assigned or transferred to the purchaser by the Secretary.
(3) To maintain insurance in an amount sufficient to protect the security against risks or hazards to which it may be subjected to the extent customary in the locality, and to apply the proceeds of loss payments to the loan balance or the restoration of the security, as the holder may in the holder's discretion deem proper. Flood insurance will be required on any building or personal property securing a loan at any time during the term of the loan that such security is located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as having special flood hazards and in which flood insurance has been made available under the National Flood Insurance Act, as amended. The amount of flood insurance must be at least equal to the lesser of the outstanding principal balance of the loan or the maximum limit of coverage available for the particular type of property under the National Flood Insurance Act, as amended. The notice requirements of 38 CFR 36.4709 shall apply to loans sold pursuant to this section.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a, 4104a)
(4) To obtain a consideration equal to the fair market value of any real estate released from the first lien securing the loan, except where the loan will be paid in full, and to apply the entire consideration in reduction of the principal balance of the loan.
(5) To maintain the tax and insurance account as provided for in the loan instruments and to pay accrued taxes, special assessments, ground or water rents and premiums on fire or other insurance properly chargeable to the tax and insurance account.
(6) To submit to the Secretary notice of any suit or action or other legal or equitable proceeding to which the holder is a party (including a copy of every procedural paper filed on behalf of the
holder or served on the holder), brought on or in connection with a loan sold under this section or involving title to, or other lien on, the property securing the loan, within the time that would be required if the Secretary were a party to the proceeding.
(7) To submit to the Secretary for prior approval any proposal to recast or extend the repayment terms of the loan.
(8) To take no action to accelerate the indebtedness or terminate the debtor's interest in the property without the prior approval of the Secretary.
(9) To make advances only for the maintenance and repairs reasonably necessary for the preservation of the security, or for the payment of accrued taxes, special assessments, ground or water rents, premiums on fire or other insurance against loss or damage to the property, or for other purposes approved in advance by the Secretary.
(10) To furnish the Secretary prompt notice of the cancellation of any repurchase endorsement or notice on the note or bond upon the payment in full of any loan sold pursuant to this section or of the release of the Secretary from liability to repurchase the loan.
(11) To maintain adequate accounting records and to provide the Secretary with such data relating to the loan as the Secretary may request incident to the Secretary's determination of the amount payable in connection with a request for the repurchase of the loan.
(12) To service the loans properly in accordance with established practices.
(13) To permit the Secretary to inspect, examine or audit at reasonable times and places the records of loans which are subject to repurchase under this section.
(14) To sell any loan to the Secretary for the amount specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section upon request of the Secretary if the loan is six (6) full installments or more in default.
(15) To dispose of partial payments in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. A partial payment is a remittance on a loan in default of any amount less than the full amount due under the terms of the loan and security instruments at the time the remittance is tendered; a default is a failure of a borrower to comply with the terms of a loan agreement.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(15)(ii) of this section, or upon the express waiver of the Secretary, the mortgage holder shall accept any partial payment and either apply it to the mortgagor's account or identify it with the mortgagor's account and hold it in a special account pending disposition. When partial payments held for disposition aggregate a full monthly installment, including escrow, they shall be applied to the mortgagor's account.
(ii) A partial payment may be returned to the mortgagor, within 10 calendar days from date of receipt of such payment, with a letter of explanation only if one or more of the following conditions exist:
(
a
) The property is wholly or partially tenant-occupied and rental payments are not being remitted to the holder for application to the loan account;
(
b
) The payment is less than one full monthly installment, including escrows and late charge, if applicable, unless the lesser payment amount has been agreed to under a written repayment plan;
(
c
) The payment is less than 50 percent of the total amount then due, unless the lesser payment amount has been agreed to under a written repayment plan;
(
d
) The payment is less than the amount agreed to in a written repayment plan;
(
e
) The amount tendered is in the form of personal check and the holder has previously notified the mortgagor in writing that only cash or certified remittances are acceptable;
(
f
) A delinquency of any amount has continued for at least 6 months since the account first became delinquent and no written repayment plan has been arranged.
(
g
) The loan has been submitted to the Department of Veterans Affairs for repurchase;
(
h
) The lien position of the security instrument would be jeopardized by acceptance of the partial payment.
(iii) A failure by the holder to comply with the provisions of this paragraph
may result in a deduction from the repurchase price pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3720)

# Note:
In any instance in which the holder desires Department of Veterans Affairs prior approval to a proposed action the holder may submit the facts to the Loan Guaranty Officer as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.
(16) To obtain and forward a current credit report(s) on the debtor(s) to the Secretary when requesting that the Secretary repurchase the loan.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1) and 3720)
(d) The Secretary's guaranty liability under this section shall consist of and be limited solely to liability to repurchase the loan from the holder thereof whenever,
(1) The debtor is in default by reason of nonpayment of not less than two full installments and default has continued for three months or more on the date the holder submits its written request for repurchase by the Secretary; or
(2) The property securing the loan has been abandoned by the debtor; or
(3) The debtor has failed to comply with any other covenant or obligation of the loan contract and on the date of the holder's request for repurchase such failure has continued for more than 90 days after the holder's demand for compliance with the covenant or obligation, except that if the failure is due to nonpayment of real estate taxes the failure to pay when due has persisted for a continuing period of 180 days; or
(4) The Secretary determines, upon request of the holder to repurchase any loan, that such repurchase is in the best interests of the Government notwithstanding that the account is ineligible for repurchase under paragraphs (d) (1) through (3) of this section.
(e)(1) A cash payment shall be made to the holder upon the repurchase of a loan by the Secretary and shall be an amount equal to the price paid by the purchaser when the loan was sold by the Secretary, less repayments received by the holder which are properly applicable to the principal balance of the loan, plus any advances made for the purposes described in paragraph (c)(9) of this section, but no payments shall be made for accrued unpaid interest, except that with respect to loans sold by the Secretary after July 15, 1970, payment will be made for unpaid accrued interest from the date of the first uncured default to the date of the claim for repurchase, but not in excess of interest for 120 days. If, however, there has been a failure of any holder to comply with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section the Secretary shall be entitled to deduct from the repurchase price otherwise payable such amount as the Secretary determines to be necessary to restore the Secretary to the position the Secretary would have occupied upon repurchase of the loan in the absence of any such failure. Incident to the repurchase by the Secretary, the holder will pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the balance, if any, remaining in the tax and insurance account.
(2) The holder shall be deemed to have received as trustee for the benefit of the Secretary any amounts received on account of the loan indebtedness subsequent to submitting its request to repurchase and shall pay such amounts to the Department of Veterans Affairs upon the assignment and delivery of the note, bond and security instruments to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(3) The holder may be reimbursed for the cost of a current credit report(s) on the debtor(s) which is (are) forwarded to the Secretary along with the request for repurchase and for any other costs or expenses incurred which are approved in advance by the Secretary as being necessary to protect the Government's interest.
(f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary shall be released from liability and shall not be obligated to repurchase any loan in respect to which:
(1) An obligor has been released from personal liability by any act or omission of the holder without the prior approval of the Secretary, except that a holder shall not be under any duty to establish the debt as a valid claim against the assets of the estate of any deceased or bankrupt obligor when
such failure will not impair the validity or effectiveness of the lien securing the loan; or
(2) The holder has instituted foreclosure action against the property securing the loan without the prior approval of the Secretary, and such action has proceeded to the point where the judicial sale or sale under the power in the deed of trust has been held or the owner's interest in the property has been terminated by the holder by strict foreclosure, acceptance of a voluntary deed, or by other liquidation action; or
(3) Any material alteration has been made to the note, bond, security instrument, or installment sale contract after sale and delivery of the instruments by the Secretary to the purchaser.
(g)(1) Each employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs heretofore or hereafter appointed to or lawfully filling, any position designated in paragraph (g)(2) of this section is hereby delegated authority within the limitations and conditions prescribed by law to exercise the powers and functions of the Secretary with respect to the sale, assignment, transfer, and repurchase of loans, including, but not limited to the offering of such loans for sale, the acceptance of purchase offers, the assignment or transfer of notes or bonds and security instruments evidencing the loans sold, granting the prior approval of the Secretary under this section, determining the eligibility of the loans for repurchase and to calculate and pay the sum due the holder upon repurchase of the loan by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(2) Designated positions:
Under Secretary for Benefits.
Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service.
Director, Regional Office.
Director, Medical and Regional Office Center.
Director, VA Center.
Loan Guaranty Officer.
Assistant Loan Guaranty Officer.
(h) No waiver, consent, or approval required or authorized by this section shall be valid unless in writing signed by an employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs authorized in this section to act for the Secretary.
(i) Whenever prior approval or consent of the Secretary is desired in respect to an action to be taken by a holder of a loan, the holder may address such request to the Loan Guaranty Officer in the Regional Office or Center having jurisdiction over the area in which the real estate security is located.
(j) Notwithstanding any requirement, condition, or limitation stated in or imposed by this section concerning the sale and repurchase of loans, the Under Secretary for Benefits, or the Executive Director, Loan Guaranty Service, within the limitations and conditions prescribed by the Secretary may take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to relieve undue prejudice to a holder, debtor or other person, which might otherwise result, as long as such action shall not impair the vested rights of any person affected thereby. If such requirement, condition, or limitation is of an administrative or procedural nature, such action may be taken by an employee authorized to act under paragraph (g) of this section.
(k) This section will apply to all loans sold by the Department of Veterans Affairs after the effective date of this section which were originated or acquired by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under chapter 37, title 38, U.S.C., or title III of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, as amended, except that it shall not apply to direct loans sold pursuant to section 3711(g) of chapter 37, title 38, U.S.C.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c)(1) and 3720)
(Information collection requirements contained in paragraphs (c) and (e) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2900-0840)
[27 FR 2686, Mar. 22, 1962, as amended at 39 FR 7785, Feb. 28, 1974; 44 FR 25839, May 3, 1979; 45 FR 31065, May 12, 1980; 51 FR 4596, Feb. 6, 1986; 52 FR 6548, Mar. 4, 1987; 53 FR 34296, Sept. 6, 1988; 61 FR 28059, June 4, 1996; 62 FR 5532, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4700
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
Sections 36.4700 through 36.4709 of this part are issued pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 4012a, 4104a, 4104b, 4106, and 4128.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of sections 36.4700 through 36.4709 of this part is to
implement the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4129).
(c)
Scope.
Sections 36.4700 through 36.4709 of this part, except for §§ 36.4705 and 36.4707, apply to loans secured by buildings or mobile homes located or to be located in areas determined by the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to have special flood hazards. Sections 36.4705 and 36.4707 apply to loans secured by buildings or mobile homes, regardless of location.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a, 4104a, 4104b, 4106, and 4128)
[62 FR 5532, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4701
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4129).
(b)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(c)
Building
means a walled and roofed structure, other than a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site, and a walled and roofed structure while in the course of construction, alteration, or repair.
(d)
Community
means a State or a political subdivision of a State that has zoning and building code jurisdiction over a particular area having special flood hazards.
(e)
Designated loan
means a loan secured by a building or mobile home that is located or to be located in a special flood hazard area in which flood insurance is available under the Act.
(f)
Director of FEMA
means the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(g)
Mobile home
means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, that is built on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term mobile home does not include a recreational vehicle. For purposes of this part, the term mobile home means a mobile home on a permanent foundation. The term mobile home includes a manufactured home as that term is used in the NFIP.
(h)
NFIP
means the National Flood Insurance Program authorized under the Act.
(i)
Residential improved real estate
means real estate upon which a home or other residential building is located or to be located.
(j)
Servicer
means the person responsible for:
(1) Receiving any scheduled, periodic payments from a borrower under the terms of a loan, including amounts for taxes, insurance premiums, and other charges with respect to the property securing the loan; and
(2) Making payments of principal and interest and any other payments from the amounts received from the borrower as may be required under the terms of the loan.
(k)
Special flood hazard area
means the land in the flood plain within a community having at least a one percent chance of flooding in any given year, as designated by the Director of FEMA.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a, 4104a, 4104b, 4106 and 4128)
[62 FR 5532, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4702
Requirement to purchase flood insurance where available.
In general.
The Secretary shall not make, increase, extend, or renew any designated loan unless the building or mobile home and any personal property securing the loan is covered by flood insurance for the term of the loan. The amount of insurance must be at least equal to the lesser of the outstanding principal balance of the designated loan or the maximum limit of coverage available for the particular type of property under the Act. Flood insurance coverage under the Act is limited to the overall value of the property securing the designated loan minus the value of the land on which the property is located.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a)
[62 FR 5532, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4703
Exemptions.
The flood insurance requirement prescribed by 38 CFR 36.4702 does not apply with respect to:
(a) Any State-owned property covered under a policy of self-insurance
satisfactory to the Director of FEMA, who publishes and periodically revises the list of States falling within this exemption; or
(b) Property securing any loan with an original principal balance of $5,000 or less and a repayment term of one year or less.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a(c))
[62 FR 5533, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4704
Escrow requirement.
If the Secretary requires the escrow of taxes, insurance premiums, fees, or any other charges for a loan secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home that is made, increased, extended, or renewed on or after October 1, 1996, the Secretary shall also require the escrow of all premiums and fees for any flood insurance required under 38 CFR 36.4702. The Secretary, or a servicer acting on behalf of the Secretary, shall deposit the flood insurance premiums on behalf of the borrower in an escrow account. This escrow account will be subject to escrow requirements adopted pursuant to section 10 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 2609) (RESPA), which generally limits the amount that may be maintained in escrow accounts for certain types of loans and requires escrow account statements for those accounts, only if the loan is otherwise subject to RESPA. Following receipt of a notice from the Director of FEMA or other provider of flood insurance that premiums are due, the Secretary, or a servicer acting on behalf of the Secretary, shall pay the amount owed to the insurance provider from the escrow account by the date when such premiums are due.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a(d))
[62 FR 5533, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4705
Required use of standard flood hazard determination form.
(a)
Use of form.
The Secretary shall use the standard flood hazard determination form developed by the Director of FEMA (as set forth in appendix A of 44 CFR part 65) when determining whether the building or mobile home offered as collateral security for a loan is or will be located in a special flood hazard area in which flood insurance is available under the Act. The standard flood hazard determination form may be used in a printed, computerized, or electronic manner.
(b)
Retention of form.
The Secretary shall retain a copy of the completed standard flood hazard determination form, in either hard copy or electronic form, for the period of time the Secretary owns the loan.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4104b)
[62 FR 5533, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4706
Forced placement of flood insurance.
If the Secretary, or a servicer acting on behalf of the Secretary, determines at any time during the term of a designated loan that the building or mobile home and any personal property securing the designated loan is not covered by flood insurance or is covered by flood insurance in an amount less than the amount required under 38 CFR 36.4702, then the Secretary or a servicer acting on behalf of the Secretary, shall notify the borrower that the borrower should obtain flood insurance, at the borrower's expense, in an amount at least equal to the amount required under 38 CFR 36.4702, for the remaining term of the loan. If the borrower fails to obtain flood insurance within 45 days after notification, then the Secretary or a servicer acting on behalf of the Secretary, shall purchase insurance on the borrower's behalf. The Secretary or a servicer acting on behalf of the Secretary, may charge the borrower for the cost of premiums and fees incurred in purchasing the insurance.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a(e))
[62 FR 5533, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4707
Determination fees.
(a)
General.
Notwithstanding any Federal or State law other than the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4129), the Secretary, or a servicer acting on behalf of the Secretary, may charge a reasonable fee for determining whether the building or mobile home securing the loan is located or will be located in a special flood hazard area. A determination fee may also include, but is
not limited to, a fee for life-of-loan monitoring.
(b)
Borrower fee.
The determination fee authorized by paragraph (a) of this section may be charged to the borrower if the determination:
(1) Is made in connection with a making, increasing, extending, or renewing of the loan that is initiated by the borrower;
(2) Reflects the Director of FEMA's revision or updating of floodplain areas or flood-risk zones;
(3) Reflects the Director of FEMA's publication of a notice or compendium that:
(i) Affects the area in which the building or mobile home securing the loan is located; or
(ii) By determination of the Director of FEMA, may reasonably require a determination whether the building or mobile home securing the loan is located in a special flood hazard area; or
(4) Results in the purchase of flood insurance coverage by the Secretary or a servicer acting on behalf of the Secretary, on behalf of the borrower under 38 CFR 36.4706.
(c)
Purchaser or transferee fee.
The determination fee authorized by paragraph (a) of this section may be charged to the purchaser or transferee of a loan in the case of the sale or transfer of the loan.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4012a(h))
[62 FR 5533, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4708
Notice of special flood hazards and availability of Federal disaster relief assistance.
(a)
Notice requirement.
When the Secretary makes, increases, extends, or renews a loan secured by a building or a mobile home located or to be located in a special flood hazard area, the Secretary shall mail or deliver a written notice to the borrower and to the servicer in all cases whether or not flood insurance is available under the Act for the collateral securing the loan.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The written notice must include the following information:
(1) A warning, in a form approved by the Director of FEMA, that the building or the mobile home is or will be located in a special flood hazard area;
(2) A description of the flood insurance purchase requirements set forth in section 102(b) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4012a(b));
(3) A statement, where applicable, that flood insurance coverage is available under the NFIP and may also be available from private insurers; and
(4) A statement whether Federal disaster relief assistance may be available in the event of damage to the building or mobile home caused by flooding in a Federally declared disaster.
(c)
Timing of notice.
The Secretary shall provide the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section to the borrower within a reasonable time before the completion of the transaction, and to the servicer as promptly as practicable after the Secretary provides notice to the borrower and in any event no later than the time the Secretary provides other similar notices to the servicer concerning hazard insurance and taxes. Notice to the servicer may be made electronically or may take the form of a copy of the notice to the borrower.
(d)
Record of receipt.
The Secretary shall retain a record of the receipt of the notices by the borrower and the servicer for the period of time the Secretary owns the loan.
(e)
Alternate method of notice.
Instead of providing the notice to the borrower required by paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary may obtain satisfactory written assurance from a seller or lessor that, within a reasonable time before the completion of the sale or lease transaction, the seller or lessor has provided such notice to the purchaser or lessee. The Secretary shall retain a record of the written assurance from the seller or lessor for the period of time the Secretary owns the loan.
(f)
Use of prescribed form of notice.
The Secretary will be considered to be in compliance with the requirement for notice to the borrower of this section
by providing written notice to the borrower containing the language presented in appendix A to this part within a reasonable time before the completion of the transaction. The notice presented in appendix A to this part satisfies the borrower notice requirements of the Act.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4104a)
[62 FR 5533, Feb. 6, 1997]
§ 36.4709
Notice of servicer's identity.
(a)
Notice requirement.
When the Secretary makes, increases, extends, renews, sells, or transfers a loan secured by a building or mobile home located or to be located in a special flood hazard area, the Secretary shall notify the Director of FEMA (or the Director's designee) in writing of the identity of the servicer of the loan. The Director of FEMA has designated the insurance provider to receive the Secretary's notice of the servicer's identity. This notice may be provided electronically if electronic transmission is satisfactory to the Director of FEMA's designee.
(b)
Transfer of servicing rights.
The Secretary shall notify the Director of FEMA (or the Director's designee) of any change in the servicer of a loan described in paragraph (a) of this section within 60 days after the effective date of the change. This notice may be provided electronically if electronic transmission is satisfactory to the Director of FEMA's designee. Upon any change in the servicing of a loan described in paragraph (a) of this section, the duty to provide notice under this paragraph (b) shall transfer to the transferee servicer.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4104a)
[62 FR 5534, Feb. 6, 1997]

# Subpart F—COVID-19 Recovery Measures

# Source:
86 FR 28708, May 28, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 36.4800
Applicability.
This subpart applies to all loans guaranteed by VA, to the extent such loans are affected by the COVID-19 national emergency.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
§ 36.4801
Definitions.
The following definitions of terms apply to this subpart:
Alternative to foreclosure
means an alternative to foreclosure for which the Secretary may pay an incentive under § 36.4319. These alternatives include compromise sale (sometimes called a short sale) and deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
COVID-19 forbearance
means any forbearance of scheduled monthly guaranteed loan payments, granted to a veteran under section 4022 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (Public Law 116-136). It can also include any forbearance of scheduled monthly guaranteed loan payments, granted to a veteran for a financial hardship due, directly or indirectly, to the COVID-19 national emergency.
COVID-19 indebtedness
means the dollar amount the veteran is obligated to pay under the guaranteed loan terms, but that is not collected during a COVID-19 forbearance.
Guaranteed loan
means a loan guaranteed under chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code.
Loss-mitigation option
means a loss-mitigation option for which the Secretary may pay an incentive under § 36.4319. These options include a repayment plan, special forbearance, and loan modification.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, or any employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) authorized to act in the Secretary's stead.
Servicer
means, for the purposes of this subpart, the holder, servicer, or servicing agent, as defined in § 36.4301. The terms can apply jointly or severally, or jointly and severally.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
§ 36.4802
General purpose of the COVID-19 Veterans Assistance Partial Claim Payment program.
The COVID-19 Veterans Assistance Partial Claim Payment program is a temporary program to help veterans who have suffered a COVID-19 financial hardship. Notwithstanding the requirements elsewhere in this part regarding
payment of a guaranty claim or refunding a loan, VA may assist a veteran exiting a COVID-19 forbearance by purchasing from the servicer the veteran's COVID-19 indebtedness. Such a purchase is called a partial claim payment. In exchange for VA's partial claim payment on behalf of the veteran, the veteran must agree to repay the Secretary, in the amount of such partial claim payment, upon loan terms established by the Secretary.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
§ 36.4803
General requirements of the COVID-19 Veterans Assistance Partial Claim Payment program.
The following general requirements must be met before the Secretary will allow for participation in the COVID-19 Veterans Assistance Partial Claim Payment program:
(a) The loan for which a partial claim payment is requested must be a guaranteed loan that was either—
(1) Current or less than 30 days past due on March 1, 2020; or
(2) Made on or after March 1, 2020;
(b) The veteran on whose behalf VA will pay a partial claim payment both received a COVID-19 forbearance and missed at least one scheduled monthly payment;
(c) There remains unpaid at least one scheduled monthly payment that the veteran did not make while under a COVID-19 forbearance;
(d) The veteran indicates that the veteran can resume making scheduled monthly payments, on time and in full, and that the veteran occupies, as the veteran's residence, the property securing the guaranteed loan for which the partial claim payment is requested; and
(e) The veteran executes, in a timely manner, all loan documents necessary to establish an obligation to repay the Secretary for the partial claim payment.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0889)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
[86 FR 28708, May 28, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 46983, Aug. 23, 2021]
§ 36.4804
Partial claim payment as a home retention option.
(a) The Veterans Assistance Partial Claim Payment program is designed to address the financial hardships due, directly or indirectly, to the COVID-19 national emergency. A servicer may therefore use the partial claim payment option, even in cases where other home retention options are feasible, provided the partial claim payment option is in the veteran's financial interest.
(b) If the veteran notifies the servicer that the veteran does not want to retain ownership of the property securing the guaranteed loan, the servicer may immediately proceed to offering an alternative to foreclosure.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
§ 36.4805
Terms of the partial claim payment.
(a) In order for a partial claim payment to be payable, the servicer must submit to the Secretary, not later than 120 days after the date the veteran exits the COVID-19 forbearance, a request for such payment, as prescribed in § 36.4807.
(b) The amount of the partial claim payment that VA will pay to the servicer, as calculated under paragraph (e) of this section, shall not exceed 30 percent of the unpaid principal balance of the guaranteed loan. For the purposes of this paragraph (b), the unpaid principal balance of the guaranteed loan means such balance as of the date the veteran entered into a COVID-19 forbearance.
(c) VA will pay only one partial claim payment per guaranteed loan.
(d) VA will pay only one partial claim payment per veteran.
(e)(1) Because VA will pay only one partial claim payment per guaranteed loan, and only one partial claim payment per veteran, a servicer must, when calculating the amount of partial claim payment to be paid by VA to the servicer, include the full amount of indebtedness that is necessary to bring the guaranteed loan current.
(2) To bring the guaranteed loan current, servicers must include the full COVID-19 indebtedness, comprising—
(i) All scheduled but missed monthly payments of principal and interest; and
(ii) As applicable, all scheduled but missed monthly escrow payments for real estate taxes and insurance premiums, or where the guaranteed loan documents do not provide for monthly escrowing, all payments the servicer made to real estate tax authorities and insurance providers, on the veteran's behalf, during the COVID-19 forbearance.
(3) Also in bringing the guaranteed loan current, servicers must include—
(i) All scheduled monthly payments (comprising principal, interest, and escrow payments for real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due within 31 days of the date the servicer provides to the veteran the note and security instrument described in § 36.4806;
(ii) If applicable, all scheduled monthly payments (comprising principal, interest, and escrow payments for real estate taxes and insurance premiums) that were missed on or after March 1, 2020, but before the veteran was granted the COVID-19 forbearance; and
(iii) The actual amount of recording fees, recording taxes, or other charges levied by the recording authority, that must be paid in order to record the security instrument described in § 36.4806.
(4) Except for amounts identified in paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section, servicers shall not include any amounts (
e.g.,
fees, penalties, or interest) beyond the amounts scheduled or calculated as if the veteran made all contractual payments on time and in full under the terms of the guaranteed loan.
(5) Nothing in this section shall preclude a veteran from making an optional payment or a servicer from waiving a veteran's indebtedness, such that the amount of partial claim payment would not exceed the 30 percent cap described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(6) If the servicer miscalculates the partial claim amount, resulting in an overpayment to the servicer, the amount of such overpayment shall constitute a liability of the servicer to the United States. The servicer must remit the overpaid amount immediately to VA.
(7) If the servicer miscalculates the partial claim amount, resulting in underpayment (
i.e.,
an amount insufficient to bring the guaranteed loan current), the servicer must waive the difference.
(8) Servicers shall not include any amounts for a monthly payment that is scheduled to be paid on a date that is more than 31 days after the servicer provides to the veteran the note and security instrument described in § 36.4806.
(f) The servicer must prepare a note and security instrument in favor of the “Secretary of Veterans Affairs, an Officer of the United States”. The name of the incumbent Secretary should not be included unless State law requires naming a real person.
(1) The note must be consistent with the terms described in § 36.4806 and include all borrowers who are obligated on the guaranteed loan; and
(2) The security instrument must include all persons (borrowers, as well as non-borrowers) who hold a title interest in the property securing the guaranteed loan.
(g) Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, all loan documents must be fully executed not later than 90 days after the veteran exits the COVID-19 forbearance.
(h) The servicer must record the security instrument timely, as prescribed in § 36.4807.
(i) The servicer must not charge, or allow to be charged, to the veteran any fee in connection with the COVID-19 Veterans Assistance Partial Claim Payment program.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0889)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
[86 FR 28708, May 28, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 46983, Aug. 23, 2021]
§ 36.4806
Terms of the assistance to the veteran.
(a) If a veteran chooses to accept VA's assistance (
i.e.,
a partial claim payment to the servicer, on the veteran's behalf), the veteran, and all co-borrowers on the guaranteed loan, must execute a note and security instrument in favor of the “Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, an Officer of the United States”. The name of the incumbent Secretary should not be included unless State law requires naming a real person.
(b) Specific terms of the note and security instrument shall include the following:
(1) The amount to be repaid to the Secretary, by the veteran, is the amount calculated under § 36.4805(e);
(2) Repayment in full is required immediately upon—
(i) The veteran's transfer of title to the property; or
(ii) The refinancing or payment in full otherwise of the guaranteed loan with which the partial claim payment is associated.
(3) A veteran may make payments for the subordinate loan, in whole or in part, without charge or penalty. If the veteran makes a partial prepayment, there will be no changes in the due date unless VA agrees in writing to those changes.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0889)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
[86 FR 28708, May 28, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 46983, Aug. 23, 2021]
§ 36.4807
Application for partial claim payment.
(a) The servicer must provide VA with the original note required by § 36.4805. Not later than 180 days following the date the security instrument, required by § 36.4805, is fully executed, the servicer must provide VA with the original security instrument and evidence that the servicer recorded such instrument. If the recording authority causes a delay, the servicer may request an extension of time, in writing, from VA.
(b) Servicers must report a partial claim event to VA through VA's existing electronic loan servicing system within seven days of the date the veteran returns to the servicer the executed note required by § 36.4805, but not later than 120 days after the date the veteran exits the COVID-19 forbearance.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 2900-0021 and 2900-0889)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
[86 FR 28708, May 28, 2021, as amended at 86 FR 46984, Aug. 23, 2021]
§ 36.4808
No effect on the servicing of the guaranteed loan.
(a) Servicers must continue to service the guaranteed loan in accordance with subpart B of this part.
(b) The liability of the United States for any guaranteed loan shall decrease or increase pro rata with any decrease or increase of the amount of the unpaid portion of the guaranteed loan. A partial claim payment does not affect the guaranty percentage established at the time the guaranteed loan was made.
(c) Receipt of a partial claim payment shall not eliminate a servicer's option under 38 U.S.C. 3732 to convey to the Secretary the security for the guaranteed loan.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
§ 36.4809
Expiration of the COVID-19 Veterans Assistance Partial Claim Payment program.
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary will not accept a request for a partial claim payment after the date that is 180 days after the date the COVID-19 national emergency ends under the National Emergencies Act, 50 U.S.C.161.
(b) If a veteran's COVID-19 forbearance does not end until after the date described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary shall accept a request for a partial claim payment, provided that such request is submitted to the Secretary not later than 120 days after the date the veteran exits the COVID-19 forbearance.
(c) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Secretary will not accept a request for a partial claim payment after October 28, 2022.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703(c), 3720, 3732)
§ 36.4810
Oversight of the COVID-19 Veterans Assistance Partial Claim Payment program.
(a) Subject to notice and opportunity for a hearing, whenever the Secretary finds with respect to a partial claim payment that any servicer has failed to maintain adequate loan accounting records, or to demonstrate proper ability to service loans adequately or to exercise proper credit judgment or has willfully or negligently engaged in practices otherwise detrimental to the interest of veterans or of the Government, the Secretary may refuse either temporarily or permanently to guarantee or insure any loans made by such servicer and may bar such servicer from servicing or acquiring guaranteed loans.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, but subject to § 36.4328, the Secretary will not refuse to pay a guaranty or insurance claim on a guaranteed loan theretofore entered into in good faith between a veteran and such servicer.
(c) The Secretary may also refuse either temporarily or permanently to guarantee or insure any loans made by a lender or holder suspended, debarred, denied, or otherwise restricted from participation in FHA's insurance programs pursuant to a determination of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0515)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 3703, 3704(d), 3720)
Pt. 36, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 36—Sample Form of Notice of Special Flood Hazards and Availability of Federal Disaster Relief Assistance
We are giving you this notice to inform you that:
The building or mobile home securing the loan for which you have applied is or will be located in an area with special flood hazards. The area has been identified by the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as a special flood hazard area using FEMA's Flood Insurance Rate Map or the Flood Hazard Boundary Map for the following community: ________. This area has at least a one percent (1%) chance of a flood equal to or exceeding the base flood elevation (a 100-year flood) in any given year. During the life of a 30-year mortgage loan, the risk of a 100-year flood in a special flood hazard area is 26 percent (26%).
Federal law allows a lender and borrower jointly to request the Director of FEMA to review the determination of whether the property securing the loan is located in a special flood hazard area. If you would like to make such a request, please contact us for further information.
____ The community in which the property securing the loan is located participates in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Federal law will not allow us to make you the loan that you have applied for if you do not purchase flood insurance. The flood insurance must be maintained for the life of the loan. If you fail to purchase or renew flood insurance on the property, Federal law authorizes and requires us to purchase the flood insurance for you at your expense.
• Flood insurance coverage under the NFIP may be purchased through an insurance agent who will obtain the policy either directly through the NFIP or through an insurance company that participates in the NFIP. Flood insurance also may be available from private insurers that do not participate in the NFIP.
• At a minimum, flood insurance purchased must cover the lesser of:
(1) the outstanding principal balance of the loan; or
(2) the maximum amount of coverage allowed for the type of property under the NFIP.
Flood insurance coverage under the NFIP is limited to the overall value of the property securing the loan minus the value of the land on which the property is located.
• Federal disaster relief assistance (usually in the form of a low-interest loan) may be available for damages incurred in excess of your flood insurance if your community's participation in the NFIP is in accordance with NFIP requirements.
____ Flood insurance coverage under the NFIP is not available for the property securing the loan because the community in which the property is located does not participate in the NFIP. In addition, if the non-participating community has been identified for at least one year as containing a special flood hazard area, properties located in the community will not be eligible for Federal disaster relief assistance in the event of a Federally-declared flood disaster.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4104a)
[62 FR 5534, Feb. 6, 1997]
Pt. 38

# PART 38—NATIONAL CEMETERIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
Sec.
38.600
Definitions.
38.601
Advisory Committee on Cemeteries and Memorials.
38.603
Gifts and donations.
38.617
Prohibition of interment or memorialization of persons who committed certain Federal or State crimes.
38.618
Findings concerning commission of a capital crime or certain sex offenses where a person has not been convicted due to death or flight to avoid prosecution.
38.619
Requests for interment, committal services or memorial services, and funeral honors.
38.620
Persons eligible for burial.
38.621
Disinterments.
38.622
Reconsideration of prior interment and memorialization decisions.
38.628
Allowance for caskets and urns for unclaimed remains of veterans.
38.629
Outer burial receptacles.
38.630
Burial headstones and markers; medallions.
38.631
Memorial headstones and markers.
38.632
Emblems of belief.
38.633
Group memorial monuments.
38.634
Commemorative urns and plaques.

# Veterans Legacy Grants Program
38.710
Purpose and use of grant funds.
38.715
Definitions.
38.720
Grants—general.
38.725
Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO).
38.730
Applications.
38.735
Additional factors for deciding applications.
38.740
Scoring and selection.
38.745
Disposition of applications.
38.750
Withdrawal of grant application.
38.755
Grant agreement.
38.760
Payments under the grant.
38.765
Recipient reporting requirements.
38.770
Recovery of funds by VA.
38.775
Compliance review requirements.
38.780
Financial management.
38.785
Record retention and access.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 107, 501, 512, 531, 2306, 2400, 2402, 2403, 2404, 2407, 2408, 2411, 7105.

# Source:
70 FR 4769, Jan. 31, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.600
Definitions.
(a) The following definitions apply to this part:
Appropriate State official
means a State attorney general or other official with statewide responsibility for law enforcement or penal functions.
Clear and convincing evidence
means that degree of proof which produces in the mind of the fact-finder a firm belief regarding the question at issue.
Convicted
means a finding of guilt by a judgment or verdict or based on a plea of guilty, by a Federal or State criminal court.
Federal capital crime
means an offense under Federal law for which a sentence of imprisonment for life or the death penalty may be imposed.
Interment
means the burial or entombment of casketed or cremated remains, including the placement of cremated remains in a columbarium niche.
Life imprisonment
means a sentence of a Federal or State criminal court directing confinement in a penal institution for life.
Memorialization
means any action taken to honor the memory of a deceased individual.
Personal representative
means a family member or other individual who has identified himself or herself to the National Cemetery Administration as the person responsible for making decisions concerning the interment of the remains of or memorialization of a deceased individual.
State capital crime
means, under State law, the willful, deliberate, or premeditated unlawful killing of another human being for which a sentence of imprisonment for life or the death penalty may be imposed.
(b) Other terms not defined in paragraph (a) of this section may be defined within and be applicable to other sections throughout this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2404, 2411)
[86 FR 43097, Aug. 6, 2021; 86 FR 47387, Aug. 25, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 40391, May 10, 2024]
§ 38.601
Advisory Committee on Cemeteries and Memorials.
Responsibilities in connection with Committee authorized by 38 U.S.C. chapter 24 are as follows:
(a) The Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs will schedule the frequency of meetings, make presentations before the Committee, participate when requested by the Committee, evaluate
Committee reports and recommendations and make recommendations to the Secretary based on Committee actions.
(b) The Committee will evaluate and study cemeterial, memorial and burial benefits proposals or problems submitted by the Secretary or Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, and make recommendations as to course of action or solution. Reports and recommendations will be submitted to the Secretary for transmission to Congress.
§ 38.603
Gifts and donations.
(a) Gifts and donations will be accepted only after it has been determined that the donor has a clear understanding that title thereto passes to, and is vested in, the United States, and that the donor relinquishes all control over the future use or disposition of the gift or donation, with the following exceptions:
(1) Carillons will be accepted with the condition that the donor will provide the maintenance and the operator or the mechanical means of operation. The time of operation and the maintenance will be coordinated with the superintendent of the national cemetery.
(2) Articles donated for a specific purpose and which are usable only for that purpose may be returned to the donor if the purpose for which the articles were donated cannot be accomplished.
(3) If the donor directs that the gift is donated for a particular use, those directions will be carried out insofar as they are proper and practicable and not in violation of Department of Veterans Affairs policy.
(4) When considered appropriate and not in conflict with the purpose of the national cemetery, the donor may be recognized by a suitable inscription on those gifts. In no case will the inscription give the impression that the gift is owned by, or that its future use is controlled by, the donor. Any tablet or plaque, containing an inscription will be of such size and design as will harmonize with the general nature and design of the gift.
(b) The Under Secretary of Memorial Affairs, or his designee, may solicit gifts and donations, which include monetary donations, in-kind goods and services, and personal property, or authorize the use of their names, the name of the Secretary, or the name of the Department of Veterans Affairs by an individual or organization in any campaign or drive for donation of money or articles to the Department of Veterans Affairs for the purpose of beautifying, or for the benefit of, one or more national cemeteries.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 2407.
[70 FR 4769, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 81 FR 44795, July 11, 2016]
§ 38.617
Prohibition of interment or memorialization of persons who committed certain Federal or State crimes.
(a)
Persons prohibited.
The interment in a national cemetery under control of the National Cemetery Administration of the remains of any person, or memorialization of such person, shall not take place absent a good faith effort by the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, or his or her designee, to determine whether such person is barred from receipt of such benefits because the individual for whom interment or memorialization is sought is:
(1) A person identified to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs by the United States Attorney General, prior to approval of interment or memorialization, as an individual who has been convicted of a Federal capital crime, and whose conviction is final, other than a person whose sentence was commuted by the President.
(2) A person identified to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs by an appropriate State official, prior to approval of interment or memorialization, as an individual who has been convicted of a State capital crime, and whose conviction is final, other than a person whose sentence was commuted by the Governor of a State.
(3) A person found under procedures specified in § 38.618 to have committed a Federal or State capital crime but avoided conviction of such crime by reason of unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution.
(4) A person identified to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, by the United States Attorney General, in the
case of a Federal crime, or by an appropriate State official, in the case of a State crime, as an individual who has been convicted of a Federal or State crime causing the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901,
et seq.
); who, for such crime, is sentenced to a minimum of life imprisonment or to a period of 99 years or more; and whose conviction is final (other than a person whose sentence was commuted by the President or Governor of a State).
(5) A person found, under procedures specified in § 38.618, to have committed a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901
et seq.
) but avoided conviction of such crime by reason of unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution.
(b)
Notice.
The prohibition referred to in paragraphs (a)(3) and (5) of this section is not contingent on receipt by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or any other VA official of notice from any Federal or State official.
(c)
Receipt of notification.
The Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs is delegated authority to receive from the United States Attorney General and appropriate State officials on behalf of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the notification referred to in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (4) of this section.
(d)
Decision where notification previously received.
Upon receipt of a request for interment or memorialization, where the Secretary of Veterans Affairs has received the notification referred to in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (4) of this section with regard to the deceased, the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, or his or her designee, will make a decision on the request for interment or memorialization pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 2411.
(e)
Inquiry.
(1) Upon receipt of a request for interment or memorialization, where the Secretary of Veterans Affairs has not received the notification referred to in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (4) of this section with regard to the deceased, but the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, or his or her designee, has reason to believe that the deceased may have been convicted of a Federal or State capital crime or sex offense as referred to in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (4) of this section, the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, or his or her designee, will initiate an inquiry to either:
(i) The United States Attorney General, requesting notification of whether the deceased has been convicted of a Federal capital crime or sex offense as referred to in paragraph (a)(1) or (4) of this section; or
(ii) An appropriate State official, requesting notification of whether the deceased has been convicted of a State capital crime or sex offense as referred to in paragraph (a)(2) or (4) of this section.
(2) The Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, or his or her designee, will defer decision on whether to approve interment or memorialization until after a response is received from the Attorney General or appropriate State official.
(f)
Decision after inquiry.
Where an inquiry has been initiated under paragraph (e) of this section, the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, or his or her designee, will make a decision on the request for interment or memorialization pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 2411 upon receipt of the notification requested, unless the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, or his or her designee, initiates an inquiry pursuant to § 38.618(a).
(g)
Notice of decision.
Written notice of a decision under paragraph (d) or (f) of this section will be provided by the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, or his or her designee, to the personal representative of the deceased, along with written notice of appellate rights in accordance with § 19.25 of this title. This notice of appellate rights will include notice of the opportunity to file a notice of disagreement with the decision of the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, or his or her designee. Action following receipt of a notice of disagreement with a denial of eligibility for interment or memorialization
under this section will be in accordance with §§ 19.26 through 19.38 of this title.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 512, 2411, 7105)
[70 FR 4769, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 35352, June 23, 2008; 84 FR 5954, Feb. 25, 2019; 89 FR 31638, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 38.618
Findings concerning commission of a capital crime or certain sex offenses where a person has not been convicted due to death or flight to avoid prosecution.
(a)
Inquiry.
With respect to a request for interment or memorialization, if a cemetery director has reason to believe that a deceased individual who is otherwise eligible for interment or memorialization may have committed a Federal or State capital crime or a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901
et seq.
), but avoided conviction of such crime by reason of unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution, the cemetery director, with the assistance of the VA district counsel, as necessary, will initiate an inquiry seeking information from Federal, State, or local law enforcement officials, or other sources of potentially relevant information. After completion of this inquiry and any further measures required under paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, the cemetery director will make a decision on the request for interment or memorialization in accordance with paragraph (b), (e), or (g) of this section.
(b)
Decision approving request without a proceeding or termination of a claim by personal representative without a proceeding.
(1) If, after conducting the inquiry described in paragraph (a) of this section, the cemetery director determines that there is no clear and convincing evidence that the deceased committed a Federal or State capital crime or a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901
et seq.
) of which he or she was not convicted due to death or flight to avoid prosecution, and the deceased remains otherwise eligible, the cemetery director will make a decision approving the interment or memorialization.
(2) If the personal representative elects for burial at a location other than a VA national cemetery, or makes alternate arrangements for burial at a location other than a VA national cemetery, the request for interment or memorialization will be considered withdrawn and action on the request will be terminated.
(c)
Initiation of a proceeding.
(1) If, after conducting the inquiry described in paragraph (a) of this section, the cemetery director determines that there appears to be clear and convincing evidence that the deceased has committed a Federal or State capital crime or a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901
et seq.
) of which he or she was not convicted by reason of unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution, the cemetery director will provide the personal representative of the deceased with a written summary of the evidence of record and a written notice of procedural options.
(2) The notice of procedural options will inform the personal representative that he or she may, within 15 days of receipt of the notice:
(i) Request a hearing on the matter;
(ii) Submit a written statement, with or without supporting documentation, for inclusion in the record;
(iii) Waive a hearing and submission of a written statement and have the matter forwarded immediately to the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs for a finding; or
(iv) Notify the cemetery director that the personal representative is withdrawing the request for interment or memorialization, thereby, closing the claim.
(3) The notice of procedural options will also inform the personal representative that, if he or she does not exercise one or more of the stated options within the prescribed period, the matter will be forwarded to the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs for a finding based on the existing record.
(d)
Hearing.
If a hearing is requested, the Director, Memorial Services Network will conduct the hearing. The purpose of the hearing is to permit the personal representative of the deceased to present evidence concerning whether the deceased committed a crime which would render the deceased ineligible for interment or memorialization in a national cemetery. Testimony at the hearing will be presented under oath, and the personal representative will have the right to representation by counsel and the right to call witnesses. The VA official conducting the hearing will have the authority to administer oaths. The hearing will be conducted in an informal manner and court rules of evidence will not apply. The hearing will be recorded on audiotape and, unless the personal representative waives transcription, a transcript of the hearing will be produced and included in the record.
(e)
Decision of approval or referral for a finding after a proceeding.
Following a hearing or the timely submission of a written statement, or in the event a hearing is waived or no hearing is requested and no written statement is submitted within the time specified:
(1) If the cemetery director determines that it has not been established by clear and convincing evidence that the deceased committed a Federal or State capital crime or a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901
et seq.
) of which he or she was not convicted due to death or flight to avoid prosecution, and the deceased remains otherwise eligible, the cemetery director will make a decision approving interment or memorialization; or
(2) If the cemetery director believes that there is clear and convincing evidence that the deceased committed a Federal or State capital crime or a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901
et seq.
) of which he or she was not convicted due to death or flight to avoid prosecution, the cemetery director will forward a request for a finding on that issue, together with the cemetery director's recommendation and a copy of the record to the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs.
(f)
Finding by the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs.
Upon receipt of a request from the cemetery director under paragraph (e) of this section, the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs will make a finding concerning whether the deceased committed a Federal or State capital crime or a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901
et seq.
) of which he or she was not convicted by reason of unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution. The finding will be based on consideration of the cemetery director's recommendation and the record supplied by the cemetery director.
(g)
Decision after finding.
Upon receipt of notification of the finding of the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, the cemetery director will make a decision on the request for interment or memorialization pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 2411. In making that decision, the cemetery director will be bound by the finding of the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs.
(h)
Notice of decision.
The cemetery director will provide written notice of the finding of the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs and of a decision under paragraph (b), (e)(1), or (g) of this section. With notice of any decision denying a request for interment or memorialization, the cemetery director will provide written notice of appellate rights to the personal representative of the deceased, in accordance with § 19.25 of this title. This will include notice of the opportunity to file a notice of disagreement with the decision of the cemetery director and the finding of the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs. Action following receipt of a notice of disagreement with a denial of eligibility for interment or memorialization under this section will be in accordance with §§ 19.26 through 19.38 of this title.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 512, 2411)
[70 FR 4769, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 31638, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 38.619
Requests for interment, committal services or memorial services, and funeral honors.
(a)
Interment requests.
A personal representative, as defined in § 38.600, may request interment of an eligible decedent in a national cemetery by contacting the National Cemetery Scheduling Office (NCSO) at 1-800-535-1117.
(1)
Required information.
VA will request the following information from the decedent's personal representative at the time of the request for interment to allow VA to schedule the interment for the decedent:
(i) Documentation of the decedent's eligibility for national cemetery interment. If needed, VA will make reasonable efforts to assist the personal representative in obtaining such documentation;
(ii) Preferred date and time for the interment;
(iii) Whether a committal service is requested (a committal service is not required);
(iv) Whether the remains are in a casket or urn. For cremated remains, the personal representative will be advised to present a certificate of cremation or other documentation sufficient to identify the decedent at the time of interment.
(v) The size of the casket or urn.
(vi) The contact information for the personal representative.
(vii) Whether a private vault will be provided to the national cemetery or a government-furnished grave liner is required.
(viii) Whether the personal representative intends to have funeral honors during the committal service, if the decedent is a veteran.
(ix) Other relevant information necessary to establish or confirm eligibility of the decedent and/or for cemetery logistics and planning.
(2)
Interment requests pursuant to § 38.620(j).
(i) Consistent with paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, interment requests pursuant to § 38.620(j) must include the following:
(A) For decedents who were naturalized under section 2(1) of the Hmong Veterans Naturalization Act of 2000 (the Act), a copy of the official U.S. Certificate of Naturalization. (VA will verify with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services that the naturalization was pursuant to section 2(1) of the Act.)
(B) For decedents who were otherwise naturalized, a copy of the U.S. Certificate of Naturalization and documentation of the decedent's honorable service with a special guerilla unit or irregular forces operating from a base in Laos in support of the Armed Forces at any time between February 28, 1961, and May 7, 1975.
(C) For decedents who were not naturalized but were lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the U.S., a copy of the official documentation of status as a lawful permanent resident, and documentation of the decedent's honorable service with a special guerilla unit or irregular forces operating from a base in Laos in support of the Armed Forces at any time between February 28, 1961, and May 7, 1975.
(D) Evidence that the decedent resided in the U.S. at the time of death.
(ii) VA will accept the following types of documentation as evidence of service described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (C) of this section:
(A) Original documentation issued by a government agency officially documenting the service type, location, and dates served;
(B) An affidavit of the decedent's superior officer attesting to the type of service, location, and dates served;
(C) Two affidavits from other individuals who were also serving with such a special guerilla unit or irregular forces and who personally knew of the decedent's service; or
(D) Other appropriate evidence that factually documents the service, location, and dates served.
(iii) The DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, is not an appropriate documentation of service for purposes of paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B) and (C) of this section.
(b)
Memorial services requests.
The personal representative may request a memorial service for a decedent who is eligible for interment in a VA national cemetery. Memorial services may be conducted if the decedent's cremated remains will be scattered and will not be interred, or if the remains of the eligible individual are otherwise not
available for interment, or were previously interred without a committal service. The personal representative may request the memorial service by contacting the National Cemetery Scheduling Office (NCSO) at 1-800-535-1117 and providing the following required information:
(1) Documentation of the decedent's eligibility for national cemetery interment. If needed, VA will make reasonable efforts to assist the personal representative in obtaining such documentation;
(2) Preferred date and time for the memorial service;
(3) The contact information for the personal representative;
(4) Whether the personal representative intends to have funeral honors services during the memorial service, if the decedent is a veteran;
(5) Other relevant information necessary to establish or confirm eligibility of the decedent and/or for cemetery logistics and planning.
(c)
Content of committal or memorial services.
VA will respect and defer to the expressed wishes of the personal representative for the content and conduct of a committal or memorial service, including the display of religious or other symbols chosen by the family, the use of all appropriate public areas, and the selection of funeral honors providers, provided that the safety and security of the national cemetery and its visitors are not adversely affected.
(d)
Location of services.
Committal or memorial services at VA national cemeteries will be held in committal shelters located away from the gravesite to ensure accessibility and visitor safety, unless the cemetery director determines that a committal shelter is not available for logistical reasons, or the cemetery director approves a request from the personal representative for a gravesite service. A request for a gravesite service may be approved by the cemetery director if:
(1) The service is requested by the decedent's personal representative for religious reasons; and
(2) The request is made sufficiently prior to the scheduled committal service to ensure the gravesite is accessible; and
(3) The cemetery director has sufficient staffing resources for the gravesite service, and
(4) The site can be safely accessed on the day of the service.
(e)
Witnessing interment without additional services.
When scheduling the interment, the decedent's personal representative may request to witness the interment of the decedent's remains without additional services at the committal shelter. Approval of a request for witness-only interment is at the discretion of the cemetery director, and may be made only if:
(1) The timing of the request provides sufficient time to ensure the gravesite is accessible, and;
(2) The site can be safely accessed on the day of the interment. This determination may require limiting the number of individuals who may witness the interment and other logistics, such as distance from the gravesite, as the cemetery director finds necessary.
(f)
Funeral honors
—(1)
List of organizations providing funeral honors.
Each cemetery director will maintain a list of organizations that will, upon request, provide funeral honors at the cemetery at no cost to the family. Each list must include DoD funeral honors contacts. Non-DoD funeral honors providers who want to be included on the list must make a request to the cemetery director and meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(5) of this section.
(2)
Request required.
Funeral honors will be provided at a committal or memorial service for an eligible individual only if requested by the decedent's personal representative. When scheduling a committal or memorial service for a veteran or other eligible individual who served in the U.S. armed forces, the NCSO will make available to the personal representative the list of available funeral honors providers, as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, for the cemetery where interment or services are to be scheduled. The decedent's personal representative may choose any funeral honors provider(s) on the list provided by VA, and/or any other organization that provides funeral honors services.
(3)
Agreement.
Any agreement to provide funeral honors is exclusively between the organization(s) providing funeral honors and the decedent's personal representative. The composition of a funeral honors detail, as well as the specific content of the ceremony provided during a committal or memorial service is dependent on available resources of the providing organization(s). The Department of Defense (DoD) is responsible for determining eligibility for funeral honors provided by a DoD funeral honors detail. If funeral honors are provided by a combined detail that includes one or more funeral honors providers, all providers must provide services as requested by the personal representative.
(4)
Requirements for all funeral honors providers.
All organizations performing funeral honors at VA national cemeteries, including DoD organizations and any provider selected by the personal representative that is not on the list of providers provided by VA under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, must:
(i) Provide to the cemetery director the name and contact information of a representative for the organization who is accountable for funeral honors activities; and
(ii) Comply with VA security, safety, and law enforcement regulations under 38 CFR 1.218; and
(iii) Maintain and operate any equipment in a safe manner consistent with VA and DoD policies and regulations; and
(iv) Not solicit for or accept donations on VA property except as authorized under 38 CFR 1.218(a)(8).
(5)
Additional requirements for non-DoD funeral honors providers.
Non-DoD funeral honors providers, including any provider selected by the personal representative that is not on the list of providers provided by VA under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, must certify that:
(i) They will comply with the requirements in subparagraphs (f)(4) of this section;
(ii) They are conducting activities on federal property as an independent entity, not as an agent or employee of VA, unless registered as a VA volunteer;
(iii) Members of the organization who will conduct the funeral honors have completed training on funeral honors tasks and the safe use of funeral honors equipment; and
(iv) The funeral honors will be provided in accordance with the agreement in paragraph (f)(3) of this section between the personal representative and the funeral honors provider.
(g)
Public areas.
The cemetery director and cemetery staff will allow access to and use of appropriate public areas of the national cemetery by national cemetery visitors, as well as to families and funeral honors providers for service preparations, contemplation, prayer, mourning, or reflection, so long as the safety and security of the national cemetery and cemetery operations are not adversely affected. Appropriate public areas include, but are not limited to, committal shelters, rest areas, chapels, and benches. The cemetery director will ensure that signs adequately identify restricted or non-public areas in the national cemetery.
(h)
Gifts.
Nothing in this section prohibits or constrains any member of a funeral honors provider, a Veterans Service Organization, or the public from offering a gift or token to a family member of the decedent or any person at a committal or memorial service, provided that no compensation is requested, received, or expected in exchange for such gift or token. Committal or memorial service attendees may accept or decline any such gift or token, and may request that the offeror refrain from making any such offers to the service attendees.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2402, 2404)
[84 FR 38557, Aug. 7, 2019, as amended at 88 FR 51238, Aug. 3, 2023]
§ 38.620
Persons eligible for burial.
The following is a list of those individuals who are eligible for burial in a national cemetery:
(a) Any veteran (which for purposes of this section includes a person who died in the active military, naval, or air service).
(b) Any member of a Reserve component of the Armed Forces, and any member of the Army National Guard or the Air National Guard, whose death
occurs under honorable conditions while such member is hospitalized or undergoing treatment, at the expense of the United States, for injury or disease contracted or incurred under honorable conditions while such member is performing active duty for training, inactive duty training, or undergoing that hospitalization or treatment at the expense of the United States.
(c) Any Member of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps of the Army, Navy, or Air Force whose death occurs under honorable conditions while such member is—
(1) Attending an authorized training camp or on an authorized practice cruise;
(2) Performing authorized travel to or from that camp or cruise; or
(3) Hospitalized or undergoing treatment, at the expense of the United States, for injury or disease contracted or incurred under honorable conditions while such member is—
(i) Attending that camp or on that cruise;
(ii) Performing that travel; or
(iii) Undergoing that hospitalization or treatment at the expense of the United States.
(d) Any person who, during any war in which the United States is or has been engaged, served in the armed forces of any government allied with the United States during that war, whose last such service terminated honorably, and who was a citizen of the United States at the time of entry on such service and at the time of his or her death.
(e) The spouse, surviving spouse, minor child, or unmarried adult child of a person eligible under paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), or (g) of this section. For purposes of this section—
(1) A surviving spouse includes a surviving spouse who had a subsequent remarriage;
(2) A minor child means an unmarried child under 21 years of age, or under 23 years of age if pursuing a full-time course of instruction at an approved educational institution; and
(3) An unmarried adult child means a child who became permanently physically or mentally disabled and incapable of self-support before reaching 21 years of age, or before reaching 23 years of age if pursuing a full-time course of instruction at an approved educational institution.
(f) Such other persons or classes of persons as may be designated by the Secretary.
(g) Any person who at the time of death was entitled to retired pay under chapter 1223 of title 10, United States Code, or would have been entitled to retired pay under that chapter but for the fact that the person was under 60 years of age.
(h) Any person who:
(1) Was a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States at the time of their death; and
(2) Resided in the United States at the time of their death; and
(3) Either was a—
(i) Commonwealth Army veteran or member of the organized guerillas—a person who served before July 1, 1946, in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, while such forces were in the service of the Armed Forces of the United States pursuant to the military order of the President dated July 26, 1941, including organized guerilla forces under commanders appointed, designated, or subsequently recognized by the Commander in Chief, Southwest Pacific Area, or other competent authority in the Army of the United States, and who died on or after November 1, 2000; or
(ii) New Philippine Scout—a person who enlisted between October 6, 1945, and June 30, 1947, with the Armed Forces of the United States with the consent of the Philippine government, pursuant to section 14 of the Armed Forces Voluntary Recruitment Act of 1945, and who died on or after December 16, 2003.
(i)(1) Any biological or legally adoptive parent who dies on or after October 13, 2010, and whose deceased child:
(i) Is a veteran who dies on or after October 7, 2001, and
(A) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, dies as the direct result of hostile action with the enemy, while in combat, while in transit to or from a combat mission if the cause of death is directly related to hostile action, or while hospitalized or
undergoing treatment at the expense of the United States for injury incurred during combat; or
(B) Is killed mistakenly or accidentally by friendly fire that was directed at a hostile force or what was thought to be a hostile force; or
(C) Died from a training-related injury while performing authorized training activities in preparation for a combat mission;
(ii) Is interred in a national cemetery; and
(iii) Has no spouse or child who is buried, or surviving spouse or child who, upon death, may be eligible for burial, in a national cemetery under paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) A parent is not eligible for burial if the veteran dies due to the elements, a self-inflicted wound, combat fatigue, or a friendly force while the veteran was in an absent-without-leave, deserter, or dropped-from-rolls status or was voluntarily absent from a place of duty.
(3)(i) A parent may be buried only within the veteran child's gravesite.
(ii) No more than two parents are eligible for burial per deceased veteran child.
(4) Parent burial eligibility is subject to a determination by the Secretary that there is available space within the veteran's gravesite.
(j) Any individual who:
(1) Died on or after March 23, 2018; and
(2) Resided in the United States at the time of their death; and
(3) Either:
(i) Was naturalized pursuant to section 2(1) of the Hmong Veterans' Naturalization Act of 2000 (Pub. L. 106-207, 114 Stat. 316; 8 U.S.C. 1423 note); or
(ii) Served honorably with a special guerilla unit or irregular forces operating from a base in Laos in support of the Armed Forces at any time between February 28, 1961, and May 7, 1975; and was, at the time of the individual's death, a citizen of the United States or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States.
(k) The spouse, minor child, and unmarried adult child of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty under conditions other than dishonorable, as shown by a statement from a general court-martial convening authority, at the time of the spouse's or child's death if such death occurs before October 1, 2024. Paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section provide the applicable definitions for “minor child” and “unmarried adult child.”

# Note 1 to § 38.620:
A benefit request pertaining to a decedent whose character of discharge may potentially bar eligibility to that benefit may be referred to the Veterans Benefits Administration for review in accordance with 38 CFR 3.12 (Character of discharge) or other applicable sections.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 107, 501, 2402)
[70 FR 4769, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 77 FR 4678, Jan. 31, 2012; 86 FR 43098, Aug. 6, 2021; 86 FR 52077, Sept. 20, 2021; 88 FR 51238, Aug. 3, 2023]
§ 38.621
Disinterments.
(a) Interments of eligible decedents in national cemeteries are considered permanent and final. Disinterment will be permitted only for cogent reasons and with the prior written authorization of the National Cemetery District Executive Director or Cemetery Director responsible for the cemetery involved. Disinterment from a national cemetery will be approved only when:
(1) A court order or State instrumentality of competent jurisdiction directs the disinterment; or
(2) All living immediate family members of the decedent, and the individual who initiated the interment (whether or not the individual is a member of the immediate family), give their written consent.
(i) If the individual who initiated the interment does not consent, or is not alive to provide consent, or all living immediate family members are not in agreement, anyone seeking disinterment of an eligible decedent must provide VA with an order from a court or State instrumentality of competent jurisdiction to direct the disinterment as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(ii) For purposes of this section, “immediate family members” are defined as surviving spouse, whether or not he or she is or was remarried; all adult children of the decedent; the appointed guardian(s) of minor children; and the appointed guardian(s) of the surviving spouse or of the adult
child(ren) of the decedent. If the surviving spouse and all of the children of the decedent are deceased, the decedent's parents will be considered “immediate family members.”
(b)(1) All requests to disinter remains as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be submitted on VA Form 40-4970, Request for Disinterment, and must include the following information:
(i) A full statement of reasons for the proposed disinterment.
(ii) Notarized statement(s) by all living immediate family members of the decedent, and by the person who initiated the interment (whether or not the individual is a member of the immediate family), that all parties consent to the proposed disinterment.
(iii) A notarized statement by the person requesting the disinterment that those who supplied affidavits comprise all the living immediate family members of the deceased and the individual who initiated the interment.
(2) If the person provides a false certification on VA Form 40-4970, he or she may be subject to penalties, to include fine or imprisonment or both.
(c) Any VA-approved disinterment in this section must be accomplished without expense to the Government.
(The reporting and recordkeeping requirements contained in paragraph (b) of this section have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 2900-0365)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2404)
[87 FR 50575, Aug. 17, 2022]
§ 38.622
Reconsideration of prior interment and memorialization decisions.
(a)
General.
(1) The Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs (USMA) is the appropriate Federal official who may reconsider a prior decision to inter the remains or honor the memory of a person in a national cemetery.
(2) This section sets out the evaluative criteria and procedures for VA to reconsider prior interment and memorialization decisions for decedents who are subsequently found to have committed or to have been convicted of certain criminal acts that would prohibit them from receiving benefits to which they are otherwise entitled.
(b)
Capital crime or sex offense conviction.
(1) Upon written notification from the United States Attorney General or an appropriate State official that a person interred or memorialized in a national cemetery after December 20, 2013, was convicted of a Federal or State capital crime and whose conviction meets the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 2411(b)(1) or (2), respectively, or was convicted of a Federal or State crime causing the person to be a tier III sex offender and meets the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 2411(b)(4), the USMA may, upon reconsideration, decide to disinter the remains or remove the memorial headstone or marker of such person from the cemetery.
(2) If VA has not initially received notification referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but a cemetery director has reason to believe that a person interred or memorialized in a national cemetery after December 20, 2013, may have been convicted of a Federal or State capital crime meeting the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 2411(b)(1) or (2), respectively, or may have been convicted of a Federal or State crime causing the person to be a tier III sex offender and meets the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 2411(b)(4), the cemetery director will initiate an inquiry to the United States Attorney General or appropriate State official for confirmation and provide the results of such inquiry to the USMA in cases where a conviction is confirmed, which will initiate a reconsideration. The USMA will render a decision on disinterment or memorial headstone or marker removal after reviewing the results of the inquiry submitted by the cemetery director.
(c)
Avoidance of conviction due to death or flight.
(1) If a cemetery director has reason to believe that a person interred or memorialized in a national cemetery after December 20, 2013, may have committed a Federal or State capital crime or may have committed a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender under 38 U.S.C. 2411(b)(5), but avoided conviction of such crime by reason of unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution, the cemetery director will initiate an official inquiry seeking information
from Federal, State, or local law enforcement officials, or other sources of potentially relevant information.
(2) If, after conducting the inquiry, the cemetery director determines that there appears to be clear and convincing evidence that the decedent committed a Federal or State capital crime or committed a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender under 38 U.S.C. 2411(b)(5), for which the decedent was not convicted because the decedent was unavailable for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution, the cemetery director will provide this information to the USMA who will decide whether to reconsider the prior decision to inter or memorialize the decedent. If the USMA decides to reconsider the prior interment or memorialization decision, the USMA will provide notice of procedural options and follow the procedures in paragraph (d)(2).
(d)
VA notice of decision.
(1) For cases involving a conviction of a Federal or State capital crime or conviction of a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender under 38 U.S.C. 2411(b)(5), where the USMA decides to disinter or remove a memorial headstone or marker, NCA will provide written notice of that decision to the decedent's next of kin or personal representative. The written notice of decision will be in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 5104 and will include a notice of appellate rights in accordance with 38 CFR 20.200.
(2) In cases in which a cemetery director has reason to believe that a person interred or memorialized in a national cemetery after December 20, 2013, may have committed a Federal or State capital crime, as described in 38 U.S.C. 2411(f)(1) and (2), or may have committed a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender under U.S.C. 2411(b)(5), but avoided conviction of such crime by reason of unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution, should the USMA decide to reconsider the prior interment or memorialization, prior to rendering written notice of final decision, VA will follow the following process:
(i) NCA will provide a notice of procedural options, which will inform the decedent's next of kin or personal representative that VA is reconsidering the prior interment or memorialization of the decedent and that they may, within 15 days of receipt of notice: request a hearing on the matter; submit a written statement, with or without supporting documentation, for inclusion in the record; or waive a hearing and submission of a written statement.
(ii) If a hearing is requested, the District Executive Director will conduct the hearing. The purpose of the hearing is to permit the personal representative of the deceased to present evidence concerning whether the deceased committed a crime that would render the deceased ineligible for interment or memorialization in a national cemetery. Testimony at the hearing will be presented under oath, and the personal representative will have the right to representation by counsel and the right to call witnesses. The VA official conducting the hearing will have the authority to administer oaths. The hearing will be conducted in an informal manner and court rules of evidence will not apply. The hearing will be recorded on audiotape and, unless the personal representative waives transcription, a transcript of the hearing will be produced and included in the record.
(iii) Following a hearing or the timely submission of a written statement, or in the event a hearing is waived or no hearing is requested and no written statement is submitted within the time specified, the USMA will decide whether there is clear and convincing evidence that the decedent committed a Federal or State capital crime or a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender under 38 U.S.C. 2411(b)(5), for which the decedent was not convicted due to the decedent's unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution. If the USMA decides that clear and convincing evidence does not exist, the USMA will notify the next of kin or personal representative that the decedent may remain interred or that the decedent's memorial headstone or marker may remain in the national cemetery. If the USMA decides that clear and convincing evidence exists,
the USMA will provide written notice of the decision to disinter the decedent or remove the decedent's memorial headstone or marker. The written notice of decision will be in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 5104 and will include a notice of appellate rights in accordance with 38 CFR 20.200.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a notice of disagreement with the decision of the USMA must be filed within 60 days from the date of the notice of decision, and the only method of appeal from a notice of decision issued under this section is through review by the Board of Veterans' Appeals. Action following receipt of a notice of disagreement with reversal of an interment or memorialization decision under this section will be in accordance with 38 CFR part 20.
(e)
Disinterment or removal of memorialization.
A decision to disinter the remains or remove a memorial headstone or marker becomes final either by failure of the next of kin or personal representative to appeal the decision or by final disposition of the appeal. In such cases, the cemetery director shall take the following actions:
(1) In the case of disinterment, the cemetery director will contact the next of kin or personal representative to coordinate the transfer of remains from the national cemetery to another location. The next of kin or personal representative will have 30 days to respond to the cemetery director.
(i) If the next of kin or personal representative responds to the notice within the 30-day period, the cemetery director will coordinate a date and time for the disinterment and release of the decedent's remains to the next of kin or personal representative for transport from the national cemetery to a place determined by the next of kin or personal representative. The cemetery director will perform the disinterment. The next of kin or personal representative will bear responsibility and cost for transportation of the remains from the cemetery, including compliance with applicable state laws concerning the disinterment and transport of remains from the national cemetery, and any costs associated with the subsequent disposition of remains.
(ii) If the next of kin or personal representative does not respond to the notice within the 30-day period, indicates refusal to accept the decedent's remains, or fails to appear, the cemetery director will determine a suitable cemetery for the disposition of the decedent's remains and, at government expense, will make all necessary arrangements to disinter, transport, reinter, and mark the grave of the decedent with a non-government headstone or marker within a reasonable time frame. The non-government headstone or marker will include the decedent's name, date of birth, and date of death. The cemetery director will then notify the next of kin or personal representative of the date and time on which the disinterment was performed and the new location of the decedent's remains.
(2) In the case of a memorial headstone or marker, the cemetery director will remove the headstone or marker from the cemetery and notify the next of kin or personal representative of the date on which this action was taken.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 512, 2411)
[89 FR 58069, July 17, 2024]
§ 38.628
Allowance for caskets and urns for unclaimed remains of veterans.
(a) VA will issue a flat-rate allowance, as established in paragraph (d) of this section, to any individual or entity for a casket or urn, purchased by the individual or entity for the burial in a national cemetery or in a veterans' cemetery of a State or Tribal Organization that has received a grant under 38 U.S.C. 2408, of an eligible deceased veteran for whom VA:
(1) Is unable to identify the veteran's next-of-kin; and
(2) Determines that sufficient resources are otherwise unavailable to furnish the casket or urn.
(b) For purposes of satisfying the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, VA will rely entirely on the requesting individual's or entity's certification as required under paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section.
(c) An individual or entity may request an allowance from VA under paragraph (a) of this section by completing and submitting VA Form 40-10088 and supporting documentation, in
accordance with the instructions on the form. Prior to approving issuance of an allowance, VA must find all of the following:
(1) The veteran is eligible for burial in a VA national cemetery or in a veterans' cemetery of a State or Tribal Organization that has received a grant under 38 U.S.C. 2408;
(2) The individual or entity has certified that they cannot identify the veteran's next-of-kin, or that an identified next-of-kin is unwilling or unable to assume responsibility for the deceased veteran's burial arrangements, and that the individual or entity has followed applicable state or local law relating to the disposition of unclaimed remains;
(3) The individual or entity has certified that, to the best of their knowledge, sufficient resources are otherwise unavailable to furnish the casket or urn;
(4) The invoice presented by the individual or entity clearly indicates the purchase price of the casket or urn purchased by the individual or entity; and
(5) The invoice presented by the individual or entity contains information sufficient for VA to determine, in conjunction with a visual inspection, that the casket or urn meets the following standards:
(i) Caskets must be of metal construction of at least 20-gauge thickness, designed for containing human remains, sufficient to contain the remains of the deceased veteran, and include external fixed rails or swing arm handles.
(ii) Urns must be of a durable construction, such as durable plastic, wood, metal, or ceramic, designed to contain cremated human remains, and include a secure closure to contain the cremated remains.
(d) The allowance for a claim received in any calendar year under paragraph (a) of this section is $1,199.00 for a metal casket and $138.00 for an urn of durable material.
(e) VA will make cost-of-living adjustments for the flat-rate casket and urn allowances using the Consumer Price Index (CPI). Each fiscal year, VA will provide a percentage increase (rounded to the nearest dollar) in the casket and urn flat-rate allowances equal to the percentage by which the CPI (all items, United States city average) for the 12-month period (June to June) preceding the beginning of the fiscal year for which the percentage increase is made exceeds the CPI for the 12-month period preceding the 12-month period described in this paragraph (e). VA will only make cost-of-living increases to the flat rate allowances when the CPI has increased.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements under this section under control number 2900-0799.)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2306, 2402, 2411)
[80 FR 19538, Apr. 13, 2015, as amended at 88 FR 42247, June 30, 2023]
§ 38.629
Outer burial receptacles.
(a)
Definitions
—
Outer burial receptacle.
For purposes of this section, an outer burial receptacle means a graveliner, burial vault, or other similar type of container for a casket.
(b)
Purpose.
(1) This section provides for payment of a monetary allowance for an outer burial receptacle for any interment with casketed remains in a VA national cemetery where a privately purchased outer burial receptacle has been used in lieu of a Government-furnished graveliner and, for any interment on or after January 5, 2023, in a cemetery that is the subject of a grant to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408 where a privately purchased outer burial receptacle has been used.
(2) This section also provides for payment of a monetary allowance for outer burial receptacles placed at the time of interment, for burials on or after January 5, 2023, in a cemetery that is the subject of a grant awarded to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408.
(3) This section also provides for reimbursement of the cost of pre-placed outer burial receptacles that are installed as part of construction or expansion of a cemetery that is the subject of a grant awarded on or after January 5, 2023, to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408.
(c)
Subsequent interments.
In burials where a casket already exists in a grave with or without an outer burial
receptacle, subsequent placement of a second casket in an outer burial receptacle will not be permitted in the same grave unless the cemetery director determines that the already interred casket will not be damaged.
(d)
Payment of monetary allowance for privately purchased outer burial receptacles.
(1) VA will pay a monetary allowance for each casket burial in a VA national cemetery where a privately purchased outer burial receptacle was used in lieu of a Government-furnished graveliner. Payment will be made to the person identified in records contained in the National Cemetery Administration (NCA) electronic ordering system as the person who paid for the outer burial receptacle. No application is required to receive payment of this monetary allowance as the payment is processed automatically based on entry in the system.
(2) VA will pay a monetary allowance for each casket burial in a cemetery that is the subject of a grant to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408, where a privately purchased outer burial receptacle was used on or after January 5, 2023. The person who paid for the outer burial receptacle must submit a request for payment of the allowance on the appropriate VA form. The request must be verified by the cemetery director where the burial occurred.
(e)
Payment of monetary allowance for outer burial receptacles placed at time of interment.
(1) VA will pay a monetary allowance for outer burial receptacles placed at the time of interment for burials on or after January 5, 2023, in a cemetery that is the subject of a grant to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408. Such payments may be issued on a quarterly basis and will be paid to the State agency or Tribal organization.
(2) VA will pay the allowance only if a State or Tribal organization submits a request for payment on the appropriate VA form. Requests may be submitted on a quarterly basis for the total number of burials that required an outer burial receptacle in that quarter and for which a fee for the outer burial receptacle was not charged to the decedent's family or other responsible party. Requests for payment under this section for burials that occur from January 5, 2023, through December 31, 2024, must be submitted by December 31, 2025. Requests for payment under this section for burials that occur on or after January 1, 2025, must be submitted within 1 year of interment.
(3) No payment may be made for burials where a fee for the outer burial receptacle was charged to the decedent's family or other responsible party.
(f)
Amount of the monetary allowance.
(1) The monetary allowance will be the average cost, as determined by VA, of Government-furnished graveliners, less the administrative costs incurred by VA in processing and paying the allowance.
(i) The average cost of Government-furnished graveliners will be based upon the actual average cost to the Government of such graveliners during the most recent fiscal year ending prior to the start of the calendar year for which the amount of the allowance will be used. This average cost will be determined by taking VA's total cost during that fiscal year for single-depth graveliners which were procured for placement at the time of interment and dividing it by the total number of such graveliners procured by VA during that fiscal year. The calculation shall exclude both graveliners procured and pre-placed in gravesites as part of cemetery gravesite development projects and all double-depth graveliners.
(ii) The administrative costs incurred by VA will consist of those costs that relate to processing and paying an allowance, as determined by VA, for the calendar year ending prior to the start of the calendar year for which the amount of the allowance will be used.
(2) The amount of the allowance for each calendar year will be published in the “Notices” section of the
Federal Register.
The
Federal Register
notice will also provide, as information, the determined average cost of Government-furnished graveliners and the determined amount of the administrative costs to be deducted.
(g)
Reimbursement for pre-placed outer burial receptacles.
(1) VA will reimburse the cost of outer burial receptacles
that are pre-placed as part of new construction, expansion, or improvement of a cemetery that is the subject of a grant to a State or Tribal organization under 38 U.S.C. 2408 if the grant was awarded on or after January 5, 2023. The reimbursement will be paid to the State or Tribal organization or, if designated by the State or Tribal organization representative, the State or Tribal veterans cemetery for which such project is being carried out, or to any other State or Tribal organization, agency, or instrumentality.
(2) States and Tribal organizations must submit a request for reimbursement of the cost of pre-placed outer burial receptacles using Standard Form 271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs, with supporting documentation. The Director of the Veterans Cemetery Grants Program must review and certify the request for payment. Funds paid under this section for pre-placed outer burial receptacles, as part of an approved establishment, expansion, and improvement project shall be used solely for payment of such outer burial receptacles. As a condition for payment, the representative of the State or Tribal organization must submit to VA an invoice reporting the cost for purchase and delivery of outer burial receptacles.
(h)
Audits.
A State or Tribal organization that seeks reimbursement for the cost of outer burial receptacles under this section will be subject to inspections, audits, and reports in accordance with § 39.122 of this chapter.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2306(d))
[70 FR 4769, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 89 FR 82181, Oct. 10, 2024]
§ 38.630
Burial headstones and markers; medallions.
(a)
Eligibility
—(1)
Unmarked graves.
VA will furnish, when requested under paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, a burial headstone or marker for the unmarked grave of the following individuals:
(i) Any individual buried in a national cemetery or in a military post cemetery. When more than one individual is buried in a single gravesite in a national cemetery, VA will, if feasible, include inscription information for all such individuals on a single headstone or marker, rather than furnishing a separate headstone or marker for each buried individual.
(ii) The following individuals eligible for burial in a national cemetery but who are buried elsewhere, where such graves may be located in any type of non-national cemetery (e.g., state, tribal, private, or local government such as town or city cemetery):
(A) Veterans as described in § 38.620(a).
(B) Members of a Reserve component of the Armed Forces, or members of the Army National Guard or the Air National Guard, whose deaths occurred under the conditions described in § 38.620(b).
(C) Members of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps of the Army, Navy, or Air Force, whose deaths occurred under the conditions described in § 38.620(c).
(D) Individuals who separated from military service and were entitled to retired pay under chapter 1223 of title 10 (10 U.S.C. 12731
et seq.
), as described in and subject to § 38.620(g).
(E) Individuals who served in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, or who served in the New Philippine Scouts, as described in and subject to § 38.620(h).
(F) Individuals who were naturalized pursuant to section 2(1) of the Hmong Veterans' Naturalization Act of 2000, or who served honorably with a special guerilla unit or irregular forces operating from a base in Laos in support of the Armed Forces, as described in and subject to § 38.620(j).
(iii) Soldiers of the Union and Confederate Armies of the Civil War, whose graves may be located in any type of non-national cemetery (e.g., state, tribal, private, or local government cemetery).
(iv) Spouses, surviving spouses, and dependent children, as described in and subject to § 38.620(e) or § 38.620(k), whose graves are located in a veterans' cemetery owned by a State, or a veterans' cemetery owned by a Tribal Organization or on land owned by or held in trust for a Tribal Organization.
(2)
Marked graves.
(i) Subject to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, VA will furnish, when requested under
paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, a burial headstone or marker for the graves of the following individuals who are buried in a non-national cemetery (e.g., state, tribal, private, or local government cemetery), notwithstanding that such graves are already marked by a privately purchased headstone or marker.
(A) Veterans as described in § 38.620(a).
(B) Members of a Reserve component of the Armed Forces, or members of the Army National Guard or the Air National Guard, whose deaths occurred under the conditions described in § 38.620(b).
(C) Members of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps of the Army, Navy, or Air Force whose deaths occurred under the conditions described in § 38.620(c).
(D) Individuals who separated from military service and were entitled to retired pay under chapter 1223 of title 10 (10 U.S.C. 12731
et seq.
), as described in and subject to § 38.620(g).
(E) Individuals who served in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, or who served in the New Philippine Scouts, as described in and subject to § 38.620(h).
(F) Individuals who were naturalized pursuant to section 2(1) of the Hmong Veterans' Naturalization Act of 2000, or who served honorably with a special guerilla unit or irregular forces operating from a base in Laos in support of the Armed Forces, as described in and subject to § 38.620(j).
(ii) An individual described in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section is eligible for a headstone or marker provided under this paragraph (a)(2) if:
(A) The individual died on or after November 1, 1990; or
(B) They were a Medal of Honor recipient and served in the Armed Forces on or after April 6, 1917.
(iii) In lieu of a headstone or marker provided under this paragraph (a)(2), veterans described in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section are eligible for a medallion to be affixed to their privately purchased headstone or marker if they served in the Armed Forces on or after April 6, 1917.
(b)
General
—(1)
Application.
(i) When burial occurs in a cemetery that uses the National Cemetery Administration (NCA) electronic ordering system (e.g., national cemetery, State veterans' cemetery, or military post cemetery), the headstone or marker provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section will be ordered by the applicable cemetery as part of the process of arranging burial.
(ii) When burial occurs in a cemetery that does not use NCA's electronic ordering system (e.g., private or local government cemetery), an applicant, as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, may either:
(A) Request a burial headstone or marker provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section by completing and submitting VA Form 40-1330, Claim for Standard Government Headstone or Marker; or
(B) Request a medallion provided under paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section to be affixed to a privately purchased headstone or marker, by completing and submitting VA Form 40-1330M, Claim for Government Medallion for Placement in a Private Cemetery.
(iii) VA Forms 40-1330 and 40-1330M include application and submission instructions as well as additional information related to emblems of belief, and are accessible through the following links:
https://www.va.gov/vaforms/va/pdf/VA40-1330.pdf,
and
https://www.va.gov/vaforms/va/pdf/VA40-1330M.pdf.
(A) An applicant for a burial headstone or marker for an unmarked grave provided under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for placement in a private cemetery or a local government cemetery, must certify on VA Form 40-1330 that such headstone or marker will be placed on or at the grave for which it is requested.
(B) An applicant for a burial headstone or marker for a marked grave provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, for placement in a private cemetery or a local government cemetery, must certify on VA Form 40-1330 that such headstone or marker will be placed on the grave for which it is requested, or if such placement is not possible or practicable, as close as possible to the grave within the grounds of
the cemetery in which the grave is located.
(C) A representative of a private cemetery or local government cemetery that accepts delivery of a burial headstone or marker provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section must certify on VA Form 40-1330 that placement of the headstone or marker adheres to the policies or guidelines of the cemetery in which the grave is located.
(2)
Styles, types, and inscriptions.
The styles and types of burial headstones and markers provided under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, as well as the inscriptions thereon to include an emblem of belief, will be provided in accordance with VA policy as well as in a manner consistent with 38 U.S.C. 2306(c) and 2404(c).
(i) The styles and types of burial headstones and markers made available for selection, as well as the inscriptions thereon, may be limited in accordance with certain requirements, including but not limited to aesthetic or administrative requirements of the cemetery in which the headstone or marker will be placed.
(ii) The same styles and types of headstones and markers made available for selection by requestors of headstones and markers provided for unmarked graves under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be made available for requestors of headstones or markers for marked graves provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(iii) Upon request under paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, a headstone, marker, or medallion provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section shall signify the deceased's status as a Medal of Honor recipient as applicable.
(iv) If an emblem of belief is requested that is not offered in VA's inventory of images for emblems of belief, additional requirements apply under § 38.632.
(3)
Replacement.
(i) Upon request, VA will replace a Government-furnished burial headstone, marker, or medallion, if the previously furnished headstone, marker, or medallion:
(A) Is damaged beyond repair; or
(B) Has deteriorated to the extent it no longer serves to identify the buried decedent (e.g., identifying elements of an inscription are not legible, such as a decedent's name or a grave number for an unknown decedent), or, in the case of a medallion, no longer serves to identify the buried decedent as a veteran or as a Medal of Honor recipient if applicable; or
(C) Has been stolen or vandalized; or
(D) Is the incorrect style or type for the veteran's era of service; or
(E) Requires changing or adding inscription information for the following reasons:
(
1
) To correct errors in factual information (such as name or date of birth or death) provided to VA as part of the initial application process; or
(
2
) To indicate information related to the deceased's military service that is provided to VA after the initial application process (such as the deceased's posthumous receipt of military awards); or
(
3
) To identify on a single headstone or marker multiple decedents who are each eligible for a headstone or marker and who are buried in the same gravesite in a cemetery, to include identification of a spouse or dependent in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2306(g)(1); or
(
4
) To indicate the deceased's status as a Medal of Honor recipient if applicable, for a headstone or marker provided for a marked grave under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2306(d)(5)(B).
(
5
) For any reason not listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(E)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section, if the request to change or add inscription information is received from the decedent's next of kin as indicated in NCA's records systems, within six months of the initial headstone or marker being provided.
(ii) To the extent practicable, replacement burial headstones, markers, and medallions will be of the same style and type (to include inscription information) as those headstones, markers, or medallions being replaced, except that style, type, or inscription information may differ for replacements if one of the criteria in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(D) or (E) is the reason for replacement.
(iii) Requests to replace Government-furnished burial headstones, markers, or medallions are made as follows:
(A) Through NCA's electronic ordering systems, when the headstone, marker, or medallion to be replaced is located in a cemetery that uses NCA electronic ordering systems; or
(B) By completing and submitting VA Form 40-1330 or VA Form 40-1330M, when the headstone, marker, or medallion to be replaced is located in a cemetery that does not use NCA's electronic ordering systems.
(4)
Limitations.
(i) VA will not pay costs associated with installing a burial headstone or marker provided under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for placement in a non-national cemetery, but VA will deliver such headstone or marker directly to the non-national cemetery where the grave is located or to a receiving agent for delivery to the cemetery.
(ii) VA will not pay costs associated with affixing a medallion provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section to a privately purchased headstone or marker in a non-national cemetery, but VA will deliver such medallion directly to the applicant.
(5)
Ownership, alteration, and disposition.
(i) All Government-furnished headstones, markers, and medallions remain the property of the United States Government in perpetuity and should not be defaced or altered in any way. Knowingly converting Government property to private use (such as using whole or partial headstones or markers in structures or landscaping or offering such items for sale) is a violation of Federal law under 18 U.S.C. 641.
(ii) Under 38 CFR 1.218(b)(5), the destruction, mutilation, defacement, injury, or removal of any monument, gravestone, or other structure within the limits of any national cemetery is prohibited, with an associated fine of $500. Under 18 U.S.C. 1361, willful depredation of any property of the United States (
i.e.,
a headstone or marker in a non-national cemetery) shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment under title 18 of the United States Code.
(iii) When a Government-furnished burial headstone, marker, or medallion is removed from any cemetery, it should be properly disposed. Unless a headstone or marker that has been removed from a cemetery would be maintained by NCA for historic purposes, or in cases of disinterment would be relocated to a different gravesite, such headstones or markers made of stone must be physically broken into small enough pieces to ensure no portion of the inscription is legible and to ensure no part is available for any private, personal, or commercial use, and those made of bronze must be returned to VA for recycling.
(c)
Definitions
—(1)
Applicant.
An applicant for a burial headstone or marker for an eligible deceased individual, or an applicant for a medallion to be affixed to a privately purchased headstone or marker, may be:
(i) A decedent's family member, which includes the decedent's spouse or individual who was in a legal union as defined in 38 CFR 3.1702(b)(1)(ii) with the decedent; a child, parent, or sibling of the decedent, whether biological, adopted, or step relation; and any lineal or collateral descendant of the decedent;
(ii) A personal representative, as defined in § 38.600(a);
(iii) A representative of a congressionally chartered Veterans Service Organization;
(iv) An individual employed by the relevant state or local government whose official responsibilities include serving veterans and families of veterans, such as a state or county veterans service officer;
(v) Any individual who is responsible, under the laws of the relevant state or locality, for the disposition of the unclaimed remains of the decedent or for other matters relating to the interment or memorialization of the decedent; or
(vi) Any individual, if the dates of service of the veteran to be memorialized, or on whose service the eligibility of another individual for memorialization is based, ended prior to April 6, 1917.
(2)
Ascertainable.
Ascertainable means inscribed on the headstone or marker or discoverable from some inscription
on the headstone or marker that corresponds to information that is reasonably accessible by the public (e.g., a corresponding burial ledger at the cemetery, or publicly available burial information accessible on the internet).
(3)
Local government.
Local government means the administrative body of a geographic area that is not a state, such as a county, city, or town.
(4)
Medal of Honor recipient.
Medal of Honor recipient means an individual who is awarded the Medal of Honor under sec. 7271, 8291, or 9271 of title 10 or sec. 2732 of title 14 of the United States Code, or corresponding predecessor provisions.
(5)
Privately purchased and durable headstone or marker.
Privately purchased and durable headstone or marker means a headstone or marker that was not purchased or provided by the Government, and that is made of a material (such as but not limited to stone) that is lasting and not anticipated to unduly degrade under exposure to the environment in which it is placed.
(6)
Unmarked grave.
Unmarked grave means a grave in a cemetery where:
(i) A Government-furnished headstone or marker has not been erected or installed at or by the grave, or the condition of a Government-furnished headstone or marker erected or installed at or by the grave warrants replacement under paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and
(ii) A privately purchased and durable headstone or marker, from which the buried individual's name (if known) is ascertainable:
(A) Has not been erected or installed at or by the grave, or
(B) Is damaged beyond repair; or
(C) Has deteriorated to the extent it no longer serves to identify the buried decedent (e.g., identifying elements of an inscription are not legible); or
(D) Has been stolen or vandalized.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0222)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2306, 2402, 2404, sec. 203(b), Pub. L. 110-157, 121 Stat. 1831)
[86 FR 43098, Aug. 6, 2021; 86 FR 47387, Aug. 25, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 51238, Aug. 3, 2023]
§ 38.631
Memorial headstones and markers.
(a)
Eligibility.
(1) VA will furnish, when requested under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a memorial headstone or marker to commemorate the following individuals whose remains are unavailable:
(i) A veteran (which includes an individual who dies in the active military, naval, or air service), where the headstone or marker may be provided for a national cemetery, a State, local, or private cemetery, a veterans' cemetery owned by a State, or a veterans' cemetery owned by a tribal organization or on land owned by or held in trust for a tribal organization.
(ii) An individual who dies on or after November 11, 1998, who is the spouse or surviving spouse of a veteran (which includes a surviving spouse who had a subsequent remarriage), or the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty under conditions other than dishonorable, as shown by a statement from a general court-martial convening authority, at the time of the spouse's death if such death occurs before October 1, 2024—where the headstone or marker may be provided for a national cemetery, a veterans' cemetery owned by a State, or a veterans' cemetery of a Tribal Organization or on land owned by or held in trust for a Tribal Organization;
(iii) An individual who dies on or after November 11, 1998, who is an eligible dependent child of a veteran, or the eligible dependent child of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty under conditions other than dishonorable, as shown by a statement from a general court-martial convening authority, at the time of the child's death if such death occurs before October 1, 2024—where the headstone or marker may be provided for a national cemetery, a veterans' cemetery owned by a State, or a veterans' cemetery of a Tribal Organization or on land owned by or held in trust for a Tribal Organization—if that dependent child is:
(A) Under the age of 21 years; or
(B) Under the age of 23 years if pursuing a course of instruction at an approved educational institution; or
(C) Unmarried and became permanently physically or mentally disabled and incapable of self-support before reaching the age of 21 years, or before reaching the age of 23 years if pursuing a course of instruction at an approved educational institution.
(2) When VA has furnished a burial headstone or marker under § 38.630(a)(1), VA will, if feasible, add a memorial inscription to that headstone or marker (or provide a replacement headstones or marker to newly include a memorial inscription) rather than furnishing a separate memorial headstone or marker for the surviving spouse or eligible dependent child of such individual, in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2306(g)(1).
(3) When VA has furnished a memorial headstone or marker under paragraph (a)(1) of this section for purposes of commemorating a veteran or an individual who died in the active military, naval, or air service, VA will, if feasible, add a memorial inscription to that headstone or marker (or provide a replacement headstones or marker to newly include a memorial inscription) rather than furnishing a separate memorial headstone or marker for the surviving spouse or eligible dependent child of such individual, in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2306(g)(2).
(b)
General
—(1)
Application.
(i) An applicant, as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, may request a memorial headstone or marker by completing and submitting VA Form 40-1330, Claim for Standard Government Headstone or Marker. VA Form 40-1330 includes application and submission instructions and is accessible through the following link:
https://www.va.gov/vaforms/va/pdf/VA40-1330.pdf.
(ii) A representative of a private cemetery or local government cemetery that accepts delivery of a memorial headstone or marker must certify on VA Form 40-1330 that placement of the headstone or marker adheres to the policies or guidelines of the cemetery in which the grave is located.
(2)
Styles, types, and inscriptions.
The styles and types of memorial headstones and markers provided under this section, as well as the inscriptions thereon to include emblems of belief, will be provided in accordance with VA policy as well as in a manner consistent with 38 U.S.C. 2306(c).
(i) The styles and types of memorial headstones and markers made available for selection, as well as the inscriptions thereon, may be limited in accordance with certain requirements, including but not limited to aesthetic or administrative requirements of a cemetery.
(ii) All inscriptions for memorial headstones and markers must be preceded by the phrase “In Memory Of”.
(iii) If an emblem of belief is requested that is not offered in VA's inventory of images for emblems of belief, additional requirements apply under § 38.632.
(3)
Replacement.
(i) Upon request, VA will replace a Government-furnished memorial headstone or marker, if the previously furnished headstone or marker:
(A) Is damaged beyond repair; or
(B) Has deteriorated to the extent it no longer serves to identify the decedent (e.g., identifying elements of an inscription are not legible, such as a decedent's name); or
(C) Has been stolen or vandalized; or
(D) Is the incorrect style or type for the veteran's era of service; or
(E) Requires changing or adding inscription information for the following reasons:
(
1
) The inscription is not preceded by the phrase “In Memory Of”; or
(
2
) To correct errors in factual information (such as name or date of birth or death) provided to VA as part of the initial application process; or
(
3
) To indicate information related to the deceased's military service that is provided to VA after the initial application process (such as the deceased's posthumous receipt of military awards); or
(
4
) To identify a spouse or dependent in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 2306(g)(2); or
(
5
) For any reason not listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(E)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section, if the request to add or change inscription information is received from the decedent's next of kin as indicated in NCA's records systems, within six months of the headstone or marker initially being provided.
(ii) To the extent practicable, replacement memorial headstones and markers will be of the same style and type (to include inscription information) as those being replaced, except that style, type, or inscription content may differ for replacement headstones and markers if one of the criteria under paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(D) and (E) of this section is the reason for replacement.
(iii) Requests to replace Government-furnished memorial headstones and markers are made as follows:
(A) Through NCA's electronic ordering systems, when the headstone or marker to be replaced is located in a cemetery that uses NCA electronic ordering systems; or
(B) By completing and submitting VA Form 40-1330, when the headstone or marker to be replaced is located in a cemetery that does not use NCA's electronic ordering systems.
(4)
Limitations.
VA will not pay the cost of installing a memorial headstone or marker provided under this section for placement in any cemetery that is not a national cemetery but will deliver the headstone or marker directly to such cemetery or to a receiving agent for delivery to the cemetery.
(5)
Ownership, alteration, and disposition.
(i) All Government-furnished memorial headstones and markers remain the property of the United States Government in perpetuity and should not be defaced or altered in any way. Knowingly converting Government property to private use (such as using whole or partial headstones or markers in structures or landscaping or offering such items for sale) is a violation of Federal law under 18 U.S.C. 641.
(ii) Under 38 CFR 1.218(b)(5), the destruction, mutilation, defacement, injury, or removal of any monument, gravestone, or other structure within the limits of any national cemetery is prohibited, with an associated fine of $500. Under 18 U.S.C. 1361, willful depredation of any property of the United States (
i.e.,
a headstone or marker in a non-national cemetery) shall be punishable by a fine or imprisonment under title 18 of the United States Code.
(iii) When a Government-furnished memorial headstone or marker is removed from any cemetery (due to it warranting replacement under paragraph (b)(3) of this section), it should be properly disposed. Unless a memorial headstone or marker that has been removed from a cemetery would be maintained by NCA for historic purposes, such headstones and markers made of stone must be physically broken into small enough pieces to ensure no portion of the inscription is legible and to ensure no part is available for any private, personal, or commercial use, and those made of bronze must be returned to VA for recycling.
(c)
Definitions
—(1)
Applicant.
An applicant for a memorial headstone or marker, to commemorate an eligible individual under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, must be a member of the decedent's family, which includes the decedent's spouse or individual who was in a legal union as defined in 38 CFR 3.1702(b)(1)(ii) with the decedent; a child, parent, or sibling of the decedent, whether biological, adopted, or step relation; and any lineal or collateral descendant of the decedent.
(2)
Unavailable remains.
An individual's remains are considered unavailable if they:
(i) Have not been recovered or identified;
(ii) Were buried at sea, whether by the individual's own choice or otherwise;
(iii) Were donated to science; or
(iv) Were cremated and the ashes scattered without interment of any portion of the ashes.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 2306, 2402, 2404)
[86 FR 43100, Aug. 6, 2021]
§ 38.632
Emblems of belief.
(a)
General.
This section contains procedures for requesting the inscription of new emblems of belief on Government-furnished headstones and markers.
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1)
Applicant
means the decedent's next-of-kin (NOK), a person authorized in writing by the NOK, or a personal representative authorized in writing by
the decedent to apply for a new emblem of belief for inscription on a Government-furnished headstone or marker.
(2)
Emblem of belief
means an emblem that represents the decedent's religious affiliation or sincerely held religious belief system, or a sincerely held belief system that was functionally equivalent to a religious belief system in the life of the decedent. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, VA will accept as genuine an applicant's statement regarding the sincerity of the religious or functionally equivalent belief system of a deceased eligible individual. The religion or belief system represented by an emblem need not be associated with or endorsed by a church, group or organized denomination. Emblems of belief do not include social, cultural, ethnic, civic, fraternal, trade, commercial, political, professional or military emblems. VA will not accept any emblem that would have an adverse impact on the dignity and solemnity of cemeteries honoring those who served the Nation, including (but not limited to) emblems that contain explicit or graphic depictions or descriptions of sexual organs or sexual activities that are shocking, titillating, or pandering in nature; and emblems that display coarse or abusive language or images.
(3)
Federally-administered cemetery
means a VA National Cemetery, Arlington National Cemetery, the Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, a military post or base cemetery of the Armed Forces, a service department academy cemetery, and a Department of the Interior National Cemetery.
(4)
Headstones or markers
means headstones or markers that are furnished by the Government to mark the grave or memorialize a deceased eligible veteran or eligible family member.
(5)
State veterans cemetery
means a cemetery operated and maintained by a State or territory for the benefit of deceased eligible veterans or eligible family members.
(c)
Application process for new emblems of belief.
When there is an immediate need, and the applicant requests a new emblem of belief for inscription on a new, first Government-furnished headstone or marker for a deceased eligible individual, the following procedures will apply:
If the burial or memorialization of an eligible individual is in a:
The applicant must:
(1) Federally-administered cemetery or a State veterans cemetery that uses the NCA electronic ordering system
(i) Submit a written request to the director of the cemetery where burial is requested indicating that a new emblem of belief is desired for inscription on a Government-furnished headstone or marker; and
(ii) Provide the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section to the NCA Director of Memorial Programs Service.
(2) Private cemetery (deceased eligible veterans only), Federally-administered cemetery, or a State veterans cemetery that does not use the NCA electronic ordering system
(i) Submit a completed VA Form 40-1330 to the NCA Director of Memorial Programs Service, indicating in the REMARKS section of the form that a new emblem of belief is desired; and
(ii) Provide the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section to the NCA Director of Memorial Programs Service.
(d)
Application.
The applicant must identify the deceased eligible individual for whom a request has been made to add a new emblem of belief to those emblems of belief available for inscription on Government-furnished headstones and markers. The application must include the following:
(1) Certification by the applicant that the proposed new emblem of belief represents the decedent's religious affiliation or sincerely held religious belief system, or a sincerely held belief system that was functionally equivalent to a religious belief system in the life of the decedent.
(2) A three-inch diameter digitized black and white representation of the requested emblem that is free of copyright or trademark restrictions or authorized by the owner for inscription on Government-furnished headstones and markers and can be reproduced in a production-line environment in stone or bronze without loss of graphic quality.
(e)
Incomplete application.
If VA determines that an application for a new
emblem of belief is incomplete, VA will notify the applicant in writing of any missing information and that he or she has 60 days to submit such information or no further action will be taken. If the applicant does not submit all required information or demonstrate that he or she has good cause for failing to provide the information within 60 days of the notice, then the applicant will be notified in writing that no further action will be taken on the request for a new emblem.
(f)
Evaluation criteria.
The Director of NCA's Office of Field Programs shall forward to the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs all complete applications, any pertinent records or information, and the Director's recommendation after evaluating whether:
(1) The applicant has demonstrated that there is an immediate need to inscribe the emblem on a new, first, Government-furnished headstone or marker for a deceased eligible individual, unless good cause is shown for an exception;
(2) The applicant has submitted a certification concerning the emblem that meets the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(i) In the absence of evidence to the contrary, VA will accept as genuine an applicant's statement regarding the sincerity of the religious or functionally equivalent belief system of a deceased eligible individual. If a factual dispute arises concerning whether the requested emblem represents the sincerely held religious or functionally equivalent belief of the decedent, the Director will evaluate whether the decedent gave specific instructions regarding the appropriate emblem during his or her life and the Under Secretary will resolve the dispute on that basis.
(ii) In the absence of such instructions, the Under Secretary will resolve the dispute in accordance with the instructions of the decedent's surviving spouse. If the decedent is not survived by a spouse, the Under Secretary will resolve the dispute in accordance with the agreement and written consent of the decedent's living next-of-kin. For purposes of resolving such disputes under this section, next-of-kin means the living person(s) first listed as follows:
(A) The decedent's children 18 years of age or older, or if the decedent does not have children, then
(B) The decedent's parents, or if the decedent has no surviving parents, then
(C) The decedent's siblings.
(3) The emblem meets the definition of an emblem of belief in paragraph (b)(2);
(4) The emblem would not have an adverse impact on the dignity and solemnity of cemeteries honoring those who served the Nation—for example, the emblem cannot contain explicit or graphic depictions or descriptions of sexual organs or sexual activities that are shocking, titillating, or pandering in nature, or display coarse or abusive language or images. A determination that an emblem would have an adverse impact on the dignity and solemnity of cemeteries honoring those who served the Nation may not be made based on the content of the religious or functionally equivalent belief that the emblem represents.
(5) The emblem meets the technical requirements for inscription specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(g)
Decision by the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs.
(1) A decision will be made on all complete applications. A request to inscribe a new emblem on a Government-furnished headstone or marker shall be granted if the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs finds that the request meets each of the applicable criteria in paragraph (f) of this section. In making that determination, if there is an approximate balance between the positive and negative evidence concerning any fact material to making that determination, the Under Secretary shall give the benefit of the doubt to the applicant. The Under Secretary shall consider the Director of NCA's Office of Field Programs' recommendation and may consider information from any source.
(2) If the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs determines that allowing the inscription of a particular proposed emblem would adversely affect the dignity and solemnity of the cemetery environment or that the emblem does not
meet the technical requirements for inscription, the Under Secretary shall notify the applicant in writing and offer to the applicant the option of either:
(i) Omitting the part of the emblem that is problematic while retaining the remainder of the emblem, if this is feasible, or
(ii) Choosing a different emblem to represent the religious or functionally equivalent belief that does not have such an adverse impact.
(3) Applicants will have 60 days from the date of the notice to cure any adverse impact or technical defect identified by the Under Secretary. Only if neither option is acceptable to the applicant, the applicant's requested alternative is also unacceptable, or the applicant does not respond within the 60-day period, will the Under Secretary ultimately deny the application.
(4) If the Under Secretary determines that the request should be denied and that decision is based wholly or partly on information received from a source other than the applicant, then the following procedure will be followed:
(i) A tentative decision denying the request will be prepared;
(ii) Written notice of the tentative decision accompanied by a copy of any information on which the Under Secretary intends to rely will be provided to the applicant;
(iii) The applicant will have 60 days from the date of the written notice specified in subparagraph (ii) to present evidence and/or argument challenging the evidence and/or tentative decision; and
(iv) The Under Secretary will consider the applicant's submission under subparagraph (iii) and will issue a final decision on the request.
(5) The Director, Office of Field Programs, will provide the individual who made the request written notice of the Under Secretary's decision.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2404)
[74 FR 26096, June 1, 2009, as amended at 81 FR 10771, Mar. 2, 2016; 86 FR 43101, Aug. 6, 2021]
§ 38.633
Group memorial monuments.
(a)
Definitions of terms.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply:
(1)
Group
—all the known and unknown dead who perished in a common military event.
(2)
Memorial Monument
—a monument commemorating veterans, whose remains have not been recovered or identified.
(3)
Next of kin
—recognized in order: Surviving spouse; children, according to age; parents, including adoptive, stepparents, and foster parents; brothers or sisters, including half or stepbrothers and stepsisters; grandparents; grandchildren; uncles or aunts; nephews or nieces; cousins; and/or other lineal descendent.
(4)
Documentary evidence
—Official documents, records, or correspondence signed by an Armed Services branch historical center representative attesting to the accuracy of the evidence.
(b) The Secretary may furnish at government expense a group memorial monument upon request of next of kin. The group memorial monument will commemorate two or more identified members of the Armed Forces, including their reserve components, who died in a sanctioned common military event, (e.g., battle or other hostile action, bombing or other explosion, disappearance of aircraft, vessel or other vehicle) while in active military, naval or air service, and whose remains were not recovered or identified, were buried at sea, or are otherwise unavailable for interment.
(c) A group memorial monument furnished by VA may be placed only in a national cemetery in an area reserved for such purpose. If a group memorial monument has already been provided under this regulation or by any governmental body, e.g., the American Battle Monuments Commission, to commemorate the dead from a common military event, an additional group memorial monument will not be provided by VA for the same purpose.
(d) Application for a group memorial monument shall be submitted in a manner specified by the Secretary. Evidence used to establish and determine eligibility for a group memorial monument will conform to paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2403)
[70 FR 4769, Jan. 31, 2005, as amended at 86 FR 43102, Aug. 6, 2021]
§ 38.634
Commemorative urns and plaques.
(a)
General.
(1) In lieu of furnishing a headstone, marker, or medallion under this part, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) will furnish, when requested—
(i) A commemorative urn; or
(ii) A commemorative plaque.
(2) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
(i)
Commemorative urn
means a container that signifies the deceased individual's status as a veteran, in which the individual's cremated remains may be placed at private expense.
(ii)
Commemorative plaque
means a tablet that signifies the deceased individual's status as a veteran.
(3) If VA furnishes a commemorative plaque or a commemorative urn for an individual under this section, VA may not provide for such individual—
(i) A headstone, marker, or medallion; or
(ii) Any burial benefit under 38 U.S.C. 2402.
(4) Any commemorative plaque or commemorative urn furnished under this section shall be the personal property of the applicant.
(5) The Federal Government shall not be liable for any damage to a commemorative plaque or urn furnished under this section that occurs after the date on which the commemorative plaque or urn is furnished. VA will not replace a commemorative plaque or urn unless it was damaged during shipping or contains a manufacturing deficiency or inscription error.
(b)
Eligible individuals to be commemorated.
An eligible individual for purposes of this section is a deceased individual:
(1) Who served in the Armed Forces on or after April 6, 1917;
(2) Who is eligible for, but has not received, a headstone, marker, or medallion under 38 U.S.C. 2306(d) (or would be so eligible but for the date of the death of the individual); and
(3) Whose remains were cremated and not interred (see § 38.600 for definition of interment).
(c)
Application process
—(1)
Applicant.
An applicant for a commemorative plaque or urn must be a member of the veteran's family, which includes the veteran's spouse or individual who was in a legal union as defined in § 3.1702(b)(1)(ii) of this chapter with the veteran; a child, parent, or sibling of the veteran, whether biological, adopted, or step relation; and any lineal or collateral descendant of the veteran.
(2)
Application.
An applicant must submit a completed VA Form 40-1330UP, Claim for Commemorative Urn or Commemorative Plaque for Veteran's Cremains Not Interred in a Cemetery. The National Cemetery Administration will verify the decedent's eligibility for a commemorative plaque or urn. Applicants must certify that they have read a statement about other benefits to which the veteran will lose benefit rights, that the decedent's remains were cremated and are not interred at the time of application, that the applicant is a member of the decedent's family authorized to make decisions about the disposition of the decedent's remains, and that the applicant is in possession of the entirety of the cremains. Other required claim information will include documentation of the decedent's eligibility and the applicant's contact information and mailing address. VA's duty to notify claimants of necessary information or evidence under § 3.159(b) of this chapter and duty to assist claimants in obtaining evidence under § 3.159(c) of this chapter will apply.
[89 FR 40391, May 10, 2024]

# Veterans Legacy Grants Program

# Source:
86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, unless otherwise noted.
§ 38.710
Purpose and use of grant funds.
Sections 38.710 through 38.785 establish the Veterans Legacy Grants Program (VLGP). Under this program, VA may provide grants to eligible entities defined in § 38.715 to:
(a) Conduct research related to national, State, or Tribal Veterans' cemeteries;
(b) Produce educational materials that teach about the history of Veterans interred in national, State, or Tribal Veterans' cemeteries;
(c) Contribute to the extended memorialization of Veterans interred in national, State, or Tribal Veterans' cemeteries by presenting grantee research on national, State, or Tribal Veterans' cemeteries through site hosting and other digital technologies; and,
(d) Promote community engagement with the histories of Veterans interred in national, State, or Tribal Veterans' cemeteries.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note)
§ 38.715
Definitions.
For purposes of this part and any Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO) issued pursuant to this part:
(a)
Applicant
means an eligible entity that submits a VLGP grant application that is announced in a NOFO.
(b)
Community engagement
means strategic interaction with identified groups of people, whether they are connected by geographic location, special interest, or affiliation, to identify and address issues related to the legacy of Veterans.
(c)
Eligible recipient (or entity)
means one of the following:
(1) An institution of higher learning;
(2) A local educational agency;
(3) A non-profit entity that the Secretary determines has a demonstrated history of community engagement that pertains to the projects described in the relevant NOFO;
(4) An educational institution; or
(5) Another recipient (or entity) the Secretary deems appropriate.
(d)
Institution of higher learning (IHL)
means a college, university, or similar institution, including a technical or business school, offering postsecondary level academic instruction that leads to an associate or higher degree if the school is empowered by the appropriate State education authority under State law to grant an associate or higher degree.
(e)
Educational institution
means any public or private elementary school, secondary school, vocational school, correspondence school, business school, junior college, teachers' college, college, normal school, professional school, university, or scientific or technical institution, or other institution furnishing education for adults.
(f)
Local educational agency (LEA)
means any public agency or authority, including a state educational agency, that has administrative control or direction over public elementary or secondary schools under 20 U.S.C. 7801(30). The term would also include any Bureau of Indian Education school, as covered in 20 U.S.C. 7801(30)(C).
(g)
State educational agency (SEA)
means the agency primarily responsible for the State supervision of public elementary schools and secondary schools.
(h)
Non-profit entity
means any organization chartered under 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3).
(i)
Educational materials
means a framework of digital instructional materials relevant to the grade level of K-12 students involved (
e.g.,
lesson plans) that can be used for outreach and other purposes.
(j)
Recipient
means an eligible recipient (or entity) that is awarded a VLGP grant under this part. It does not include a subrecipient or individual that is a beneficiary of the award.
(k)
Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO)
means a formal announcement of the availability of a Federal funding opportunity published in the OMB-designated government-wide website
Grants.gov
(
http://www.grants.gov
) in accordance with § 38.725 and 2 CFR 200.1 and 200.204.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note, 2 CFR 200.1 and 200.204)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107002, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.720
Grants—general.
(a)
Grants.
VA may award VLGP grants to eligible recipients selected under § 38.730 of this part.
(b)
Maximum amounts.
The maximum grant amount to be awarded to each recipient and the total maximum amount for all grants will be specified in the annually published NOFO.
(c)
Number of grants awarded.
The number of grants VA will award will depend on the total amount of grant funding available at VA's discretion and the funding amount awarded to each recipient, which is based on each recipient's proposal.
(d)
Grant is not a course buyout.
The grant funds shall not be used to substitute a class that an instructor is required to teach during an academic year.
(e)
Matching requirement.
VA will determine whether a recipient must provide matching funds as a condition of receiving a VLGP grant as set forth in the NOFO.
(f)
Grant is not Veterans' benefit.
The VLGP grant is not a Veterans' benefit. VA decisions on VLGP applications are final and not subject to the same appeal rights as Veterans' benefits decisions.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.725
Notice of Funding Opportunity (NOFO).
When funds are available for VLGP grants, VA will publish a NOFO at
Grants.gov
(
http://www.grants.gov
). The NOFO will identify:
(a) The location for obtaining VLGP grant applications, including the specific forms that will be required;
(b) The date, time, and place for submitting completed VLGP grant applications;
(c) The estimated total amount of funds available and the maximum funds available to a single grantee;
(d) The minimum number of total points and points per category that an applicant must receive to be considered for a grant and information regarding the scoring process;
(e) Any timeframes and manner for payments under the VLGP grant;
(f) A description of eligible entities or other eligibility requirements necessary to receive the grant; and
(g) Other information necessary for the VLGP grant application process, as determined by VA, including contact information for the office that will oversee the VLGP within VA.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.204)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.730
Applications.
To apply for a grant, an eligible entity must submit to VA a complete application package, as described in the NOFO. Applications will be accepted only through
Grants.gov
(
http://www.grants.gov
). A complete grant application, as further described in the NOFO, includes standard forms specified in the NOFO and the following:
(a)
Project description.
Each project must serve a minimum of one VA national cemetery, State Veterans' cemetery, or Tribal Veterans' cemetery. The applicant must provide a narrative project description that demonstrates the best approach for attaining required results as set forth in the NOFO;
(b)
Project team.
If applicable, the applicant must provide a narrative description of anticipated project team and any work partner(s), including the responsibilities of the principal investigator, the co-principal investigators, and any extramural partner entity;
(c)
Project plan.
The applicant must include a detailed timeline for the tasks outlined in the project description and proposed milestones;
(d)
Expertise and capacity.
The applicant must provide a description of the applicant's ability and capacity to administer the project. This may include evidence of past experience with projects similar in scope as defined by the NOFO, to include descriptions of the engagement model, examples of successful leadership and management of a project of similar scale and budget (or greater), or related work in this field;
(e)
Match.
If specified as a requirement in the NOFO, the applicant must provide evidence of secured cash matching (1:1) funds or of its ability to secure commitments to receive such funds;
(f)
Proposed budget.
The applicant's proposed budget should identify all costs and proposed expenditures, to include additional compensation and honoraria (and to whom); equipment costs; production costs; and travel costs. The applicant must provide a budget that specifies costs and payments, as well as indirect and other relevant costs. The budget will be submitted in a format specified in the NOFO; and
(g)
Additional information.
Any additional information as deemed appropriate by VA and set forth in the NOFO.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control numbers 4040-0004, 4040-0006, 4040-0007, and 4040-0013)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.208)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.735
Additional factors for deciding applications.
(a)
Applicant's history of performance.
VA may consider the applicant's record in managing Federal awards, if a prior recipient of a Federal award, including timeliness of compliance with applicable reporting requirements and conformance to the terms and conditions of any previous Federal award.
(b)
Applicant's financial stability.
Applicants must meet and have maintained standards of financial stability for participation in Federal grant programs.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.206)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.740
Scoring and selection.
(a)
Scoring.
VA will only score complete applications received from eligible applicants by the deadline established in the NOFO. The applications must meet the minimum criteria set forth in § 38.730 and will be scored as specified in the NOFO, as set forth in § 38.725.
(b)
Selection of recipients.
All complete applications will be scored using the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and ranked in order of highest to lowest total score. NOFO announcements may also clarify the selection criteria in paragraph (a) of this section. The relative weight (point value) for each selection will be specified in the NOFO. VA will award any VLGP grant on the primary basis of the scores but will also consider a risk assessment evaluation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.205)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.745
Disposition of applications.
(a)
Disposition of applications.
Upon review of an application and dependent on availability of funds, VA will:
(1) Approve the application for funding, in whole or in part, for such amount of funds, and subject to such conditions that VA deems necessary or desirable;
(2) Determine that the application is of acceptable quality for funding, in that it meets minimum criteria, but disapprove the application for funding because it does not rank sufficiently high in relation to other applications to qualify for an award based on the level of funding available, or for another reason as provided in the decision document; or
(3) Defer action on the application for such reasons as lack of funds or a need for further review.
(b)
Notification of disposition.
VA will notify the applicant in writing of the disposition of the application. A signed grant agreement form, as defined in § 38.755, will be issued to the applicant of an approved application.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.211)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.750
Withdrawal of grant application.
Applicants may withdraw a VLGP application submitted through
Grants.gov
by writing the specified VA point of contact and including rationale for the withdrawal request within a certain number of days as determined in the NOFA.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.204)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.755
Grant agreement.
After a grant is approved for award, VA will draft a grant agreement to be
executed by VA and the recipient. Upon execution of the grant agreement, VA will obligate the grant amount. The grant agreement will provide that the recipient agrees, and will ensure that each subrecipient (if applicable) agrees, to:
(a) Operate the program in accordance with the provisions of §§ 38.710 through
38.785, 2 CFR part 200, and the applicant's VLGP application;
(b) Comply with such other terms and conditions, including recordkeeping and reports for program monitoring and evaluation purposes, as VA may establish in the Terms and Conditions of the grant agreement for purposes of carrying out the VLGP project in an effective and efficient manner; and
(c) Provide additional information that VA requests with respect to:
(1) Program effectiveness, as defined in the Terms and Conditions of the grant agreement;
(2) Compliance with the Terms and Conditions of the grant agreement; and
(3) Criteria for evaluation, as defined in the Terms and Conditions of the grant agreement.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.211)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.760
Payments under the grant.
(a)
Manner of payment.
Recipients are to be paid in accordance with 2 CFR 200.305.
(b)
Availability of grant funds.
Federal financial assistance will become available subsequent to the effective date of the grant as set forth in the grant agreement. Recipients may be reimbursed for costs resulting from obligations incurred before the effective date of the grant, if such costs are authorized by VA in the NOFO or the grant agreement or authorized subsequently by VA in writing, and otherwise would be allowable as costs of the grant under applicable guidelines, regulations, and terms and conditions of the grant agreement.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.305)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.765
Recipient reporting requirements.
(a)
Final report.
The recipient must submit to VA, no later than 120 calendar days after the end date of the period of performance, all financial, performance, and other reports as required by the terms and conditions of the Federal award.
(b)
Additional reporting.
Additional reporting requirements may be requested by VA to allow VA to assess program effectiveness.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.344)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.770
Recovery of funds by VA.
(a)
Recovery of funds.
VA may recover from the recipient any funds that are not used in accordance with a grant agreement. If VA decides to recover such funds, VA will issue to the recipient a notice of intent to recover grant funds, and the recipient will then have 30 days to return the grant funds or submit documentation demonstrating why the grant funds should not be returned. After review of all submitted documentation, VA will determine whether action will be taken to recover the grant funds.
(b)
Prohibition of additional VLGP payments.
When VA makes a final decision to recover grant funds from the recipient, VA must stop further payments of grant funds under this part until the grant funds are recovered and the condition that led to the decision to recover grant funds has been resolved.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note, 2 CFR 200.339 and 200.410)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.775
Compliance review requirements.
(a)
Site visits.
VA may conduct, as needed, site visits to recipient locations to review recipient accomplishments and management control systems.
(b)
Inspections.
VA may conduct, as needed, inspections of recipient records to determine compliance with the provisions of this part. All visits and evaluations will be performed with minimal disruption to the recipient to the extent practicable.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.329)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.780
Financial management.
(a)
Compliance.
All recipients will comply with applicable requirements of the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, as implemented by 2 CFR part 200.
(b)
Financial Management.
All recipients must use a financial management system that complies with 2 CFR part 200. Recipients must meet the applicable requirements of the Office of Management and Budget's regulations on Cost Principles at 2 CFR 200.400-200.476.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note and 2 CFR 200.400-200.476)
[86 FR 59037, Oct. 26, 2021, as amended at 89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 38.785
Record retention and access.
Recipients must ensure that records are maintained and accessible in accordance with 2 CFR 200.334-200.338. Recipients must produce such records at VA's request.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501(d), 2400 note, and 2 CFR 200.334-200.338)
[89 FR 107003, Dec. 31, 2024]
Pt. 39

# PART 39—AID FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT, EXPANSION, AND IMPROVEMENT, OR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, OF VETERANS CEMETERIES

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
39.1
Purpose.
39.2
Definitions.
39.3
Priority list.
39.4
Decision makers, notifications, and additional information.
39.5
Submission of information and documents to VA.
39.6
Amendments to grant application.
39.7
Line item adjustment to grants.
39.8
Withdrawal of grant application.
39.9
Hearings.
39.10
Cemetery requirements and prohibitions and recapture provisions.
39.11
State or Tribal Organization to retain control of operations.
39.12-39.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Projects

# Grant Requirements and Procedures
39.30
General requirements for a grant.
39.31
Preapplication requirements.
39.32
Plan preparation.
39.33
Conferences.
39.34
Application requirements.
39.35
Final review and approval of application.
39.36-39.49
[Reserved]

# Award of Grant
39.50
Amount of grant.
39.51
Payment of grant award.
39.52-39.59
[Reserved]

# Standards and Requirements
39.60
General requirements for site selection and construction of veterans cemeteries.
39.61
Site planning standards.
39.62
Space criteria for support facilities.
39.63
Architectural design standards.
39.64-39.79
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Operation and Maintenance Projects

# Grant Requirements and Procedures
39.80
General requirements for a grant.
39.81
Preapplication requirements.
39.82
Plan preparation.
39.83
Conferences.
39.84
Application requirements.
39.85
Final review and approval of application.
39.86-39.99
[Reserved]

# Award of Grant
39.100
Amount of grant.
39.101
Payment of grant award.
39.102-39.119
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Grant Recipient Responsibilities, Inspections, and Reports Following Project Completion
39.120
Documentation of grant accomplishments.
39.121
State or Tribal Organization responsibilities following project completion.
39.122
Inspections, audits, and reports.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 2408, 2411, 3765.

# Source:
75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 39.1
Purpose.
This part sets forth the mechanism for a State or Tribal Organization to obtain a grant to establish, expand, or improve a veterans cemetery that meets VA's national shrine standards of appearance that is or will be owned by the State, or operated by a Tribal Organization on trust land, or to obtain a grant to operate or maintain a State or Tribal veterans cemetery to meet VA's national shrine standards of appearance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4472, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
Establishment
means the process of site selection, land acquisition, design and planning, earth moving, landscaping, construction, and provision of initial operating equipment necessary to convert a tract of land to an operational veterans cemetery.
Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project
means an undertaking to establish, expand, or improve a site for use as a State or Tribal veterans cemetery.
Expansion
means an increase in the burial capacity or acreage of an existing cemetery through the addition of gravesites and other facilities, such as committal service shelters, crypts (preplaced grave liners), and columbaria, necessary for the functioning of a cemetery.
Improvement
means the enhancement of a cemetery through landscaping, construction, or renovation of cemetery infrastructure, such as building expansion and upgrades to roads and irrigation systems that is not directly related to the development of new gravesites: nonrecurring maintenance; and the addition of other features appropriate to cemeteries.
Indian Tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or Regional or Village Corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
Operation and Maintenance Project
means a project that assists a State or Tribal Organization to achieve VA's national shrine standards of appearance in the key cemetery operational areas of cleanliness, height and alignment of headstones and markers, leveling of gravesites, and turf conditions.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.
State
means each of the States, Territories, and possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
Tribal Organization
means:
(1) The recognized governing body of any Indian Tribe;
(2) Any legally established organization of Indians that is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing body or is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by such organization and which includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities;
(3) The Department of Hawaiian Homelands; and
(4) Such other organizations as the Secretary may prescribe.
Trust land
means any land that:
(1) Is held in trust by the United States for Native Americans;
(2) Is subject to restrictions on alienation imposed by the United States on Indian lands, including native Hawaiian homelands;
(3) Is owned by a Regional Corporation or a Village Corporation as defined in 43 U.S.C. 1602(g) and (j); or
(4) Is on any island in the Pacific Ocean if such land is, by cultural tradition, communally-owned land, as determined by the Secretary.
VA
means the United States Department of Veterans Affairs or the Veterans Cemetery Grants Service.
Veteran
means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service who died in line of duty while in service or was discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable.
Veterans Cemetery Grants Service (VCGS)
means the Veterans Cemetery Grants Service within VA's National Cemetery Administration.
(Authority: 25 U.S.C. 450b(l), 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 2408, 3765)
[77 FR 4472, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.3
Priority list.
(a) The priority groups, with Priority Group 1 having the highest priority and Priority Group 4 the lowest priority, are:
(1)
Priority Group 1
—Projects needed to avoid disruption in burial service that would otherwise occur at existing veterans cemeteries within 4 years of the date of the preapplication. Such projects would include expansion projects as well as improvement projects (such as construction of additional or replacement facilities) when such improvements are required to continue interment operations.
(2)
Priority Group 2
—Projects for the establishment of new veterans cemeteries.
(3)
Priority Group 3
—Expansion projects at existing veterans cemeteries when a disruption in burial service due to the exhaustion of existing gravesites is not expected to occur within 4 years of the date of the preapplication.
(4)
Priority Group 4
—Improvement projects for cemetery landscaping or infrastructure, such as building expansion and upgrades to roads and irrigation systems, that are not directly related to the development of new gravesites. Operation and Maintenance Projects that address NCA's national shrine standards of appearance are included in this group.
(b) Within Priority Groups 1, 2, and 3, highest priority will be given to projects in geographical locations with the greatest number of veterans who will benefit from the project as determined by VA. This prioritization system, based on veteran population data, will assist VA in maintaining and improving access to burial in a veterans cemetery to more veterans and their eligible family members. Within Priority Group 1, at the discretion of VA, higher priority may be given to a project that must be funded that fiscal year to avoid disruption in burial service.
(c) Grants for projects within Priority Group 4 will be awarded in any fiscal year only after grants for all project applications under Priority Groups 1, 2, and 3 that are ready for funding have been awarded. Within Priority Group 4, projects will be ranked in priority order based upon VA's determination of the relative importance of proposed improvements and the degree to which proposed Operation and Maintenance Projects achieve NCA national shrine standards of appearance. No more than $10 million in any fiscal year will be awarded for Operation and Maintenance Projects under Priority Group 4.
(d) By October 1 of each year, VA will make a list prioritizing all preapplications that were received on or before July 1 of that year and that were approved under § 39.31 or § 39.81, ranking them in their order of priority within the applicable Priority Group for funding during the fiscal year. Preapplications from previous years will be re-prioritized each year and do not need to be resubmitted.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 87 FR 80461, Dec. 30, 2022]
§ 39.4
Decision makers, notifications, and additional information.
Decisions required under this part will be made by the VA Director, Veterans Cemetery Grants Service (VCGS), National Cemetery Administration, unless otherwise specified in this part. The VA decisionmaker will provide to affected States and Tribal Organizations written notice of approvals, denials, or requests for additional information under this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4473, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.5
Submission of information and documents to VA.
All information and documents required to be submitted to VA must be submitted to the Director of the Veterans Cemetery Grants Service, National Cemetery Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20420. All forms cited in this part are available at
http://www.cem.va.gov/cem/scg_grants.asp.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4473, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.6
Amendments to grant application.
A State or Tribal Organization seeking to amend a grant application must submit revised Standard Forms 424 (Application for Federal Assistance) and 424C (Budget Information) with a narrative description of, and justification for, the amendment. Any amendment of an application that changes the scope of the application or increases the amount of the grant requested, whether or not the application has already been approved, shall be subject to approval by VA in the same manner as an original application.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 4040-0004 and 4040-0008)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4473, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.7
Line item adjustment to grants.
After a grant has been awarded, upon request from the State or Tribal Organization representative, VA may approve a change in one or more line items (line items are identified in Standard Form 424C) of up to 10 percent (increase or decrease) of the cost of each line item if the change would be within the scope or objective of the project and the aggregate adjustments would not increase the total amount of the grant.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4473, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.8
Withdrawal of grant application.
A State or Tribal Organization representative may withdraw an application by submitting to VA a written document requesting withdrawal.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4473, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.9
Hearings.
(a) No application for a grant under this part shall be disapproved until the applicant has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing.
(b) Whenever a hearing is requested under this section, notice of the hearing, procedure for the conduct of such hearing, and procedures relating to decisions and notices shall accord with the provisions of §§ 18.9 and 18.10 of this chapter. Failure of an applicant to request a hearing under this section or to appear at a hearing for which a date has been set shall be deemed to be a waiver of the right to be heard and constitutes consent to the making of a decision on the basis of such information as is available.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
§ 39.10
Cemetery requirements and prohibitions and recapture provisions.
(a) In order to qualify for a grant, a State or Tribal veterans cemetery must be operated solely for the interment of veterans, their spouses, surviving spouses, minor children, unmarried adult children who were physically or mentally disabled and incapable of self-support, and eligible parents of certain deceased service members.
(b) Any grant under this part made on or after November 21, 1997, is made on the condition that, after the date of receipt of the grant, the State or Tribal Organization receiving the grant, subject to requirements for receipt of notice in 38 U.S.C. 2408 and 2411, will prohibit in the cemetery for which the grant is awarded the interment of the remains or the memorialization of any person:
(1) Who has been convicted of a Federal capital crime, as defined in 38 CFR 38.600(a), and whose conviction is final, other than a person whose sentence was commuted by the President;
(2) Who has been convicted of a State capital crime, as defined in 38 CFR 38.600(a), and whose conviction is final, other than a person whose sentence was commuted by the Governor of a State.
(3) Who has been found by an appropriate State official, as defined in 38 CFR 38.600(a), under procedures to be established by the State, to have committed a Federal or State capital crime, as defined in 38 CFR 38.600(a), but to have not been convicted of such crime by reason of unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution.
(4) Who has been convicted of a Federal or State crime causing the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901,
et seq.
); who, for such crime, is sentenced to a minimum of life imprisonment or to a period of 99 years or more; and whose conviction is final (other than a person whose sentence was commuted by the President or Governor of a State).
(5) Who has been found by an appropriate State official, as defined in § 38.600(a) of this part, under procedures to be established by the State, to have committed a Federal or State crime that would cause the person to be a tier III sex offender for purposes of the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20901
et seq.
) but avoided conviction of such crime by reason of unavailability for trial due to death or flight to avoid prosecution.
(c) If a State or Tribal Organization which has received a grant under this part ceases to own the cemetery for which the grant was made, ceases to operate such cemetery as a veterans cemetery in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, violates the prohibition in paragraph (b) of this section, or uses any part of the funds provided through such grant for a purpose other than that for which the grant was made, the United States shall be entitled to recover from the State or Tribal Organization the total of all grants made to the State or Tribal Organization under this part in connection with such cemetery.
(d) If, within 3 years after VA has certified to the Department of the Treasury an approved grant application, not all funds from the grant have been used by the State or Tribal Organization for the purpose for which the grant was made, the United States shall be entitled to recover any unused grant funds from the State or Tribal Organization.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408, 2411)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4473, Jan. 30, 2012; 84 FR 5955, Feb. 25, 2019; 86 FR 43102, Aug. 6, 2021; 89 FR 31638, Apr. 25, 2024]
§ 39.11
State or Tribal Organization to retain control of operations.
Neither the Secretary nor any employee of VA shall exercise any supervision or control over the administration, personnel, maintenance, or operation of any State or Tribal veterans cemetery that receives a grant under this program except as prescribed in this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4474, Jan. 30, 2012]
§§ 39.12-39.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Projects

# Grant Requirements and Procedures
§ 39.30
General requirements for a grant.
(a) For a State or Tribal Organization to obtain a grant for the establishment, expansion, or improvement of a State or Tribal veterans cemetery:
(1) Its preapplication for the grant must be approved by VA under § 39.31(e);
(2) Its project must be ranked sufficiently high on the priority list in § 39.3 for the applicable fiscal year so that funds are available for the project;
(3) Its plans and specifications for the project must be approved by VA under § 39.32;
(4) The State or Tribal Organization must meet the application requirements in § 39.34; and
(5) Other requirements specified in §§ 39.6, 39.10, and 39.33 must be satisfied.
(b) VA may approve under § 39.35 any application under this subpart up to
the amount of the grant requested once the requirements under paragraph (a) of this section have been satisfied, provided that sufficient funds are available. In determining whether sufficient funds are available, VA shall consider the project's priority ranking, the total amount of funds available for cemetery grant awards during the applicable fiscal year, and the prospects of higher ranking projects being ready for the award of a grant before the end of the applicable fiscal year.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4474, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.31
Preapplication requirements.
(a) A State or Tribal Organization seeking a grant for the establishment, expansion, or improvement of a State or Tribal veterans cemetery must submit a preapplication to the Director, Veterans Cemetery Grants Service, through
http://www.cem.va.gov/cem/scg_grants.asp.
(b) No detailed drawings, plans, or specifications are required with the preapplication. As a part of the preapplication, the State or Tribal Organization must submit each of the following:
(1) Standard Form 424 (Application for Federal Assistance) and Standard Form 424C (Budget Information) signed by the authorized representative of the State. These forms document the amount of the grant requested, which may not exceed 100 percent of the estimated cost of the project to be funded with the grant.
(2) A program narrative describing the objectives of the project, the need for a grant, the method of accomplishment, the projected interment rate, and the results or benefits expected to be obtained from the assistance requested.
(3) If a site has been selected, a description of the geographic location of the project (
i.e.,
a map showing the location of the project and all appropriate geographic boundaries, and any other supporting documentation, as needed).
(4) A design concept describing the major features of the project including the number and types of gravesites, such as columbarium niches.
(5) Any comments or recommendations made by the State's or Tribal Organization's “Single Point of Contact” reviewing agency.
(6) VA Form 40-0895-2 (Certification of Compliance with Provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act) to certify that the State or Tribal Organization has obtained the latest prevailing wage rates for Federally funded projects. Any construction project fully or partially funded with Federal dollars must comply with those rates for specific work by trade employees (e.g., electricians, carpenters).
(7) VA Form 40-0895-3 (State or Tribal Government Cemetery Grants Service Space Program Analysis—Buildings) to provide information on the proposed size of cemetery buildings, based on VA guidance on the net and gross square footage standards for cemetery buildings. This standard is based on a workload of 1-6 burials per day.
(8) VA Form 40-0895-6 (Certification of State or Tribal Government Matching Architectural and Engineering Funds to Qualify for Group 1 on the Priority List) to provide documentation that the State or Tribal Organization has authority to support the project and the resources necessary to initially fund the architectural and engineering portion of the project development. Once the grant is awarded, VA will reimburse the applicant for all allowable architectural and engineering costs.
(9) VA Form 40-0895-7 (Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions (State or Tribal Government)) to ensure that the applicant has not been debarred or suspended, and is eligible to participate in the VA grant process and receive Federal funds.
(10) VA Form 40-0895-8 (Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements for Grantees Other Than Individuals) to ensure that the applicant complies with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 at the location where the construction will occur.
(11) VA Form 40-0895-9 (Certification Regarding Lobbying) to ensure that the applicant complies with Public
Law 101-121 regarding the prohibition against any payments to anyone that influences or attempts to influence an officer or Member of Congress in connection with the award of a grant.
(12) VA Form 40-0895-10 (Certification of Compliance with Federal Requirements—State or Tribal Government Construction Grant) to ensure that the applicant complies with all requirements of part 39.
(13) VA Form 40-0895-15 (Certification of Cemetery Maintained in Accordance with National Cemetery Administration Standards) to ensure that any cemetery established, expanded, or improved through a grant will be operated and maintained in accordance with the operational standards of NCA.
(c) In addition, the State or Tribal Organization must submit written assurance of each of the following conditions:
(1) Any cemetery established, expanded, or improved through a grant will be used exclusively for the interment or memorialization of eligible persons, as set forth in § 39.10(a), whose interment or memorialization is not contrary to the conditions of the grant (
see
§ 39.10(b) and 38 U.S.C. 2408(d) and 2411).
(2) Title to the site is or will be vested solely in the State or held in trust for the Tribal Organization on trust land.
(3) The State or Tribal Organization possesses legal authority to apply for the grant and to finance and construct the proposed facilities;
i.e.,
legislation or similar action has been duly adopted or passed as an official act of the applicant's governing body, authorizing the filing of the application, including all understandings and assurances contained therein, and directing and authorizing the person identified as the official representative of the State or Tribal Organization to act in connection with the application and to provide such additional information as may be required.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(3):
In any case where a Tribal Organization is applying for a grant for a cemetery on land held in trust for more than one Indian Tribe, written assurance that the Tribal Organization possesses legal authority to apply for the grant includes certification that the Tribal Organization has obtained the approval of each such Indian Tribe.
(4) The State or Tribal Organization will assist VA in assuring that the grant complies with section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), Executive Order 11593 (identification and protection of historic properties), and the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 469a-1
et seq.
).
(5) The State or Tribal Organization will obtain approval by VA of the final construction drawings and specifications before the project is advertised or placed on the market for bidding; it will construct the project, or cause the project to be constructed, to completion in accordance with the application and approved plans and specifications; it will submit to the Director of the Veterans Cemetery Grants Service, for prior approval, changes that alter any cost of the project, use of space, or functional layout; and it will not enter into a construction contract for the project or undertake other activities until the requirements of the grant program have been met.
(6) The State or Tribal Organization will comply with the Federal requirements in 2 CFR parts 180, 200, and 801 and submit Standard Form 424D (Assurances—Construction Programs).
(7) The State or Tribal Organization will prepare an Environmental Assessment to determine whether an Environmental Impact Statement is necessary, and certify that funds are available to finance any costs related to preparation of the Environmental Assessment.
(d) The State or Tribal Organization must submit a copy of the State or Tribal Organization action authorizing the establishment, maintenance, and operation of the facility as a veterans cemetery in accordance with 38 CFR 39.10(a). If the State or Tribal Organization action is based on legislation, enacted into law, then the legislation must be submitted.
(e) Upon receipt of a complete preapplication for a grant, including all necessary assurances and all required supporting documentation, VA will determine whether the preapplication conforms to all requirements listed in paragraphs (a) through
(d) of this section, including whether it contains sufficient information necessary to establish the project's priority. VA will notify the State or Tribal Organization of any nonconformity. If the preapplication does conform, VA shall notify the State or Tribal Organization that the preapplication has been found to meet the preapplication requirements, and the proposed project will be included in the next scheduled ranking of projects, as indicated in § 39.3(d).
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 4040-0004, 4040-0008, 4040-0009, and 2900-0559)
(Authority: 25 U.S.C. 450b(l); 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408, 2411)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4474, Jan. 30, 2012; 80 FR 43322, July 22, 2015]
§ 39.32
Plan preparation.
The State or Tribal Organization must prepare Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project plans and specifications in accordance with the requirements of this section for review by the VCGS. The plans and specifications must be approved by the VCGS prior to the State's or Tribal Organization's solicitation for construction bids. Once the VCGS approves the plans and specifications, the State or Tribal Organization must obtain construction bids and determine the successful bidder prior to submission of the application. The State or Tribal Organization must establish procedures for determining that costs are reasonable and necessary and can be allocated in accordance with 2 CFR part 200. Once the Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project preapplication and the project's plans and specifications have been approved, an application for assistance must be submitted in compliance with the uniform requirements for grants-in-aid to State and local governments prescribed by 2 CFR part 200.
(a)
General.
These requirements have been established for the guidance of the State or Tribal Organization and the design team to provide a standard for preparation of drawings, specifications, and estimates.
(b)
Technical requirements.
The State or Tribal Organization should meet these technical requirements as soon as possible after VA approves the Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project preapplication.
(1)
Boundary and site survey.
The State or Tribal Organization shall provide a survey of the site and furnish a legal description of the site. A boundary and site survey need not be submitted if one was submitted for a previously approved project and there have been no changes. Relevant information may then be shown on the site plan. If required, the site survey shall show each of the following items:
(i) The outline and location referenced to boundaries of all existing buildings, streets, alleys (whether public or private), block boundaries, easements, encroachments, the names of streets, railroads, and streams, and other information as specified. If there is nothing of this character affecting the property, the Surveyor shall so state on the drawings.
(ii) The point of beginning, bearing, distances, and interior angles. Closure computations shall be furnished with the survey, and error of closure shall not exceed 1 foot for each 10,000 feet of lineal traverse. Boundaries of an unusual nature (curvilinear, off-set, or having other change or direction between corners) shall be referenced with curve data (including measurement chord) and other data sufficient for replacement, and such information shall be shown on the map. For boundaries of such nature, coordinates shall be given for all angles and other pertinent points.
(iii) The area of the parcel in acres or in square feet.
(iv) The location of all monuments.
(v) Delineation of 100-year floodplain and source.
(vi) The signature and certification of the Surveyor.
(2)
Soil investigation.
The State or Tribal Organization shall provide a soil investigation of the scope necessary to ascertain site characteristics for construction and burial or to determine foundation requirements and utility service connections. A new soil investigation is not required if one was done for a previously approved project on
the same site and information from the previous investigation is adequate and unchanged. Soil investigation, when done, shall be documented in a signed report. The investigation shall be adequate to determine the subsoil conditions. The investigation shall include a sufficient number of test pits or test borings as will determine, in the judgment of the architect, the true conditions. The following information will be covered in the report:
(i) Thickness, consistency, character, and estimated safe bearing value where needed for structural foundation design of the various strata encountered in each pit or boring.
(ii) Amount and elevation of ground water encountered in each pit or boring, its probable variation with the seasons, and effect on the subsoil.
(iii) The elevation of rock, if known, and the probability of encountering quicksand.
(iv) If the site is underlaid with mines, the elevations and location of the tops of the mine workings relative to the site, or old workings located in the vicinity.
(3)
Topographical survey.
A topographical survey in 1-foot contour intervals shall be prepared for projects establishing new cemeteries and for significant expansion projects in previously undeveloped land.
(c)
Master plan.
A master plan showing the proposed layout of all facilities—including buildings, roadways, and burial sections—on the selected site shall be prepared for all new cemetery establishment projects for approval by the VCGS. If the project is to be phased into different year programs, the phasing shall be indicated. The master plan shall analyze all factors affecting the design, including climate, soil conditions, site boundaries, topography, views, hydrology, environmental constraints, transportation access, etc. It should provide a discussion of alternate designs that were considered. In the case of an expansion project or improvement project, the work contemplated should be consistent with the VA-approved master plan or a justification for the deviation should be provided.
(d)
Preliminary or “design development” drawings.
Following VA approval of the master plan, the State or Tribal Organization must submit design development drawings that show all current phase construction elements to be funded by the grant. The drawings must comply with the following requirements:
(1) Site development and environmental plans must include locations of structures, demolition, parking, roads, service areas, walks, plazas, memorial paths, other paved areas, landscape buffer and major groupings, and interment areas (including quantity of gravesites in each area). A grading plan including existing and proposed contours at 1-foot intervals of the entire area affected by the site work must be submitted. A site plan of the immediate area around each building shall be drawn to a convenient scale and shall show the building floor plan, utility connections, walks, gates, walls or fences, flagpoles, drives, parking areas, indication of handicapped provisions, landscaping, north arrow, and any other appropriate items.
(2) Floor plans of all levels at a convenient scale shall be double-line drawings and shall show overall dimensions, construction materials, door swings, names and square feet for each space, toilet room fixtures, and interior finish schedule.
(3) Elevations of the exteriors of all buildings shall be drawn to the same scale as the plan and shall include all material indications.
(4) Preliminary mechanical and electrical layout plans shall be drawn at a convenient scale and shall have an equipment and plumbing fixture schedule.
(e)
Final construction drawings and specifications.
Funds for the construction of any project being assisted under this program will not be released until VA approves the final construction drawings and specifications. If VA approves them, VA shall send the State or Tribal Organization a written letter of approval indicating that the project's plans and specifications comply with the terms and conditions as prescribed by VA. This does not constitute approval of the contract documents. It is the responsibility of the
State or Tribal Organization to ascertain that all State and Federal requirements have been met and that the drawings and specifications are acceptable for bid purposes.
(1)
General.
The State or Tribal Organization shall prepare final working drawings so that clear and distinct prints may be obtained. These drawings must be accurately dimensioned to include all necessary explanatory notes, schedules, and legends. Working drawings shall be complete and adequate for VA review and comment. The State or Tribal Organization shall prepare separate drawings for each of the following types of work: Architectural, equipment, layout, structural, heating and ventilating, plumbing, and electrical.
(2)
Architectural drawings.
The State or Tribal Organization shall submit drawings which include: All structures and other work to be removed; all floor plans if any new work is involved; all elevations which are affected by the alterations; building sections; demolition drawings; all details to complete the proposed work and finish schedules; and fully dimensioned floor plans at
1/8
″ or
1/4
″ scale.
(3)
Equipment drawings.
The State or Tribal Organization shall submit a list of all equipment to be provided under terms of the grant in the case of an Establishment Project. Large-scale drawings of typical special rooms indicating all fixed equipment and major items of furniture and moveable equipment shall be included.
(4)
Layout drawings.
The State or Tribal Organization shall submit a layout plan that shows:
(i) All proposed features such as roads, buildings, walks, utility lines, burial layout, etc.
(ii) Contours, scale, north arrow, and legend showing existing trees.
(iii) A graphic or keyed method of showing plant types as well as quantities of each plant.
(iv) Plant list with the following: key, quantity, botanical name, common name, size, and remarks.
(v) Typical tree and shrub planting details.
(vi) Areas to be seeded or sodded.
(vii) Areas to be mulched.
(viii) Gravesite section layout with permanent section monument markers and lettering system.
(ix) Individual gravesite layout and numbering system. If the cemetery is existing and the project is expansion or renovation, show available, occupied, obstructed, and reserved gravesites.
(x) Direction the headstones face.
(5)
Structural drawings.
The State or Tribal Organization shall submit complete foundation and framing plans and details, with general notes to include: Governing code, material strengths, live loads, wind loads, foundation design values, and seismic zone.
(6)
Mechanical drawings.
The State or Tribal Organization shall submit:
(i) Heating and ventilation drawings showing complete systems and details of air conditioning, heating, ventilation, and exhaust; and
(ii) Plumbing drawings showing sizes and elevations of soil and waste systems, sizes of all hot and cold water piping, drainage and vent systems, plumbing fixtures, and riser diagrams.
(7)
Electrical drawings.
The State or Tribal Organization shall submit separate drawings for lighting and power, including drawings of:
(i) Service entrance, feeders, and all characteristics;
(ii) All panel, breaker, switchboard, and fixture schedules;
(iii) All lighting outlets, receptacles, switches, power outlets, and circuits; and
(iv) Telephone layout, fire alarm systems, and emergency lighting.
(8)
Final specifications.
Final specifications (to be used for bid purposes) shall be in completed format. Specifications shall include the invitations for bids, cover or title sheet, index, general requirements, form of bid bond, form of agreement, performance and payment bond forms, and sections describing materials and workmanship in detail for each class of work.
(9)
Cost estimates.
The State or Tribal Organization shall show in convenient form and detail the estimated total cost of the work to be performed under the contract, including provisions of fixed equipment shown by the plans
and specifications, if applicable, to reflect the changes of the approved financial plan. Estimates shall be summarized and totaled under each trade or type of work. Estimates shall also be provided for each building structure and other important features such as the assembly area and shall include burial facilities.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0559)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4475, Jan. 30, 2012; 80 FR 43322, July 22, 2015]
§ 39.33
Conferences.
(a)
Predesign conference.
A predesign conference is required for all Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Projects requiring major construction, primarily to ensure that the State or Tribal Organization becomes oriented to VA procedures, requirements, and any technical comments pertaining to the project. This conference will take place at an appropriate location near the proposed site and should include a site visit to ensure that all parties to the process, including NCA staff, are familiar with the site and its characteristics.
(b)
Additional conferences.
At any time, VA may recommend an additional conference (such as a design development conference) be held in VA Central Office in Washington, DC, to provide an opportunity for the State or Tribal Organization and its architects to discuss with VA officials the requirements for a grant.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4476, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.34
Application requirements.
(a) For an Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project to be considered for grant funding under this subpart, the State or Tribal Organization must submit an application (as opposed to a preapplication) consisting of the following:
(1) Standard Form 424 (Application for Federal Assistance) with the box labeled “application” marked;
(2) Standard Form 424C (Budget Information), which documents the amount of funds requested based on the construction costs as estimated by the successful construction bid;
(3) A copy of itemized bid tabulations (If there are non-VA participating areas, these shall be itemized separately.); and
(4) Standard Form 424D (Assurances—Construction Program).
(5) VA Form 40-0895-11 (Memorandum of Agreement for a Grant to Construct or Modify a State or Tribal Government Veterans Cemetery) to identify the parties (VA and applicant), identify the scope of the project, and indicate how the grant award funds will be paid to the applicant.
(6) VA Form 40-0895-12 (Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion—Lower Tier Covered Transactions (Contractor)) to ensure that the contractor has not been debarred or suspended, and is eligible to participate in the VA grant process and receive Federal funds.
(b) Prior to submission of the application, the State or Tribal Organization must submit a copy of an Environmental Assessment to determine if an Environmental Impact Statement is necessary for compliance with section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4332). The Environmental Assessment must briefly describe the project's possible beneficial and harmful effects on the following impact categories:
(1) Transportation;
(2) Air quality;
(3) Noise;
(4) Solid waste;
(5) Utilities;
(6) Geology (Soils/Hydrology/Floodplains);
(7) Water quality;
(8) Land use;
(9) Vegetation, Wildlife, Aquatic, Ecology/Wetlands, etc.;
(10) Economic activities;
(11) Cultural resources;
(12) Aesthetics;
(13) Residential population;
(14) Community services and facilities;
(15) Community plans and projects; and
(16) Other.
(c) If an adverse environmental impact is anticipated, the State or Tribal Organization must explain what action will be taken to minimize the impact. The assessment shall comply with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
).
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 4040-0004, 4040-0008, 4040-0009, and 2900-0559)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4476, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.35
Final review and approval of application.
Following VA approval of bid tabulations and cost estimates, VA will review the complete Establishment, Expansion and Improvement Project grant application for approval in accordance with the requirements of § 39.30. If the application is approved, the grant will be awarded by a Memorandum of Agreement of Federal grant funds.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
§§ 39.36-39.49
[Reserved]

# Award of Grant
§ 39.50
Amount of grant.
(a) The amount of an Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project grant awarded under this subpart may not exceed 100 percent of the total cost of the project, but may be less than the total cost of the project.
(b) The total cost of a project under this subpart may include:
(1) Administration and design costs, e.g., architectural and engineering fees, inspection fees, and printing and advertising costs.
(2) The cost of cemetery features, e.g., entry features, flag plaza and assembly areas, columbaria, irrigation systems, committal-service shelters, and administration/maintenance buildings.
(3) In the case of an establishment grant, the cost of equipment necessary for the operation of the State or Tribal veterans cemetery. This may include the cost of non-fixed equipment such as grounds maintenance equipment, burial equipment, and office equipment.
(4) In the case of an improvement or expansion grant, the cost of equipment necessary for operation of the State or Tribal veterans cemetery, but only if such equipment:
(i) Was included in the construction contract;
(ii) Was installed during construction; and
(iii) Is permanently affixed to a building or connected to the heating, ventilating, air conditioning, or other service distributed through a building via ducts, pipes, wires, or other connecting device, such as kitchen and intercommunication equipment, built-in cabinets, and equipment lifts.
(5) A contingency allowance not to exceed five percent of the total cost of a project that involves new construction or eight percent of the total cost of an improvement project that does not involve new construction.
(c) The total cost of a project under this subpart may not include the cost of:
(1) Land acquisition;
(2) Building space that exceeds the space guidelines specified in this part;
(3) Improvements not on cemetery land, such as access roads or utilities;
(4) Maintenance or repair work;
(5) Office supplies or consumable goods (such as fuel and fertilizer) that are routinely used in a cemetery; or
(6) Fully enclosed, climate-controlled, committal-service facilities, freestanding chapels, or chapels that are part of an administrative building or information center.
(d) VA shall certify approved applications to the Secretary of the Treasury in the amount of the grant, and shall designate the appropriation from which it shall be paid. Funds paid for the establishment, expansion, or improvement of a veterans cemetery must be used solely for carrying out approved projects.
(e) VA will reimburse the cost of preplaced outer burial receptacles separately in accordance with § 38.629 of this chapter.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4476, Jan. 30, 2012; 89 FR 82182, Oct. 10, 2024]
§ 39.51
Payment of grant award.
The amount of an Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project grant award will be paid to the State or Tribal Organization or, if designated by the State or Tribal Organization representative, the State or Tribal veterans cemetery for which such project is being carried out, or to any other State or Tribal Organization agency or instrumentality. Such amount shall be paid by way of reimbursement and in installments that are consistent with the progress of the project, as the Director of the Veterans Cemetery Grants Service may determine and certify for payment to the appropriate Federal institution. Funds paid under this section for an approved Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project shall be used solely for carrying out such project as approved. As a condition for the final payment, the representative of the State or Tribal Organization must submit to VA the following:
(a) Standard Form 271 (Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs);
(b) A request in writing for the final architectural/engineering inspection, including the name and telephone number of the local point of contact for the project;
(c) The written statement, “It is hereby agreed that the monetary commitment of the Federal government will have been met and the project will be considered terminated upon payment of this voucher.”; and
(d) Evidence that the State or Tribal Organization has met its responsibility for an audit under the Single Audit Act of 1984 (31 U.S.C. 7501
et seq.
) and § 39.122, if applicable.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 0348-0002)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4476, Jan. 30, 2012]
§§ 39.52-39.59
[Reserved]

# Standards and Requirements
§ 39.60
General requirements for site selection and construction of veterans cemeteries.
(a) The various codes, requirements, and recommendations of State or Tribal Organization and local authorities or technical and professional organizations, to the extent and manner in which those codes, requirements, and recommendations are referenced in this subpart, are applicable to grants involving construction of veterans cemeteries. Additional information concerning these codes, requirements, and recommendations may be obtained from VA, National Cemetery Administration, 810 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20420.
(b) The standards in §§ 39.60, 39.61, 39.62, and 39.63 constitute general design and construction criteria and shall apply to all Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Projects for which Federal assistance is requested under 38 U.S.C. 2408.
(c) In developing these standards, no attempt has been made to comply with all of the various State and local codes and regulations. The standards contained in §§ 39.60, 39.61, 39.62, and 39.63 shall be followed where they exceed State or local codes and regulations. Departure will be permitted, however, when alternate standards are demonstrated to provide equivalent or better design criteria than the standards in these sections. Conversely, compliance is required with State and local codes where such requirements provide a standard higher than those in these sections. The additional cost, if any, in using standards that are higher than those of VA should be documented and justified in the application.
(d) The space criteria and area requirements referred to in these standards shall be used as a guide in planning. Additional area and facilities beyond those specified as basic may be included if found to be necessary to meet the functional requirements of the project but are subject to approval by VA. Substantial deviation from the space criteria or area standards shall be carefully considered and justified. Failing to meet the criteria or standards or exceeding them by more than 10 percent in the completed plan would be regarded as evidence of inferior design or as exceeding the boundaries of professional requirements. In those projects that unjustifiably exceed maximum space criteria or area requirements, VA funding may be subject to reduction in proportion to the amount by which the space or area of the cemetery exceeds the maximum specified in these standards.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4476, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.61
Site planning standards.
(a)
Site selection
—(1)
Location.
The land should be located as close as possible to the densest veteran population in the area under consideration.
(2)
Size.
Sufficient acreage shall be available to provide gravesites for estimated needs for at least 20 years. More acreage should be provided where feasible. Acreage could vary depending on the State veteran population and national cemetery availability.
(3)
Accessibility.
The site should be readily accessible by highway. Offsite improvements shall not be funded by the grant.
(4)
Topography.
The land should range from comparatively level to rolling and moderately hilly terrain. Natural rugged contours are suitable only if development and maintenance costs would not be excessive and burial areas would be accessible to elderly or infirm visitors. The land shall not be subject to flooding.
(5)
Water table.
The water table should be lower than the maximum proposed depth of burial.
(6)
Soil requirements.
The soil should be free from rock, muck, unstable composition, and other materials that would hamper the economical excavation of graves by normal methods. In general, the soil should meet the standards of good agricultural land that is capable of supporting turf and trees, with normal care and without the addition of topsoil.
(7)
Utilities.
Electricity and gas, if required, should be available. Offsite improvements shall not be funded by the grant.
(8)
Water supply.
An adequate supply of water should be available. Offsite improvements shall not be funded by the grant.
(9)
Sewerage.
An approved means to dispose of storm flow and sewage from the facility should be available. Offsite improvements shall not be funded by the grant.
(b)
Site development requirements
—(1)
General.
The development plan shall provide for adequate hard-surfaced roads, walks, parking areas, public rest rooms, a flag circle, and a main gate.
(2)
Parking.
All parking facilities shall include provisions to accommodate the physically handicapped. A minimum of one space shall be set aside and identified with signage in each parking area with additional spaces provided in the ratio of 1 handicapped space to every 20 regular spaces. Handicapped spaces shall not be placed between two conventional diagonal or head-on parking spaces. Each of the handicapped parking spaces shall not be less than 9 feet wide; in addition, a clear space 4 feet wide shall be provided between the adjacent conventional parking spaces and also on the outside of the end spaces. Parking shall not be provided for large numbers of people attending ceremonial events such as Memorial Day services.
(3)
Roads.
Roads should generally follow the topography of the cemetery and allow pedestrian access to burial sections on both sides. Roads should generally not be used as “boundaries” outlining burial sections. Extensive bridging should be avoided. Grant program funding may not be used to build access roads on property that is not part of the cemetery. Road widths shall be compatible with proposed traffic flows and volumes. Primary roads shall be generally 24 feet wide.
(4)
Pavement design.
The pavement section of all roads, service areas, and parking areas shall be designed for the maximum anticipated traffic loads and existing soil conditions and in accordance with local and State design criteria.
(5)
Curbs.
Bituminous roads may be provided with integral curbs and gutters constructed of portland cement concrete. Freestanding curbs may be substituted when the advantage of using them is clearly indicated. All curbs shall have a “roll-type” cross section for vehicle and equipment access to lawn areas except as may be necessary for traffic control. The radii of curbs at road intersections shall not be less than 20 feet-0 inches. Curb ramps shall be provided to accommodate the physically handicapped and maintenance equipment. Curb ramps shall be provided at all intersections of roads and walks. The curb ramps shall not be less than 4 feet wide; they shall not have a slope greater than 8 percent, and preferably not greater than 5 percent. The vertical angle between the surface of a curb ramp and the surface of a road or gutter shall not be less than 176 degrees; the transition between the two surfaces shall be smooth. Curb ramps shall have nonskid surfaces.
(6)
Walks.
Walks shall be designed with consideration for the physically handicapped and elderly. Walks and ramps designed on an incline shall have periodic level platforms. All walks, ramps and platforms shall have nonskid surfaces. Any walk shall be ramped if the slope exceeds 3 percent. Walks that have gradients from 2 to 3 percent shall be provided with level platforms at 200-foot intervals and at intersections with other walks. Ramps shall not have a slope greater than 8 percent, and preferably not greater than 5 percent. The ramps shall have handrails on both sides unless other protective devices are provided; every handrail shall have clearance of not less than 1
1/2
inches between the back of the handrail and the wall or any other vertical surface behind it. Ramps shall not be less than 4 feet wide between curbs; curbs shall be provided on both sides. The curbs shall not be less than 4 inches high and 4 inches wide. A level platform in a ramp shall not be less than the full width of the ramp and not less than 5 feet long. Entrance platforms and ramps shall be provided with protective weather barriers to shield them against hazardous conditions resulting from inclement weather.
(7)
Steps.
Exterior steps may be included in the site development as long as provisions are made for use by physically handicapped persons.
(8)
Grading.
Minimum lawn slopes shall be 2 percent; critical spot grade elevations shall be shown on the contract drawings. Insofar as practicable, lawn areas shall be designed without steep slopes.
(9)
Landscaping.
The landscaping plan should provide for a park-like setting of harmonious open spaces balanced with groves of indigenous and cultivated deciduous and evergreen trees. Shrubbery should be kept to a minimum. Steep slopes that are unsuitable for interment areas should be kept in their natural state.
(10)
Surface drainage.
Surface grades shall be determined in coordination with the architectural, structural, and mechanical design of buildings and facilities so as to provide proper surface drainage.
(11)
Burial areas.
A site plan of the cemetery shall include a burial layout. If appropriate, the burial layout should reflect the phases of development in the various sections. The first phase of construction should contain sufficient burial sites to meet the foreseeable demand for at least 10 years. All applicable dimensions of roadways, fences, utilities, or other structures shall be indicated on the layout.
(12)
Gravesites.
Gravesites shall be laid out in uniform pattern. There shall be a minimum of 10 feet from the edge of roads and drives and a minimum of 20 feet from the boundaries or fence lines. Maximum distance from the edge of a permanent road to any gravesite shall not be over 275 feet. Temporary roads may be provided to serve areas in phase developments.
(13)
Monumentation.
Each grave shall be marked with an appropriate marker, and each cemetery shall maintain a register of burials setting forth the name of each person buried and the
designation of the grave in which he/she is buried. Permanent gravesite control markers shall be installed based on a grid system throughout the burial area unless otherwise specified. This will facilitate the gravesite layout, placement of utility lines, and alignment of headstones.
(14)
Entrance.
The entrance should be an architectural or landscape feature that creates a sense of arrival.
(15)
Memorial walkway.
Each cemetery should have an area for the display of memorials donated by veterans groups and others. Such areas may take the form of a path or walkway and should provide a contemplative setting for visitors.
(16)
Donation items.
Family members and others often wish to donate items such as benches and trees. Acceptable items of donation should be specified in the cemetery plan. The plan should also designate appropriate locations for such items.
(17)
Flag/assembly area.
There shall be one primary flagpole for the United States flag. This flag shall be lighted. A turf assembly area should be developed for major gatherings such as Memorial Day. The assembly area may be focused on the flag. The area may also incorporate an architectural or a landscape feature that functions as a platform or backdrop for speakers.
(18)
Site furnishings.
Site furnishings include signage, trash receptacles, benches, and flower containers. These items should be coordinated and complement each other, the architectural design, and the cemetery as a whole. They should be simple, durable, standardized, and properly scaled.
(19)
Carillons.
The cemetery development plan should include a location for a carillon tower. Carillons are normally donated. They are not provided for in the grant.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
§ 39.62
Space criteria for support facilities.
These criteria are based on a projected average burial rate of one to six per day, staffing by position, and a defined complement of maintenance and service equipment. For cemeteries with less than one or more than six burials per day, support facilities are considered on an individual basis in accordance with § 39.60(d). In converting Net Square Feet (NSF) to Gross Square Feet (GSF), a conversion factor of 1.5 is the maximum allowed. The applicant shall, in support of the design, include the following as an attachment to the application: A list of all grounds maintenance supplies and equipment and the number of Full Time Employees (FTE) by job assignment for the next 10 years.
(a)
Administrative building.
The administrative building should be approximately 1,600 NSF in total, providing space, as needed, for the following:
(1) Cemetery director's office;
(2) Other offices (as needed);
(3) Administrative staff (lobby/office area);
(4) Operations (file/office/equipment/work area);
(5) Family/conference room;
(6) Military honors team;
(7) Refreshment unit;
(8) Housekeeping aide's closet; and
(9) Restroom facilities.
(b)
Maintenance/service building.
The maintenance/service building may be combined with the administrative building. The maintenance/service building should be approximately 2,200 NSF in total, providing heated and air conditioned space, as needed, for the following:
(1) Foreman's office;
(2) Lunch room;
(3) Kitchen unit;
(4) Toilet and locker room facilities;
(5) Housekeeping aide's closet; and
(6) Vehicle and equipment maintenance and storage.
(c)
Vehicle and equipment storage.
Approximately 275 NSF/Bay as needed. Not all types of vehicles and equipment require storage in heated space. Based on climatic conditions, it may be justified to rely completely on open structures rather than heated structures to protect the following types of vehicles and equipment: Dump trucks, pickup trucks, cemetery automobiles, gang and circular mowers.
(d)
Interment/committal service shelter.
One permanent shelter is authorized for every five interments per day. The shelter may include a covered area to provide seating for approximately 20
people and an uncovered paved area to provide space for approximately 50 additional people. The shelter may also include a small, enclosed equipment/storage area. Provisions must be made for the playing of Taps by recorded means.
(e)
Public Information Center.
One permanent Public Information Center is authorized per facility. A Public Information Center is used to orient visitors and funeral corteges. It should include the gravesite locator. The public restrooms may also be combined with this structure. Space determinations for separate structures for public restrooms shall be considered on an individual basis. The Public Information Center, including public restrooms, may be combined with the administrative building.
(f)
Other interment structures.
Space determinations for other support facilities such as columbaria, preplaced graveliners (or crypts), garden niches, etc., will be considered on an individual basis in accordance with § 39.60(d).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
§ 39.63
Architectural design standards.
The publications listed in this section are incorporated by reference. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these publications may be inspected at the office of the Veterans Cemetery Grants Service, National Cemetery Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20420 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030 or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies of the 2003 edition of the National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code and Errata (NFPA 101), the 2003 edition of the NFPA 5000, Building Construction and Safety Code, and the 2002 edition of the National Electrical Code, NFPA 70, may be obtained from the National Fire Protection Association, Inc. (NFPA), 1 Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, MA 02269-9101, (800) 844-6058 (toll free). Copies of the 2003 edition of the Uniform Mechanical Code and the 2003 edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code may be obtained from the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, 5001 E. Philadelphia Street, Ontario, CA 91761-2816. (909) 472-4100 (this is not a toll-free number). The 2002 and 2003 NFPA and IAPMO code publications can be inspected at VA by calling (202) 461-4902 for an appointment.
(a)
Architectural and structural requirements
—(1)
Life Safety Code.
Standards must be in accordance with the 2003 edition of the National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code, NFPA 101. Fire safety construction features not included in NFPA 101 shall be designed in accordance with the requirements of the 2003 edition of the NFPA 5000, Building Construction and Safety Code. Where the adopted codes state conflicting requirements, the NFPA National Fire Codes shall govern.
(2)
State and local codes.
In addition to compliance with the standards set forth in this section, all applicable local and State building codes and regulations must be observed. In areas not subject to local or State building codes, the recommendations contained in the 2003 edition of the NFPA 5000, Building Construction and Safety Code, shall apply.
(3)
Occupational safety and health standards.
Applicable standards contained in the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651
et seq.
) must be observed.
(b)
Mechanical requirements.
The heating system, boilers, steam system, ventilation system, and air-conditioning system shall be furnished and installed to meet all requirements of the local and State codes and regulations. Where no local or State codes are in force, the 2003 edition of the Uniform Mechanical Code shall apply.
(c)
Plumbing requirements.
Plumbing systems shall comply with all applicable local and State codes, the requirements of the State Department of Health, and the minimum general standards as set forth in this part. Where no local or State codes are in force, the 2003 edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code shall apply.
(d)
Electrical requirements.
The installation of electrical work and equipment shall comply with all local and State codes and laws applicable to electrical installations and the minimum general standards set forth in the NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, 2002 edition. The regulations of the local utility company shall govern service connections. Aluminum bus ways shall not be used as a conducting medium in the electrical distribution system.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4476, Jan. 30, 2012]
§§ 39.64-39.79
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Operation and Maintenance Projects

# Grant Requirements and Procedures
§ 39.80
General requirements for a grant.
(a) For a State or Tribal Organization to obtain a grant for the operation or maintenance of a State or Tribal veterans cemetery:
(1) Its preapplication for the grant must be approved by VA under § 39.81(e);
(2) Its project must be ranked sufficiently high within Priority Group 4 as defined in § 39.3 for the applicable fiscal year so that funds are available for the project, and a grant for the project must not result in payment of more than the $10 million total amount permissible for all Operation and Maintenance Projects in any fiscal year;
(3) Its plans and specifications for the project must be approved by VA under § 39.82;
(4) The State or Tribal Organization must meet the application requirements in § 39.84; and
(5) Other requirements specified in §§ 39.6, 39.10, and 39.83 must be satisfied.
(b) VA may approve under § 39.85 any Operation and Maintenance Project grant application up to the amount of the grant requested once the requirements under paragraph (a) of this section have been satisfied, provided that sufficient funds are available, and that total amount of grants awarded during any fiscal year for Operation and Maintenance Projects does not exceed $10 million. In determining whether sufficient funds are available, VA shall consider the project's ranking in Priority Group 4; the total amount of funds available for cemetery grant awards in Priority Group 4 during the applicable fiscal year; and the prospects of higher-ranking projects being ready for the award of a grant before the end of the applicable fiscal year.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4477, Jan. 30, 2012; 87 FR 80461, Dec. 30, 2022]
§ 39.81
Preapplication requirements.
(a) A State or Tribal Organization seeking a grant for the operation or maintenance of a State or Tribal veterans cemetery must submit a preapplication to the Director, Veterans Cemetery Grants Service, through
http://www.cem.va.gov/cem/scg_grants.asp.
(b) No detailed drawings, plans, or specifications are required with the preapplication. As a part of the preapplication, the State or Tribal Organization must submit each of the following:
(1) Standard Form 424 (Application for Federal Assistance) and Standard Form 424C (Budget Information) signed by the authorized representative of the State or Tribal Organization. These forms document the amount of the grant requested, which may not exceed 100 percent of the estimated cost of the project to be funded with the grant.
(2) VA Form 40-0895-2 (Certification of Compliance with Provisions of the Davis-Bacon Act) to certify that the State or Tribal Organization has obtained the latest prevailing wage rates for Federally funded projects. Any construction project fully or partially funded with Federal dollars must comply with those rates for specific work by trade employees (e.g., electricians, carpenters).
(3) VA Form 40-0895-6 (Certification of State or Tribal Government Matching Architectural and Engineering Funds to Qualify for Group 1 on the Priority List) to provide documentation that the State or Tribal Organization has legal authority to support the project and the resources necessary to
initially fund the architectural and engineering portion of the project development. Once the grant is awarded, VA will reimburse the applicant for all allowable architectural and engineering costs.
(4) VA Form 40-0895-7 (Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters-Primary Covered Transactions (State or Tribal Government)) to ensure that the applicant has not been debarred or suspended, and is eligible to participate in the VA grant process and receive Federal funds.
(5) VA Form 40-0895-8 (Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements for Grantees Other Than Individuals) to ensure that the applicant complies with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 at the location where the construction will occur.
(6) VA Form 40-0895-9 (Certification Regarding Lobbying) to ensure that the applicant complies with Public Law 101-121 regarding the prohibition against any payments to anyone that influences or attempts to influence an officer or Member of Congress in connection with the award of a grant.
(7) VA Form 40-0895-10 (Certification of Compliance with Federal Requirements-State or Tribal Government Construction Grant) to ensure that the applicant complies with all requirements of part 39.
(8) VA Form 40-0895-15 (Certification of Cemetery Maintained in Accordance with National Cemetery Administration Standards) to ensure that any cemetery operated or maintained through a grant will be operated and maintained in accordance with VA's national shrine standards of appearance.
(9) A gravesite assessment survey documenting the State or Tribal cemetery's performance related to the standards outlined in paragraph (b)(10) of this section for the year in which the preapplication is submitted.
(10) A program narrative describing how the project will assist the State or Tribal Organization in meeting VA's national shrine standards with respect to cleanliness, height and alignment of headstones and markers, leveling of gravesites, or turf conditions. Specifically, the preapplication should explain the need for the grant, how the work is to be accomplished, and the expected improvement in the State or Tribal cemetery's performance related to one or more of the following national shrine standards:
(i)
Cleanliness.
90 percent of headstones, markers, and niche covers must be clean and free of debris and objectionable accumulations.
(ii)
Height.
90 percent of headstones and markers must be set and maintained at the proper height.
(iii)
Alignment.
100 percent of headstones, markers, and niche covers must be properly installed. Upright headstones in active burial sections must be uniform in height (24″-26″ above ground), horizontally and vertically aligned with inscriptions visible, and installed to ensure a pleasing top line while compensating for ground contours. Flat markers must be uniform in height (parallel with the ground and no more than 1″ above grade) and horizontally and vertically aligned. Niche covers must be horizontally and vertically aligned. All inscriptions must be visible.
(iv)
Grade.
95 percent of the grade of every gravesite must blend in with adjacent grade levels.
(v)
Turf conditions.
100 percent of visually prominent areas must have a well-established, healthy stand of turf that is generally weed free; 95 percent of visually prominent areas with established turf must be generally free of bare areas.
(11) A description of the geographic location of the existing State or Tribal veteran cemetery and any other supporting documentation, as requested by the VCGS Director.
(12) A description of the project including the number and types of headstones and markers that need to be cleaned and aligned, a description of the gravesites that need to be leveled, and a description of the turf conditions that need to be improved to meet VA's national shrine standards.
(c) In addition, the State or Tribal Organization must submit written assurance of each of the following conditions:
(1) Any cemetery in receipt of a grant under this subpart will be used exclusively for the interment or memorialization of eligible persons, as set forth in § 39.10(a), whose interment or memorialization is not contrary to the conditions of the grant (see § 39.10(b) and 38 U.S.C. 2408(d) and 2411).
(2) Title to the site is or will be vested solely in the State or held in trust for the Tribal Organization on trust land.
(3) The State or Tribal Organization possesses legal authority to apply for the grant.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(3):
In any case where a Tribal Organization is applying for a grant for a cemetery on land held in trust for more than one Indian Tribe, written assurance that the Tribal Organization possesses legal authority to apply for the grant includes certification that the Tribal Organization has obtained the approval of each such Indian Tribe.
(4) The State or Tribal Organization will obtain approval by VA of the final specifications before the project is advertised or placed on the market for bidding; the project will achieve VA's national shrine standards with respect to cleanliness, height and alignment of headstones and markers, leveling of gravesites, or turf conditions in accordance with the application and approved plans and specifications; the State or Tribal Organization will submit to the Director of the Veterans Cemetery Grants Service, for prior approval, changes that alter any cost of the project; and the State or Tribal Organization will not enter into a contract for the project or undertake other activities until all the requirements of the grant program have been met.
(d) Depending on the scope of the project, the VCGS will work with the State or Tribal Organization to determine which, if any, of the following are required:
(1) Compliance with section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended (16 U.S.C. 470), Executive Order 11593 (identification and protection of historic properties), and the Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 469a-1
et seq.
).
(2) Compliance with the Federal requirements in 2 CFR parts 180, 200, and 801 and submission of Standard Form 424D (Assurances—Construction Programs).
(3) A site Environmental Assessment to determine whether an Environmental Impact Statement will be necessary as a result of the work to be performed on the headstones and markers, gravesites, or turf conditions.
(e) Upon receipt of a complete preapplication for a grant, including all necessary assurances and all required supporting documentation, VA will determine whether the preapplication conforms to all requirements listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, including whether it contains sufficient information necessary to establish the project's priority. VA will notify the State or Tribal Organization of any nonconformity. If the preapplication does conform, VA shall notify the State or Tribal Organization that the preapplication has been found to meet the preapplication requirements, and the proposed project will be included in the next scheduled ranking of projects, as indicated in § 39.3(d).
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 4040-0004, 4040-0008, 4040-0009, and 2900-0559)
(Authority: 25 U.S.C. 450b(l); 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408, 2411)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4477, Jan. 30, 2012; 80 FR 43322, July 22, 2015]
§ 39.82
Plan preparation.
(a) The State or Tribal Organization must successfully complete its plan preparation under this section before submitting a grant application for an Operation and Maintenance Project. The State or Tribal Organization may be required to undertake some or all of the following requirements of this section. After submitting all necessary plans and specifications to the VCGS and obtaining approval for the State or Tribal Organization to solicit for the Operation and Maintenance Project contract bids, the State or Tribal Organization shall:
(1) Obtain bids and determine the successful bidder;
(2) Establish procedures for determining that costs are reasonable and
necessary and can be allocated in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 and submit documentation of such determinations to VA; and
(3) Comply with the uniform requirements for grants-in-aid to State, Tribal and local governments prescribed by 2 CFR part 200.
(b) Depending on the scope of the project, the VCGS will work with the State or Tribal Organization to determine which of the following will be required prior to submission of an application. As determined by VA, these may include:
(1) A boundary and site survey comprising a survey and legal description of the existing State or Tribal cemetery site;
(2) Project drawings indicating the cemetery section(s) to be impacted by the Operation and Maintenance Project, gravesite section layout with permanent section monument markers and lettering system, and the total number of gravesites to be impacted;
(3) Project specifications (to be used for bid purposes), which shall include the invitation for bid, cover or title sheet, index, general requirements, form of bid bond, form of agreement, performance and payment bond forms, and detailed descriptions of materials and workmanship for the work to be performed to meet VA's national shrine standards;
(4) A detailed estimate of the total cost of the work to be performed under the contract; or
(5) A site Environmental Assessment meeting the provisions of § 39.34(b) to determine if an Environmental Impact Statement is necessary for compliance with section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4332), as a result of the work to be performed on the headstones and markers, gravesites, or turf conditions.
(c) If VA determines that the project's plans and specifications comply with the terms and conditions prescribed by VA, VA will send the State or Tribal Organization a written letter of approval indicating that the project's plans and specifications comply with the terms and conditions as prescribed by VA. This does not constitute approval of the contract documents. It is the responsibility of the State or Tribal Organization to ascertain that all State and Federal requirements have been met and that the drawings and specifications are acceptable for bid purposes.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirement in this section under control number 2900-0559)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4477, Jan. 30, 2012; 80 FR 43322, July 22, 2015]
§ 39.83
Conferences.
(a)
Planning conference.
The VCGS may require planning conferences for Operation and Maintenance Projects, primarily to ensure that the State or Tribal Organization becomes oriented to VA's national shrine standards, procedures, requirements, and any technical comments pertaining to the project. These conferences will normally occur over the telephone.
(b)
Additional conferences.
At any time, VA may recommend an additional telephone conference to provide an opportunity for the State or Tribal Organization to discuss with VA officials the requirements for an Operation and Maintenance Project grant.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4478, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.84
Application requirements.
For an Operation and Maintenance Project to be considered for grant funding under this subpart, the State or Tribal Organization must submit an application (as opposed to a preapplication) consisting of the following:
(a) Standard Form 424 (Application for Federal Assistance) with the box labeled “application” marked;
(b) Standard Form 424C (Budget Information), which documents the amount of funds requested based on the construction costs as estimated by the successful construction bid;
(c) A copy of itemized bid tabulations; and
(d) Standard Form 424D (Assurances—Construction Program).
(e) VA Form 40-0895-11 (Memorandum of Agreement for a Grant to Construct
or Modify a State or Tribal Government Veterans Cemetery) to identify the parties (VA and applicant), identify the scope of the project, and indicate how the grant award funds will be paid to the applicant.
(f) VA Form 40-0895-12 (Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions (Contractor)) to ensure that the contractor has not been debarred or suspended, and is eligible to participate in the VA grant process and receive Federal funds.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 4040-0002, 4040-0008, 4040-0009, and 2900-0559)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4478, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.85
Final review and approval of application.
Following VA approval of bid tabulations and cost estimates, the complete Operation and Maintenance Project grant application will be reviewed for approval in accordance with the requirements of § 39.80. If the application is approved, the grant will be awarded by a Memorandum of Agreement of Federal grant funds.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
§§ 39.86-39.99
[Reserved]

# Award of Grant
§ 39.100
Amount of grant.
(a) The amount of an Operation and Maintenance Project grant awarded under this subpart may not exceed 100 percent of the total cost of the project, but may be less than total cost of the project.
(b) The total cost of a project under this subpart may include any or all of the following costs:
(1) Administration and design costs, e.g., architectural and engineering fees, inspection fees, and printing and advertising costs.
(2) Construction costs.
(3) The cost of VA-approved equipment that is necessary for the completion of the project.
(c) The total cost of a project under this subpart may not include the cost of any of the following:
(1) Land acquisition;
(2) Buildings of any type;
(3) Improvements not on cemetery land, such as access roads or utilities;
(4) Office supplies or consumable goods (such as fuel and fertilizer) that are routinely used in a cemetery; or
(5) Project contingency costs.
(d) VA shall certify approved applications to the Secretary of the Treasury in the amount of the grant, and shall designate the appropriation from which it shall be paid. Funds paid for the operation and maintenance of a veterans cemetery must be used solely for carrying out approved projects.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
§ 39.101
Payment of grant award.
The amount of an Operation and Maintenance Project grant award will be paid to the State or Tribal Organization or, if designated by the State or Tribal Organization representative, the State or Tribal veterans cemetery for which such project is being carried out, or to any other State or Tribal Organization agency or instrumentality. Such amount shall be paid by way of reimbursement and in installments that are consistent with the progress of the project, as the Director of the Veterans Cemetery Grants Service may determine and certify for payment to the appropriate Federal institution. Funds paid under this section for an approved Operation and Maintenance Project shall be used solely for carrying out such project as approved. As a condition for the final payment, the State or Tribal representative must submit to VA each of the following:
(a) Standard Form 271 (Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs);
(b) A report on the project accomplishments in accordance with § 39.120 and a request in writing for the final architectural/engineering inspection, including the name and telephone number of the local point of contact for the project;
(c) The written statement, “It is hereby agreed that the monetary commitment of the Federal government will have been met and the project will
be considered terminated upon payment of this voucher.”; and
(d) Evidence that the State or Tribal Organization has met its responsibility for an audit under the Single Audit Act of 1984 (31 U.S.C. 7501
et seq.
) and § 39.122.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 0348-0002)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4478, Jan. 30, 2012]
§§ 39.102-39.119
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Grant Recipient Responsibilities, Inspections, and Reports Following Project Completion
§ 39.120
Documentation of grant accomplishments.
Within 60 days of completion of an Operation and Maintenance Project, the State or Tribal Organization must submit to VCGS a written report regarding the work performed to meet VA's national shrine standards. This report must be based on the original justification for the grant as noted in § 39.81(b)(10) and must include statistical data and detailed pictures of the work accomplished.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4478, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.121
State or Tribal Organization responsibilities following project completion.
(a) A State or Tribal Organization that has received an Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project grant or an Operation and Maintenance Project grant shall monitor use of the cemetery by various subgroups and minority groups, including women veterans. If VA determines that under-utilization by any of these groups exists, the State or Tribal Organization shall establish a program to inform members of these groups about benefits available to them. If a significant number or portion of the population eligible to be served or likely to be directly affected by the grant program needs benefits information in a language other than English, the State or Tribal Organization shall make such information available in the necessary language.
(b) A State or Tribal veterans cemetery that has received an Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Project grant or an Operation and Maintenance Project grant shall be operated and maintained as follows:
(1) Buildings, grounds, roads, walks, and other structures shall be kept in reasonable repair to prevent undue deterioration and hazards to users.
(2) The cemetery shall be kept open for public use at reasonable hours based on the time of the year.
(c) VA, in coordination with the State or Tribal Organization, shall inspect the project for compliance with the standards set forth in subpart B of this part for Establishment, Expansion, and Improvement Projects and with the standards set forth in subpart C of this part for Operation and Maintenance Projects at the project's completion and at least once in every 3-year period following completion of the project throughout the period the facility is operated as a State or Tribal veterans cemetery. The State or Tribal Organization shall forward to the Director, Veterans Cemetery Grants Service, a copy of the inspection report, giving the date and location the inspection was made and citing any deficiencies and corrective action to be taken or proposed.
(d) Failure of a State or Tribal Organization to comply with any of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section shall be considered cause for VA to suspend any payments due the State or Tribal Organization on any project until the compliance failure is corrected.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408; and E.O. 13166, 65 FR 50121)
[75 FR 34005, June 16, 2010, as amended at 77 FR 4478, Jan. 30, 2012]
§ 39.122
Inspections, audits, and reports.
(a) A State or Tribal organization will allow VA inspectors and auditors to conduct inspections as necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this part and with provisions of § 38.629 of this chapter regarding outer burial receptacles. The State or Tribal
organization will provide to VA evidence that it has met its responsibilities under the Single Audit Act of 1984.
(b) A State or Tribal Organization will make an annual report on VA Form 40-0241 (State Cemetery Data) signed by the authorized representative of the State or Tribal Organization. These forms document current burial activity at the cemetery, use of gravesites, remaining gravesites, and additional operational information intended to answer questions about the status of the grant program.
(c) A State or Tribal Organization will complete and submit to VA a VA Form 40-0895-13 (Certification Regarding Documents and Information Required for State or Tribal Government Cemetery Construction Grants-Post Grant Requirements) to ensure that the grantee is aware of and complies with all grant responsibilities and to properly and timely close out the grant.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0559)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2408)
[77 FR 4478, Jan. 30, 2012, as amended at 80 FR 43322, July 22, 2015; 89 FR 82182, Oct. 10, 2024]
Pt. 40

# PART 40—INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVIEW OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES
Sec.
40.1
Purpose.
40.2
Definitions.
40.3
Programs and activities.
40.4
General.
40.5
Federal interagency coordination.
40.6
Selection of programs and activities.
40.7
Communicating with State and local officials concerning VA's programs and activities.
40.8
Commenting on proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development.
40.9
Comment receipt and response to comments.
40.10
Making efforts to accommodate intergovernmental concerns.
40.11
Interstate.
40.12
[Reserved]
40.13
Waiver.

# Authority:
E.O. 12372, July 14, 1982 (47 FR 30959), as amended April 8, 1983 (48 FR 15887): section 401 of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968, as amended (31 U.S.C. 6506); sec. 204 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966, as amended (42 U.S.C. 3334).

# Source:
48 FR 29413, June 24, 1983; 48 FR 31854, July 12, 1983, unless otherwise noted.
§ 40.1
Purpose.
(a) The regulations in this part implement Executive Order 12372, “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs”, issued on July 14, 1982 and amended on April 8, 1983. These regulations also implement applicable provisions of section 401 of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968 and section 204 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966.
(b) These regulations are intended to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened Federalism by relying on State processes and on State, areawide, regional, and local coordination for review of proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development.
(c) These regulations are intended to improve the internal management of the VA, and are not intended to create any right or benefit enforceable at law by a party against the VA or its officers.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of §§ 40.1 through 40.13, the following definitions apply:
(a)
VA
means the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(b)
Order
means Executive Order 12372, issued July 14, 1982, and amended April 8, 1983, and titled “Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.”
(c)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs of the Department of Veterans Affairs or an official or employee of VA acting for the Secretary under delegation of authority.
(d)
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
(e)
Emergency
means a sudden, urgent, unforeseen situation in which immediate action is needed to prevent or respond to significant harm to life or property. Harm to property would include damage to the environment.
(f)
Unusual circumstances
means the end of a fiscal year, a statutory deadline or any other circumstance making it impracticable for the agency to provide 60 days for comment.
(g)
Affected
means for purposes of interstate situations those States physically affected by the specific plans and projects.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.3
Programs and activities.
The Secretary publishes in the
Federal Register
a list of VA's programs and activities that are subject to these regulations and identifies which of these are subject to the requirements of section 204 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.4
General.
(a) The Secretary provides opportunities for consultation by elected officials of those State and local governments that would provide the non-Federal funds for, or that would be directly affected by, proposed Federal financial assistance from, or direct Federal development by, VA.
(b) If a State adopts a process under the order to review and coordinate proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development, the Secretary, to the extent permitted by law:
(1) Uses the State process to determine official views of State and local elected officials;
(2) Communicates with State and local elected officials as early in a program planning cycle as is reasonably feasible to explain specific plans and actions;
(3) Makes efforts to accommodate State and local elected officials' concerns with proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development that are communicated through the State process;
(4) Seeks the coordination of views of affected State and local elected officials in one State with those of another State when proposed Federal financial assistance or direct Federal development has an impact on interstate metropolitan urban centers or other interstate areas; and
(5) Supports State and local governments by discouraging the reauthorization or creation of any planning organization which is federally-funded, which has a limited purpose, and which is not adequately representative of, or accountable to, State or local elected officials.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.5
Federal interagency coordination.
The Secretary, to the extent practicable, consults with and seeks advice from all other substantially affected Federal departments and agencies in an effort to assure full coordination between such agencies and VA regarding programs and activities covered under these regulations.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.6
Selection of programs and activities.
(a) A State may select any program or activity published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 40.3 of this part, for intergovernmental review under these regulations. Each State, before selecting programs and activities shall consult with local elected officials.
(b) Each State that adopts a process shall notify the Secretary of the VA's programs and activities selected for that process.
(c) A State may notify the Secretary of changes in its selections at any time. For each change, the State shall submit to the Secretary an assurance that the State has consulted with local elected officials regarding the change. The VA may establish deadlines by which States are required to inform the Secretary of changes in their program selections.
(d) The Secretary uses a State's process as soon as feasible, depending on individual programs and activities, after the Secretary is notified of its selections.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.7
Communicating with State and local officials concerning VA's programs and activities.
The Secretary provides notice to directly affected State, areawide, regional, and local entities in a State of proposed Federal financial assistance or direct Federal development if:
(a) The State has not adopted a process under the order; or
(b) The assistance or development involves a program or activity not selected for the State process.
This notice may be made by publication in the
Federal Register
or other appropriate means, which VA in its discretion deems appropriate.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.8
Commenting on proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development.
(a) Except in unusual circumstances, the Secretary gives State processes or State, areawide, regional and local officials and entities at least 60 days from the date established by the Secretary to comment on proposed direct Federal development or Federal financial assistance.
(b) This section also applies to comments in cases in which the review, coordination, and communication with VA have been delegated.
(c) Applicants for programs and activities subject to section 204 of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Act shall allow areawide agencies a 60-day opportunity for review and comment.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.9
Comment receipt and response to comments.
(a) The Secretary follows the procedures in § 40.10 if:
(1) A State office or official is designated to act as a single point of contact between a State process and all Federal agencies, and
(2) That office or official transmits a State process recommendation for a program selected under § 40.6.
(b)(1) The single point of contact is not obligated to transmit comments from State, areawide, regional or local officials and entities where there is no State process recommendation.
(2) If a State process recommendation is transmitted by a single point of contact, all comments from State, areawide, regional, and local officials and entities that differ from it must also be transmitted.
(c) If a State has not established a process, or is unable to submit a State process recommendation, State, areawide, regional and local officials and entities may submit comments either to the applicant or to VA.
(d) If a program or activity is not selected for a State process, State, areawide, regional and local officials and entities may submit comments either to the applicant or to VA. In addition, if a State process recommendation for a nonselected program or activity is transmitted to VA by the single point of contact, the Secretary follows the procedures of § 40.10 of this part.
(e) The Secretary considers comments which do not constitute a State process recommendation submitted under these regulations and for which the Secretary is not required to apply the procedures of § 40.10 of this part, when such comments are provided by a single point of contact, by the applicant, or directly to the VA by a commenting party.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.10
Making efforts to accommodate intergovernmental concerns.
(a) If a State process provides a State process recommendation to VA through its single point of contact, the Secretary either:
(1) Accepts the recommendation;
(2) Reaches a mutually agreeable solution with the State process; or
(3) Provides the single point of contact with such written explanation of the decision, as the Secretary in his or her discretion deems appropriate. The Secretary may also supplement the written explanation by providing the explanation to the single point of contact by telephone, other telecommunication, or other means.
(b) In any explanation under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Secretary informs the single point of contact that:
(1) The VA will not implement its decision for at least ten days after the
single point of contact receives the explanation; or
(2) The Secretary has reviewed the decision and determined that, because of unusual circumstances, the waiting period of at least ten days is not feasible.
(c) For purposes of computing the waiting period under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a single point of contact is presumed to have received written notification five days after the date of mailing of such notification.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.11
Interstate.
(a) The Secretary is responsible for:
(1) Identifying proposed Federal financial assistance and direct Federal development that have an impact on interstate areas;
(2) Notifying appropriate officials and entities in States which have adopted a process and which select VA's program or activity.
(3) Making efforts to identify and notify the affected State, areawide, regional, and local officials and entities in those States that have not adopted a process under the order or do not select VA's program or activity;
(4) Responding pursuant to § 40.10 of this part if the Secretary receives a recommendation from a designated areawide agency transmitted by a single point of contact, in cases in which the review, coordination, and communication with VA have been delegated, or
(b) The Secretary uses the procedures in § 40.10 if a State process provides a State process recommendation to VA through a single point of contact.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
§ 40.12
[Reserved]
§ 40.13
Waiver.
In an emergency, the Secretary may waive any provision of these regulations.
(Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4231(b))
Pt. 42

# PART 42—STANDARDS IMPLEMENTING THE PROGRAM FRAUD CIVIL REMEDIES ACT
Sec.
42.1
Basis and purpose.
42.2
Definitions.
42.3
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
42.4
Investigation.
42.5
Review by the reviewing official.
42.6
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
42.7
Complaint.
42.8
Service of complaint.
42.9
Answer.
42.10
Default upon failure to file an answer.
42.11
Referral of complaint and answer to the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ).
42.12
Notice of hearing.
42.13
Parties to the hearing.
42.14
Separation of functions.
42.15
Ex parte contacts.
42.16
Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.
42.17
Rights of parties.
42.18
Authority of the ALJ.
42.19
Prehearing conferences.
42.20
Disclosure of documents.
42.21
Discovery.
42.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.
42.23
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
42.24
Protective order.
42.25
Fees.
42.26
Form, filing and service of papers.
42.27
Computation of time.
42.28
Motions.
42.29
Sanctions.
42.30
The hearing and burden of proof.
42.31
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
42.32
Location of hearing.
42.33
Witnesses.
42.34
Evidence.
42.35
The record.
42.36
Post-hearing briefs.
42.37
Initial decision.
42.38
Reconsideration of initial decision.
42.39
Appeal to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
42.40
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
42.41
Stay pending appeal.
42.42
Judicial review.
42.43
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
42.44
Right to administrative offset.
42.45
Deposit in Treasury of United States.
42.46
Compromise and settlement.
42.47
Limitations.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 99-509, secs. 6101-6104, 100 Stat. 1874, codified at 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812.

# Source:
53 FR 16710, May 11, 1988, unless otherwise noted.
§ 42.1
Basis and purpose.
(a)
Basis.
This part implements the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act of 1986, Pub. L. 99-509, 6101-6104, 100 Stat. 1874 (October 21, 1986), to be codified at 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812. Section 3809 of title 31 U.S.C., requires each authority head, such as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, to promulgate regulations necessary to implement the provisions of the statute.
(b)
Purpose.
This part:
(1) Establishes and provides the only administrative procedures and actions for imposing civil penalties and assessments against persons who make, submit, or present, or cause to be made, submitted, or presented, false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or written statements to authorities or to their agents, and
(2) Specifies the hearing and appeal rights of persons subject to allegations of liability for such penalties and assessments.
§ 42.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
ALJ
means an Administrative Law Judge in the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or detailed to the Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3344.
Benefit
means, in the context of statement, anything of value, including, but not limited to, any advantage, preference, privilege, license, permit, favorable decision, ruling, status, or loan guarantee.
Claim
means any request, demand, or submission—
(a) Made to the Department of Veterans Affairs for property, services, or money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits);
(b) Made to a recipient of property, services, or money from the Department of Veterans Affairs or to a party to a contract with the Department of Veterans Affairs—
(1) For property or services if the United States—
(i) Provided the property or services;
(ii) Provided any portion of the funds for the purchase of the property or services; or
(iii) Will reimburse the recipient or party for the purchase of the property or services; or
(2) For the payment of money (including money representing grants, loans, insurance, or benefits) if the United States—
(i) Provided any portion of the money requested or demanded; or
(ii) Will reimburse the recipient or party for any portion of the money paid on the request or demand; or
(iii) Made to the Department of Veterans Affairs which has the effect of decreasing an obligation to pay or account for property, services, or money.
Complaint
means the administrative complaint served by the reviewing official on the defendant under § 42.7 of this part.
Defendant
means any person alleged in a complaint under § 42.7 of this part to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 42.3 of this part.
Government
means the United States Government.
Individual
means a natural person.
Initial Decision
means the written decision of the ALJ required by § 42.10 or § 42.37 of this part, and includes a revised initial decision issued following a remand or a motion for reconsideration.
Investigating official
means the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs or an officer or employee of the Office of the Inspector General and serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.
Knows or has reason to know
means that a person, with respect to a claim or statement—
(a) Has actual knowledge that the claim or statement is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(b) Acts in deliberate ignorance of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement; or
(c) Acts in reckless disregard of the truth or falsity of the claim or statement.
Makes,
wherever it appears, shall include the terms presents, submits, and causes to be made, presented, or submitted. As the context requires,
making
or
made,
shall likewise include the corresponding forms of such terms.
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association or private organization and includes the plural of that term.
Representative
means any person designated by a party in writing.
Reviewing official
means the General Counsel of the Department of Veterans Affairs or designee who is—
(a) Not subject to supervision by, or required to report to, the investigating official;
(b) Not employed in the organization unit of the Department of Veterans Affairs in which the investigating official is employed; and
(c) Serving in a position for which the rate of basic pay is not less than the minimum rate of basic pay for grade GS-16 under the General Schedule.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Statement
means any representation, certification, affirmation, document, record, or accounting or bookkeeping entry made—
(a) With respect to a claim or to obtain the approval or payment of a claim (including relating to eligibility to make a claim); or
(b) With respect to (including relating to eligibility for)—
(1) A contract with, or a bid or proposal for a contract with; or
(2) A grant, loan, or benefit from, the Department of Veterans Affairs, or any State, political subdivision of a State, or other party, if the United States Government provides any portion of the money or property under the contract or for the grant, loan, or benefit, or if the Government will reimburse such State, political subdivision, or party for any portion of the money or property under the contract or for the grant, loan, or benefit.
[53 FR 16710, May 11, 1988, as amended at 54 FR 34988, Aug. 23, 1989]
§ 42.3
Basis for civil penalties and assessments.
(a)
Claims.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a claim that the person knows or has reason to know—
(i) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(ii) Includes or is supported by any written statement which asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent;
(iii) Includes or is supported by any written statement that—
(A) Omits a material fact;
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent as a result of such omission; and
(C) Is a statement in which the person making the statement has a duty to include the material fact; or
(iv) Is for payment for the provision of property or services which the person has not provided as claimed, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $14,308 for each claim.
(2) Each voucher, invoice, claim form, or other individual request or demand for property, services, or money constitutes a separate claim.
(3) A claim shall be considered made to the Department of Veterans Affairs, or to a recipient or party when such claim is actually made to an agency, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the Department of Veterans Affairs, recipient, or party.
(4) Each claim for property, services, or money is subject to a civil penalty regardless of whether the property, services, or money is actually delivered or paid.
(5) If the Government has made any payment (including transferred property or provided services) on a claim, a person subject to a civil penalty under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall also be subject to an assessment of not more than twice the amount of the claim or that portion thereof that is determined to be in violation of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Such assessment shall be in lieu of damages by the Government because of the claim.
(b)
Statements.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any person who makes a written statement that—
(i) The person knows or has reason to know—
(A) Asserts a material fact which is false, fictitious, or fraudulent; or
(B) Is false, fictitious, or fraudulent because it omits a material fact that
the person making the statement has a duty to include in the statement; and
(ii) Contains or is accompanied by an express certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of the statement, shall be subject, in addition to any other remedy that may be prescribed by law, to a civil penalty of not more than $14,308 for each statement.
(2) Each written representation, certification, or affirmation constitutes a separate statement, except that a certification or affirmation of the truthfulness and accuracy of the contents of a statement is not a separate statement.
(3) A statement shall be considered made to the Department of Veterans Affairs when the statement is actually made to an agent, fiscal intermediary, or other entity, including any State or political subdivision thereof, acting for or on behalf of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(c)
Applications for certain benefits.
(1) In the case of any claim or statement made by an individual relating to any of the benefits listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section received by the individual, the individual may be held liable for penalties and assessments under this section only if such claim or statement is made by the individual in making application for such benefits with respect to any element required to establish the individual's initial eligibility to receive or continue to receive the benefits.
(2) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, the term
benefits
means benefits under chapters 11, 13, 15, 17, and 21 of title 38 which are intended for the personal use of the individual who receives the benefits or for a member of the individual's family.
(3) For purposes of this paragraph, the term
application
shall include, but is not limited to, any report or statement made or submitted by or for applicant or recipient of a benefit under chapters 11, 13, or 15 of title 38, United States Code, to establish eligibility or to remain eligible for the benefit.
(4) This paragraph is not applicable to an individual receiving benefits in a fiduciary capacity in behalf of an individual eligible for any of the benefits listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d) No proof of specific intent to defraud is required to establish liability under this section.
(e) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim or statement under this section, each person making the claim or statement may be held liable for a civil penalty under this section.
(f) In any case in which it is determined that more than one person is liable for making a claim under this section on which the Government has made a payment (including transferred property or provided services), an assessment may be imposed against any of these persons or jointly and severally against any combination of these persons.
(Authority: 28 U.S.C. 2461; 31 U.S.C. 3802)
[53 FR 16710, May 11, 1988, as amended at 61 FR 56449, Nov. 1, 1996; 81 FR 40525, June 22, 2016; 83 FR 8946, Mar. 2, 2018; 84 FR 537, Jan. 31, 2019; 85 FR 7232, Feb. 7, 2020; 86 FR 7813, Feb. 2, 2021; 87 FR 3226, Jan. 21, 2022; 88 FR 986, Jan. 6, 2023; 89 FR 1460, Jan. 10, 2024; 90 FR 1903, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 42.4
Investigation.
(a) All allegations of liability under § 42.3 shall be promptly referred to the investigating official.
(b) If an investigating official concludes that a subpoena pursuant to the authority conferred by 31 U.S.C. 3804(a) is warranted—
(1) The subpoena so issued shall notify the person to whom it is addressed of the authority under which the subpoena is issued and shall identify the records or documents sought;
(2) The investigating official may designate a person to act on his or her behalf to receive the documents sought; and
(3) The person receiving the subpoena shall be required to tender to the investigating official or the person designated to receive the documents a certification that the documents sought have been produced, or that the documents are not available and the reasons therefor, or that the documents, suitably identified, have been withheld based upon the assertion of an identified privilege.
(c) If the investigating official concludes that an action under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act may be warranted, the investigating official shall submit a report containing the findings and conclusions of the investigation to the reviewing official.
(d) Nothing in this section shall preclude or limit an investigating official's discretion to refer allegations directly to the Department of Justice for suit under the False Claims Act or other civil relief, or to defer or postpone a report or referral to the reviewing official to avoid interference with a criminal investigation or prosecution.
(e) Nothing in this section modifies any responsibility of an investigating official to report violations of criminal law to the Attorney General.
§ 42.5
Review by the reviewing official.
(a) The report of the investigating official will be examined by the reviewing official to determine if there is adequate evidence to believe a person is liable under § 42.3 of this part. The review will be completed within 90 days.
(b) If, based on the report of the investigating official under § 42.4(b) of this part, the reviewing official determines that there is adequate evidence to believe that a person is liable under § 42.3 of this part, the reviewing official shall transmit to the Attorney General a written notice of the reviewing official's intention to issue a complaint under § 42.7 of this part.
(c) The notice shall include—
(1) A statement of the reviewing official's reasons for issuing a complaint;
(2) A statement specifying the evidence that supports the allegations of liability;
(3) A description of the claims or statements upon which the allegations of liability are based;
(4) An estimate of the amount of money or the value of property, services, or other benefits requested or demanded in violation of § 42.3 of this part;
(5) A statement of any exculpatory or mitigating circumstances that may relate to the claims or statements known by the reviewing official or the investigating official; and
(6) A statement that there is a reasonable prospect of collecting an appropriate amount of penalties and assessments.
(d) If the reviewing official finds that there is not adequate evidence that a person is liable, the reviewing official will inform the department or office of the Department of Veterans Affairs concerned with the claim or statement and the investigating official.
§ 42.6
Prerequisites for issuing a complaint.
(a) The reviewing official may issue a complaint under § 42.7 of this part only if—
(1) The Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in a written statement described in 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), and
(2) In the case of allegations of liability under § 42.3 of this part with respect to a claim, the reviewing official determines that, with respect to the claim or a group of related claims submitted at the same time such claim is submitted (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section), the amount of money or the value of property or services, or both, demanded or requested in violation of § 42.3(a) of this part does not exceed $150,000.
(b) For the purposes of this section, a related group of claims submitted at the same time shall include only those claims arising from the same transaction (e.g., grant, loan, application, or contract) that are submitted simultaneously as part of a single request, demand, or submission.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the reviewing official's authority to join in a single complaint against a person's claims that are unrelated or were not submitted simultaneously, regardless of the amount of money, or the value of property or services, demanded or requested.
§ 42.7
Complaint.
(a) On or after the date the Department of Justice approves the issuance of a complaint in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3803(b)(1), the reviewing official may serve a complaint on the defendant, as provided in § 42.8 of this part.
(b) The complaint shall state—
(1) The allegations of liability against the defendant, including the
statutory basis for liability, an identification of the claims or statements that are the basis for the alleged liability, and the reasons why liability allegedly arises from the claims or statements;
(2) The maximum amount of penalties and assessments for which the defendant may be held liable;
(3) Instructions for filing an answer to request a hearing, including a specific statement of the defendant's right to request a hearing by filing an answer and to be represented by a representative; and
(4) That failure to file an answer within 30 days of service of the complaint will result in the imposition of the maximum amount of penalties and assessments without right to appeal, as provided in § 42.10 of this part.
(c) The reviewing official shall serve the defendant with a copy of these regulations at the same time as service of the complaint.
§ 42.8
Service of complaint.
(a) Service of a complaint must be made by certified or registered mail or by delivery in any manner authorized by Rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Service is complete upon receipt.
(b) Proof of service, stating the name and address of the person on whom the complaint was served, and the manner and date of service, may be made by—
(1) Affidavit of the individual serving the complaint by delivery;
(2) A United States Postal Service return receipt card acknowledging receipt; or
(3) Written acknowledgment of receipt by the defendant or his or her representative.
§ 42.9
Answer.
(a) The defendant may request a hearing by filing an answer with the reviewing official within 30 days of service of the complaint. An answer shall be deemed to be a request for hearing.
(b) In the answer, the defendant—
(1) Shall admit or deny each of the allegations of liability made in the complaint;
(2) Shall state any defense on which the defendant intends to rely;
(3) May state any reasons why the defendant contends that the penalties and assessments should be less than the statutory maximum; and
(4) Shall state the name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized by the defendant to act as defendant's representative, if any.
(c) If the defendant is unable to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section within the time provided, the defendant may, before the expiration of 30 days from service of the complaint, file with the reviewing official a general answer denying liability and requesting a hearing, and a request for an extension of time within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section. The reviewing official shall file promptly with the ALJ the complaint, the general answer denying liability, and the request for an extension of time as provided in § 42.11 of this part. For good cause shown, the ALJ may grant the defendant up to 30 additional days within which to file an answer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 42.10
Default upon failure to file an answer.
(a) If the defendant does not file an answer within the time prescribed in § 42.9(a) of this part, the reviewing official may refer the complaint to the ALJ.
(b) Upon the referral of the complaint, the ALJ shall promptly serve on the defendant in the manner prescribed in § 42.8 of this part, a notice that an initial decision will be issued under this section.
(c) The ALJ shall assume the facts alleged in the complaint to be true, and, if such facts establish liability under § 42.3 of this part, the ALJ shall issue an initial decision imposing the maximum amount of penalties and assessments allowed under the statute.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in this section, by failing to file a timely answer, the defendant waives any right to further review of the penalties and assessments imposed under paragraph (c) of this section, and the initial decision shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after it is issued.
(e) If, before the initial decision becomes final, the defendant files a motion with the ALJ seeking to reopen on the grounds that extraordinary circumstances prevented the defendant from filing an answer, the initial decision shall be stayed pending the ALJ's decision on the motion.
(f) If, on such motion, the defendant can demonstrate extraordinary circumstances excusing the failure to file a timely answer, the ALJ shall withdraw the initial decision in paragraph (c) of this section, if the decision has been issued, and shall grant the defendant an opportunity to answer the complaint.
(g) A decision of the ALJ denying a defendant's motion under paragraph (e) of this section is not subject to reconsideration under § 42.38 of this part.
(h) The defendant may appeal to the Secretary the decision denying a motion to reopen by filing a notice of appeal with the Secretary within 15 days after the ALJ denies the motion. The timely filing of a notice of appeal shall stay the initial decision until the Secretary decides the issue.
(i) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the Secretary, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Secretary.
(j) The Secretary shall decide expeditiously whether extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer based solely on the record before the ALJ.
(k) If the Secretary decides that extraordinary circumstances excuse the defendant's failure to file a timely answer, the Secretary shall remand the case to the ALJ with instructions to grant the defendant an opportunity to answer.
(l) If the Secretary decides that the defendant's failure to file a timely answer is not excused, the Secretary shall reinstate the initial decision of the ALJ, which shall become final and binding upon the parties 30 days after the authority head issues such decision.
§ 42.11
Referral of complaint and answer to the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ).
Upon receipt of an answer, the reviewing official shall file the complaint and answer with the ALJ.
§ 42.12
Notice of hearing.
(a) When the ALJ receives the complaint and answer, the ALJ shall promptly serve a notice of hearing upon the defendant in the manner prescribed by § 42.8 of this part. At the same time, the ALJ shall send a copy of such notice to the representative for the Government.
(b) The notice shall include—
(1) The tentative time and place, and the nature of the hearing;
(2) The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held;
(3) The matters of fact and law to be asserted;
(4) A description of the procedures for the conduct of the hearing;
(5) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the Government and the defendant, if any; and
(6) Other matters the ALJ deems appropriate.
§ 42.13
Parties to the hearing.
(a) The parties to the hearing shall be the defendant and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(b) Pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3730(c)(5), a private plaintiff under the False Claims Act may participate in these proceedings to the extent authorized by the provisions of that Act.
§ 42.14
Separation of functions.
(a) The investigating official, the reviewing official, and any employee or agent of the Department of Veterans Affairs who takes part in investigating, preparing, or presenting a particular case may not, in the case or a factually related case—
(1) Participate in the hearing as the ALJ;
(2) Participate or advise in the initial decision or the review of the initial decision by the Secretary, except as a witness or a representative in public proceedings; or
(3) Make the collection of penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(b) The ALJ shall not be responsible to, or subject to, the supervision or direction of the investigating official or the reviewing official.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, the representative for the Government may be employed anywhere in the Department of Veterans Affairs, including in the offices of either the investigating official or the reviewing official.
§ 42.15
Ex parte contacts.
No party or person (except employees of the ALJ's office) shall communicate in any way with the ALJ on any matter at issue in a case, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. This provision does not prohibit a person or party from inquiring about the status of a case or asking routine questions concerning administrative functions or procedures.
§ 42.16
Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ.
(a) A reviewing official or ALJ in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time.
(b) A party may file with the ALJ a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or an ALJ. The motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification.
(c) The motion and affidavit shall be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or such objections shall be deemed waived.
(d) The affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of the facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith.
(e) Upon the filing of the motion and affidavit, the ALJ shall proceed no further in the case until the ALJ resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)(1) If the ALJ determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice.
(2) If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the case shall be reassigned promptly to another ALJ.
(3) If the ALJ denies a motion to disqualify, the Secretary may determine the matter only as part of the review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any.
§ 42.17
Rights of parties.
Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may—
(a) Be accompanied, represented, and advised by a representative;
(b) Participate in any conference held by the ALJ;
(c) Conduct discovery;
(d) Agree to stipulations of fact or law, which shall be made part of the record;
(e) Present evidence relevant to the issue at the hearing;
(f) Present and cross-examine witnesses;
(g) Present oral arguments at the hearing as permitted by the ALJ; and
(h) Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing.
§ 42.18
Authority of the ALJ.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made.
(b) The ALJ has the authority to—
(1) Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties;
(2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
(3) Hold conference to identify or simplify the issues, or to consider other matters that may aid in the expeditious disposition of the proceeding;
(4) Administer oaths and affirmations;
(5) Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at deposition or at hearings;
(6) Rule on motions and other procedural matters;
(7) Regulate the scope and timing of discovery;
(8) Regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of representatives and parties;
(9) Examine witnesses;
(10) Receive, rule on, exclude, or limit evidence;
(11) Upon motion of a party, take official notice of facts;
(12) Upon motion of a party, decide cases, in whole or in part, by summary judgment where there is no disputed issue of material fact;
(13) Conduct any conference, argument, or hearing on motions in person or by telephone; and
(14) Exercise any other authority as is necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the ALJ under this part.
(c) The ALJ does not have the authority to find invalid Federal statutes or regulations.
§ 42.19
Prehearing conferences.
(a) The ALJ may schedule prehearing conferences as appropriate.
(b) Upon the motion of any party, the ALJ shall schedule at least one prehearing conference at a reasonable time in advance of the hearing.
(c) The ALJ may use prehearing conferences to discuss the following:
(1) Simplification of the issues;
(2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, including the need for a more definite statement;
(3) Stipulations and admissions of fact or as to the contents and authenticity of documents;
(4) Whether the parties can agree to submission of the case on a stipulated record;
(5) Whether a party chooses to waive appearance at an oral hearing and to submit only documentary evidence (subject to the objection of other parties) and written argument;
(6) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(7) Scheduling dates for the exchange of witness lists and of proposed exhibits;
(8) Discovery;
(9) The time and place for the hearing; and
(10) Other matters that may tend to expedite the fair and just disposition of the proceedings.
(d) The ALJ may issue an order containing all matters agreed upon by the parties or ordered by the ALJ at a prehearing conference.
§ 42.20
Disclosure of documents.
(a) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant may review any relevant and material documents, transcripts, records, and other materials that relate to the allegations set out in the complaint and upon which the findings and conclusions of the investigating official under § 42.4(b) of this part are based, unless the documents are subject to a privilege under Federal law. Upon payment of fees for duplication, the defendant may obtain copies of the documents.
(b) Upon written request to the reviewing official, the defendant also may obtain a copy of all exculpatory information in the possession of the reviewing official or investigating official relating to the allegations in the complaint, even if it is contained in a document that would otherwise be privileged. If the document would otherwise be privileged, only that portion containing exculpatory information must be disclosed.
(c) The notice sent to the Attorney General from the reviewing official as described in § 42.5 of this part is not discoverable under any circumstances.
(d) The defendant may file a motion to compel disclosure of the documents subject to the provision of this section. The motion may only be filed with the ALJ following the filing of an answer pursuant to § 42.9 of this part.
§ 42.21
Discovery.
(a) The following types of discovery are authorized:
(1) Requests for production of documents for inspection and copying;
(2) Requests for admissions of the authenticity of any relevant document or the truth of any relevant fact;
(3) Written interrogatories; and
(4) Depositions.
(b) For the purpose of this section and §§ 42.22 and 42.23 of this part, the term “documents” includes information, documents, reports, answers, records, accounts, papers, and other
data and documentary evidence. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require the creation of a document.
(c) Unless mutually agreed to by the parties, discovery is available only as ordered by the ALJ. The ALJ shall regulate the timing of discovery.
(d)
Motions for discovery.
(1) A party seeking discovery may file a motion with the ALJ. The motion shall be accompanied by a copy of the requested discovery, or in the case of depositions, a summary of the scope of the proposed deposition.
(2) Within ten days of service, a party may file an opposition to the motion and/or a motion for protective order as provided in § 42.24 of this part.
(3) The ALJ may grant a motion for discovery only if the ALJ finds that the discovery sought—
(i) Is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues;
(ii) Is not unduly costly or burdensome;
(iii) Will not unduly delay the proceeding; and
(iv) Does not seek privileged information.
(4) The burden of showing that discovery should be allowed is on the party seeking discovery.
(5) The ALJ may grant discovery subject to a protective order under § 42.24 of this part.
(e)
Depositions.
(1) If a motion for deposition is granted, the ALJ shall issue a subpoena for the deponent, which may require the deponent to produce documents. The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the deposition will be held.
(2) The party seeking to depose shall serve the subpoena in the manner prescribed in § 42.8 of this part.
(3) The deponent may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena or a motion for a protective order within ten days of service.
(4) The party seeking to depose shall provide for the taking of a verbatim transcript of the deposition, which it shall make available to all other parties for inspection and copying.
(f) Each party shall bear its own costs of discovery.
§ 42.22
Exchange of witness lists, statements, and exhibits.
(a) At least 15 days before the hearing or at such other time as may be ordered by the ALJ, the parties shall exchange witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements that the party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with § 42.33(b) of this part. At the time the above documents are exchanged, any party that intends to rely on the transcript of deposition testimony in lieu of live testimony at the hearing, if permitted by the ALJ, shall provide each party with a copy of the specific pages of the transcript it intends to introduce into evidence.
(b) If a party objects, the ALJ shall not admit into evidence the testimony of any witness whose name does not appear on the witness list or any exhibit not provided to the opposing party as provided above unless the ALJ finds good cause for the failure or that there is no prejudice to the objecting party.
(c) Unless another party objects within the time set by the ALJ, documents exchanged in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall be deemed to be authentic for the purpose of admissibility at the hearing.
§ 42.23
Subpoenas for attendance at hearing.
(a) A party wishing to procure the appearance and testimony of any individual at the hearing may request that the ALJ issue a subpoena.
(b) A subpoena requiring the attendance and testimony of an individual may also require the individual to produce documents at the hearing.
(c) A party seeking a subpoena shall file a written request therefor not less than 15 days before the date fixed for the hearing unless otherwise allowed by the ALJ for good cause shown. The request shall specify any documents to be produced and shall designate the witnesses and describe the address and location thereof with sufficient particularity to permit the witnesses to be found.
(d) The subpoena shall specify the time and place at which the witness is
to appear and any documents the witness is to produce.
(e) The party seeking the subpoena shall serve it in the manner prescribed in § 42.8 of this part. A subpoena on a party or upon an individual under the control of a party may be served by first class mail.
(f) A party or the individual to whom the subpoena is directed may file with the ALJ a motion to quash the subpoena within ten days after service or on or before the time specified in the subpoena for compliance if it is less than ten days after service.
§ 42.24
Protective order.
(a) A party or a prospective witness or deponent may file a motion for a protective order with respect to discovery sought by an opposing party or with respect to the hearing, seeking to limit the availability or disclosure of evidence.
(b) In issuing a protective order, the ALJ may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following:
(1) That the discovery not be had;
(2) That the discovery may be had only on specified terms and conditions, including a designation of the time or place;
(3) That discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested;
(4) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters;
(5) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the ALJ;
(6) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed;
(7) That a deposition after being sealed be opened only by order of the ALJ;
(8) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, commercial information, or facts pertaining to any criminal investigation, proceeding, or other administrative investigation only be disclosed in a designated way; or
(9) That the parties simultaneously file specified documents or information enclosed in sealed envelopes to be opened as directed by the ALJ.
§ 42.25
Fees.
The party requesting a subpoena shall pay the cost of the fees and mileage of any witnesses subpoenaed in the amounts that would be payable to a witness in a proceeding in United States District Court. A check for witness fees and mileage shall accompany the subpoena when served, except that when a subpoena is issued on behalf of the Department of Veterans Affairs, a check for witness fees and mileage need not accompany the subpoena.
§ 42.26
Form, filing and service of papers.
(a)
Form.
(1) Documents filed with the ALJ shall include an original and two copies.
(2) Every pleading and paper filed in the proceeding shall contain a caption setting forth the title of the action, the case number assigned by the ALJ, and a designation of the paper (e.g. motion to quash subpoena).
(3) Every pleading and paper shall be signed by, and shall contain the address and telephone number of, the party or the person on whose behalf the paper was filed, or his or her representative.
(4) Papers are considered filed when they are mailed. Date of mailing may be established by a certificate from the party or representative or by proof that the document was sent by certified or registered mail.
(b)
Service.
A party filing a document with the ALJ shall, at the time of filing, serve a copy of such document on every other party. Service upon any party of any document other than those required to be served as prescribed in § 42.8 of this part shall be made by delivering a copy or by placing a copy of the document in the United States mail, postage prepaid and addressed, to the party's last known address. When a party is represented by a representative, service shall be made upon the representative in lieu of the actual party.
(c)
Proof of service.
A certificate of the individual serving the document by personal delivery or by mail, setting
forth the manner of service, shall be proof of service.
§ 42.27
Computation of time.
(a) In computing any period of time under this part or in an order issued thereunder, the time begins with the date following the act, event, or default, and includes the last day of the period, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday observed by the Federal government, in which event it includes the next business day.
(b) When the period of time allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the Federal government shall be excluded from the computation.
(c) Where a document has been served or issued by placing it in the mail, an additional five days will be added to the time permitted for any response.
§ 42.28
Motions.
(a) Any application to the ALJ for an order or ruling shall be by motion. Motions shall state the relief sought, the authority relied upon, and the facts alleged, and shall be filed with the ALJ and served on all other parties.
(b) Except for motions made during a prehearing conference or at the hearing, all motions shall be in writing. The ALJ may require that oral motions be reduced to writing.
(c) Within 15 days after a written motion is served, or such other time as may be fixed by the ALJ, any part may file a response to such motion.
(d) The ALJ may not grant a written motion before the time for filing responses thereto has expired, except upon consent of the parties or following a hearing on the motion, but may overrule or deny the motion without awaiting a response.
(e) The ALJ shall make a reasonable effort to dispose of all outstanding motions prior to the beginning of the hearing.
§ 42.29
Sanctions.
(a) The ALJ may sanction a person, including any party or representative for—
(1) Failing to comply with an order, rule, or procedure governing the proceeding;
(2) Failing to prosecute or defend an action; or
(3) Engaging in other misconduct that interferes with the speedy, orderly, or fair conduct of the hearing.
(b) Any sanction, including but not limited to those listed in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section, shall reasonably relate to the severity and nature of the failure or misconduct.
(c) When a party fails to comply with an order, including an order for taking a deposition, the production of evidence within the party's control, or a request for admission, the ALJ may—
(1) Draw an inference in favor of the requesting party with regard to the information sought;
(2) In the case of requests for admission, deem each matter of which an admission is requested to be admitted;
(3) Prohibit the party failing to comply with the order from introducing evidence concerning, or otherwise relying upon, testimony relating to the information sought; and
(4) Strike any part of the pleadings or other submissions of the party failing to comply with the request.
(d) If a party fails to prosecute or defend an action under this part commenced by service of a notice of hearing, the ALJ may dismiss the action or may issue an initial decision imposing penalties and assessments.
(e) The ALJ may refuse to consider any motion, request, response, brief or other document which is not filed in a timely fashion.
§ 42.30
The hearing and burden of proof.
(a) The ALJ shall conduct a hearing on the record in order to determine whether the defendant is liable for a civil penalty or assessment under § 42.3 of this part and, if so, the appropriate amount of any civil penalty or assessment considering any aggravating or mitigating factors.
(b) The Department of Veterans Affairs shall prove defendant's liability and any aggravating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) The defendant shall prove any affirmative defenses and any mitigating factors by a preponderance of the evidence.
(d) The hearing shall be open to the public unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ for good cause shown.
§ 42.31
Determining the amount of penalties and assessments.
(a) In determining an appropriate amount of civil penalties and assessments, the ALJ and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, upon appeal, should evaluate any circumstances that mitigate or aggravate the violation and should articulate in their opinions the reasons that support the penalties and assessments they impose. Because of the intangible costs of fraud, the expense of investigating the conduct, and the need to deter others who might be similarly tempted, ordinarily double damages and a significant civil penalty should be imposed.
(b) Although not exhaustive, the following factors are among those that may influence the ALJ and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in determining the amount of penalties and assessments to impose with respect to the misconduct (
i.e.
, the false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements) charged in the complaint:
(1) The number of false, fictitious, or fraudulent claims or statements;
(2) The time period over which the claims or statements were made;
(3) The degree of the defendant's culpability with respect to the misconduct;
(4) The amount of money or the value of the property, services, or benefit falsely claimed;
(5) The value of the Government's actual loss as a result of the misconduct, including foreseeable consequential damages and the costs of investigation;
(6) The relationship of the amount imposed as civil penalties to the amount of the Government's loss;
(7) The potential or actual impact of the misconduct upon national defense, public health or safety, or public confidence in the management of Government programs and operations, including particularly the impact on the intended beneficiaries of the programs;
(8) Whether the defendant has engaged in a pattern of the same or similar misconduct;
(9) Whether the defendant attempted to conceal the misconduct;
(10) The degree to which the defendant has involved others in the misconduct or in concealing it;
(11) Where the misconduct of employees or agents is imputed to the defendant, the extent to which the defendant's practices fostered or attempted to preclude such misconduct;
(12) Whether the defendant cooperated in or obstructed an investigation of the misconduct;
(13) Whether the defendant assisted in identifying or prosecuting other wrongdoers;
(14) The complexity of the program or transaction, and the degree of the defendant's sophistication with respect to it, including the extent of the defendant's prior participation in the program or in similar transactions;
(15) Whether the defendant has been found, in any criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding to have engaged in similar misconduct or to have dealt dishonestly with the Government of the United States or of a State, directly or indirectly; and
(16) The need to deter the defendant and others from engaging in the same or similar misconduct.
§ 42.32
Location of hearing.
(a) The hearing may be held—
(1) In any judicial district of the United States in which the defendant resides or transacts business;
(2) In any judicial district of the United States in which the claim or statement in issue was made; or
(3) Any place as may be agreed upon by the defendant and the ALJ.
(b) Each party shall have the opportunity to present argument with respect to the location of the hearing.
(c) The hearing shall be held at a place and time ordered by the ALJ.
§ 42.33
Witnesses.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, testimony at the hearing shall be given orally by witnesses under oath or affirmation.
(b) At the discretion of the ALJ, testimony may be admitted in the form of a written statement or deposition. Any written statement must be provided to all other parties along with the last known address of such witness, in a manner which allows sufficient time
for other parties to subpoena the witness for cross-examination at the hearing. Prior written statements of witnesses proposed to testify at the hearing and deposition transcripts shall be exchanged as provided in § 42.22(a) of this part.
(c) The ALJ shall exercise reasonable control over the mode and order of interrogating witnesses and presenting evidence so as to:
(1) Make the interrogation and presentation effective for the ascertainment of the truth,
(2) Avoid needless consumption of time, and
(3) Protect witnesses from harassment or undue embarrassment.
(d) The ALJ shall permit the parties to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(e) At the discretion of the ALJ, a witness may be cross-examined on matters relevant to the proceeding without regard to the scope of the direct examination. To the extent permitted by the ALJ, cross-examination on matters outside the scope of direct examination shall be conducted in the manner of direct examination and may proceed by leading questions only if the witness is a hostile witness, an adverse party, or a witness identified with an adverse party.
(f) Upon motion of any party, the ALJ shall order witnesses excluded so that they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses. This rule does not authorize the exclusion of—
(1) A party who is an individual;
(2) In the case of a party that is not an individual, an officer or employee of the party appearing for the entity
pro se
or designated by the party's representative; or
(3) An individual whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of its case, including an individual employed by the Government engaged in assisting the representative for the Government.
§ 42.34
Evidence.
(a) The ALJ shall determine the admissibility of evidence.
(b) Except as provided in this part, the ALJ shall not be bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. However, the ALJ may apply the Federal Rules of Evidence where appropriate, e.g., to exclude unreliable evidence.
(c) The ALJ shall exclude irrelevant and immaterial evidence.
(d) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or by considerations of undue delay or needless presentation of cumulative evidence.
(e) Although relevant, evidence may be excluded if it is privileged under Federal law.
(f) Evidence concerning offers of compromise or settlement shall be inadmissible to the extent provided in Rule 408 of the Federal Rules of Evidence.
(g) The ALJ shall permit the parties to introduce rebuttal witnesses and evidence.
(h) All documents and other evidence offered or taken for the record shall be open to examination by all parties, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 42.24 of this part.
§ 42.35
The record.
(a) The hearing will be recorded and transcribed. Transcripts may be obtained following the hearing from the ALJ at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of duplication.
(b) The transcription of testimony, exhibits and other evidence admitted at the hearing, and all papers and requests filed in the proceeding constitute the record for the decision by the ALJ and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(c) The record may be inspected and copied (upon payment of a reasonable fee) by anyone, unless otherwise ordered by the ALJ pursuant to § 42.24 of this part.
§ 42.36
Post-hearing briefs.
The ALJ may require the parties to file post-hearing briefs. In any event, any party may file a post-hearing brief. The ALJ shall fix the time for filing the briefs, not to exceed 60 days from the date the parties receive the transcript of the hearing or, if applicable, the stipulated record. The briefs may be accompanied by proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. The ALJ
may permit the parties to file reply briefs.
§ 42.37
Initial decision.
(a) The ALJ shall issue an initial decision based only on the record, which shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties and assessments imposed.
(b) The findings of fact shall include a finding on each of the following issues:
(1) Whether the claims or statements identified in the complaint, or any portions thereof, violate § 42.3 of this part;
(2) If the person is liable for penalties or assessments, the appropriate amount of the penalties or assessments considering any mitigating or aggravating factors that the ALJ finds in the case, such as those described in § 42.31 of this part.
(c) The ALJ shall promptly serve the initial decision on all parties within 90 days after the time for submission of post-hearing briefs and reply briefs (if permitted) has expired. The ALJ shall at the same time serve all parties with a statement describing the right of any defendant determined to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment to file a motion for reconsideration with the ALJ or a notice of appeal with the Secretary. If the ALJ fails to meet the deadline contained in this paragraph, the ALJ shall notify the parties of the reason for the delay and shall set a new deadline.
(d) Unless the initial decision of the ALJ is timely appealed to the Secretary, or a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision is timely filed, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the Secretary and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued by the ALJ.
§ 42.38
Reconsideration of initial decision.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any party may file a motion for reconsideration of the initial decision within 20 days of receipt of the initial decision. If service was made by mail, receipt will be presumed to be five days from the mailing in the absence of contrary proof.
(b) Every motion must set forth the matters claimed to have been erroneously decided and the nature of the alleged errors. The motion shall be accompanied by a supporting brief.
(c) Responses to the motions shall be allowed only upon request of the ALJ.
(d) No party may file a motion for reconsideration of an initial decision that has been revised in response to a previous motion for reconsideration.
(e) The ALJ may dispose of a motion for reconsideration by denying it or by issuing a revised initial decision.
(f) If the ALJ denies a motion for reconsideration, the initial decision shall constitute the final decision of the Secretary and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion, unless the initial decision is timely appealed to the Secretary in accordance with § 42.39 of this part.
(g) If the ALJ issues a revised initial decision, that decision shall constitute the final decision of the Secretary and shall be final and binding on the parties 30 days after it is issued, unless it is timely appealed to the Secretary in accordance with § 42.39 of this part.
§ 42.39
Appeal to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
(a) Any defendant who has filed a timely answer and who is determined in an initial decision to be liable for a civil penalty or assessment may appeal the decision to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs by filing a notice of appeal with the Secretary in accordance with this section.
(b)(1) A notice of appeal may be filed at any time within 30 days after the ALJ issues an initial decision. However, if another party files a motion for reconsideration under § 42.8 of this part, consideration of the appeal shall be stayed automatically pending resolution of the motion for reconsideration.
(2) If a motion for reconsideration is timely filed, a notice of appeal may be filed within 30 days after the ALJ denies the motion or issues a revised initial decision, whichever applies.
(3) The Secretary may extend the initial 30 day period for an additional 30 days if the defendant files with the Secretary a request for an extension
within the initial 30 day period and shows good cause.
(c) If the defendant files a timely notice of appeal with the Secretary, and the time for filing motions for reconsideration under § 42.38 of this part has expired, the ALJ shall forward the record of the proceeding to the Secretary.
(d) A notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a written brief specifying exceptions to the initial decision and reasons supporting the exceptions.
(e) The representative for the Government may file a brief in opposition to exceptions within 30 days of receiving the notice of appeal and accompanying brief.
(f) There is no right to appear personally before the Secretary.
(g) There is no right to appeal any interlocutory ruling by the ALJ.
(h) In reviewing the initial decision, the Secretary shall not consider any objection that was not raised before the ALJ unless a demonstration is made of extraordinary circumstances causing the failure to raise the objection.
(i) If any party demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that additional evidence not presented at the hearing is material and that there were reasonable grounds for the failure to present the evidence at the hearing, the Secretary shall remand the matter to the ALJ for consideration of such additional evidence.
(j) The Secretary may affirm, reduce, reverse, compromise, remand, or settle any penalty or assessment, determined by the ALJ in any initial decision.
(k) The Secretary shall promptly serve each party to the appeal with a copy of the decision of the Secretary and a statement describing the right of any person to seek judicial review.
(l) Unless a petition for review is filed as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3805 after a defendant has exhausted all administrative remedies under this part and within 60 days after the date on which the Secretary serves the defendant with a copy of the Secretary's decision, a determination that a defendant is liable under § 42.3 of this part is final and is not subject to judicial review.
§ 42.40
Stays ordered by the Department of Justice.
If at any time the Attorney General or Assistant Attorney General designated by the Attorney General transmits to the Secretary a written finding that continuation of the administrative process described in this part with respect to a claim or statement may adversely affect any pending or potential criminal or civil action related to the claim or statement, the Secretary shall stay the process immediately. The Secretary may order the process resumed only upon receipt of the written authorization of the Attorney General.
§ 42.41
Stay pending appeal.
(a) An initial decision is stayed automatically pending disposition of a motion for reconsideration or of an appeal to the Secretary.
(b) No administrative stay is available following a final decision of the Secretary.
§ 42.42
Judicial review.
Section 3805 of title 31 U.S.C., authorizes judicial review by an appropriate United States District Court of a final decision of the Secretary imposing penalties or assessments under this part and specifies the procedures for the review.
§ 42.43
Collection of civil penalties and assessments.
Sections 3806 and 3808(b) of title 31 U.S.C., authorizes actions for collection of civil penalties and assessments imposed under this part and specify the procedures for the action.
§ 42.44
Right to administrative offset.
The amount of any penalty or assessment which has become final, or for which a judgment has been entered under § 42.42 or § 42.43 of this part, or any amount agreed upon in a compromise or settlement under § 42.46 of this part, may be collected by administrative offset under 31 U.S.C. 3716, except that an administrative offset may not be made under this subsection against a refund of an overpayment of Federal taxes, then or later owing by the United States to the defendant.
§ 42.45
Deposit in Treasury of United States.
All amounts collected pursuant to this part shall be deposited as miscellaneous receipts in the Treasury of the United States, except as provided in 31 U.S.C. 3806(b).
§ 42.46
Compromise and settlement.
(a) Parties may make offers of compromise or settlement at any time.
(b) The reviewing official has the exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the reviewing official is permitted to issue a complaint and before the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision.
(c) The Secretary has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part at any time after the date on which the ALJ issues an initial decision, except during the pendency of any review under § 42.42 of this part or during the pendency of any action to collect penalties and assessments under § 42.43 of this part.
(d) The Attorney General has exclusive authority to compromise or settle a case under this part during the pendency of any review under § 42.42 of this part, or of any action to recover penalties and assessments under 31 U.S.C. 3806.
(e) The investigating official may recommend settlement terms to the reviewing official, the Secretary, or the Attorney General, as appropriate. The reviewing official may recommend settlement terms to the Secretary, or the Attorney General, as appropriate.
(f) Any compromise or settlement must be in writing.
§ 42.47
Limitations.
(a) The notice of hearing with respect to a claim or statement must be served in the manner specified in § 42.8 of this part within 6 years after the date on which such claim or statement is made.
(b) If the defendant fails to file a timely answer, service of a notice under § 42.10(b) of this part shall be deemed a notice of hearing of purposes of this section.
(c) The statute of limitations may be extended by agreement of the parties.
Pt. 45

# PART 45—NEW RESTRICTIONS ON LOBBYING

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
45.100
Conditions on use of funds.
45.105
Definitions.
45.110
Certification and disclosure.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
45.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
45.205
Professional and technical services.
45.210
Reporting.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
45.300
Professional and technical services.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
45.400
Penalties.
45.405
Penalty procedures.
45.410
Enforcement.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
45.500
Secretary of Defense.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
45.600
Semi-annual compilation.
45.605
Inspector General report.
Appendix A to Part 45—Certification Regarding Lobbying
Appendix B to Part 45—Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying

# Authority:
Section 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352); 38 U.S.C. 501.

# Source:
55 FR 6737, 6752, Feb. 26, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Cross Reference:
See also Office of Management and Budget notice published at 54 FR 52306, December 20, 1989.

# Subpart A—General
§ 45.100
Conditions on use of funds.
(a) No appropriated funds may be expended by the recipient of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement to pay any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any of the following covered Federal actions: the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan,
the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a certification, set forth in appendix A, that the person has not made, and will not make, any payment prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a Federal contract, grant, loan, or a cooperative agreement shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if such person has made or has agreed to make any payment using nonappropriated funds (to include profits from any covered Federal action), which would be prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section if paid for with appropriated funds.
(d) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a statement, set forth in appendix A, whether that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
(e) Each person who requests or receives from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan shall file with that agency a disclosure form, set forth in appendix B, if that person has made or has agreed to make any payment to influence or attempt to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with that loan insurance or guarantee.
§ 45.105
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Agency,
as defined in 5 U.S.C. 552(f), includes Federal executive departments and agencies as well as independent regulatory commissions and Government corporations, as defined in 31 U.S.C. 9101(1).
(b)
Covered Federal action
means any of the following Federal actions:
(1) The awarding of any Federal contract;
(2) The making of any Federal grant;
(3) The making of any Federal loan;
(4) The entering into of any cooperative agreement; and,
(5) The extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
Covered Federal action does not include receiving from an agency a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan. Loan guarantees and loan insurance are addressed independently within this part.
(c)
Federal contract
means an acquisition contract awarded by an agency, including those subject to the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), and any other acquisition contract for real or personal property or services not subject to the FAR.
(d)
Federal cooperative agreement
means a cooperative agreement entered into by an agency.
(e)
Federal grant
means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by the Federal Government or a direct appropriation made by law to any person. The term does not include technical assistance which provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, loan insurance, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct United States cash assistance to an individual.
(f)
Federal loan
means a loan made by an agency. The term does not include loan guarantee or loan insurance.
(g)
Indian tribe
and
tribal organization
have the meaning provided in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450B). Alaskan Natives are included under the definitions of Indian tribes in that Act.
(h)
Influencing or attempting to influence
means making, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before an officer or employee or any agency, a Member of Congress,
an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with any covered Federal action.
(i)
Loan guarantee
and
loan insurance
means an agency's guarantee or insurance of a loan made by a person.
(j)
Local government
means a unit of government in a State and, if chartered, established, or otherwise recognized by a State for the performance of a governmental duty, including a local public authority, a special district, an intrastate district, a council of governments, a sponsor group representative organization, and any other instrumentality of a local government.
(k)
Officer or employee of an agency
includes the following individuals who are employed by an agency:
(1) An individual who is appointed to a position in the Government under title 5, U.S.C., including a position under a temporary appointment;
(2) A member of the uniformed services as defined in section 101(3), title 37, U.S.C.;
(3) A special Government employee as defined in section 202, title 18, U.S.C.; and,
(4) An individual who is a member of a Federal advisory committee, as defined by the Federal Advisory Committee Act, title 5, U.S.C., appendix 2.
(l)
Person
means an individual, corporation, company, association, authority, firm, partnership, society, State, and local government, regardless of whether such entity is operated for profit or not for profit. This term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(m)
Reasonable compensation
means, with respect to a regularly employed officer or employee of any person, compensation that is consistent with the normal compensation for such officer or employee for work that is not furnished to, not funded by, or not furnished in cooperation with the Federal Government.
(n)
Reasonable payment
means, with respect to professional and other technical services, a payment in an amount that is consistent with the amount normally paid for such services in the private sector.
(o)
Recipient
includes all contractors, subcontractors at any tier, and subgrantees at any tier of the recipient of funds received in connection with a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. The term excludes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or any other Indian organization with respect to expenditures specifically permitted by other Federal law.
(p)
Regularly employed
means, with respect to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, an officer or employee who is employed by such person for at least 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for receipt of such contract, grant, loan, cooperative agreement, loan insurance commitment, or loan guarantee commitment. An officer or employee who is employed by such person for less than 130 working days within one year immediately preceding the date of the submission that initiates agency consideration of such person shall be considered to be regularly employed as soon as he or she is employed by such person for 130 working days.
(q)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a territory or possession of the United States, an agency or instrumentality of a State, and a multi-State, regional, or interstate entity having governmental duties and powers.
§ 45.110
Certification and disclosure.
(a) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, with each submission that initiates agency consideration of such person for:
(1) Award of a Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) An award of a Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000.
(b) Each person shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, upon receipt by such person of:
(1) A Federal contract, grant, or cooperative agreement exceeding $100,000; or
(2) A Federal loan or a commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan exceeding $150,000,
Unless such person previously filed a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Each person shall file a disclosure form at the end of each calendar quarter in which there occurs any event that requires disclosure or that materially affects the accuracy of the information contained in any disclosure form previously filed by such person under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. An event that materially affects the accuracy of the information reported includes:
(1) A cumulative increase of $25,000 or more in the amount paid or expected to be paid for influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or
(2) A change in the person(s) or individual(s) influencing or attempting to influence a covered Federal action; or,
(3) A change in the officer(s), employee(s), or Member(s) contacted to influence or attempt to influence a covered Federal action.
(d) Any person who requests or receives from a person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section:
(1) A subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal contract;
(2) A subgrant, contract, or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal grant;
(3) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal loan exceeding $150,000; or,
(4) A contract or subcontract exceeding $100,000 at any tier under a Federal cooperative agreement,
Shall file a certification, and a disclosure form, if required, to the next tier above.
(e) All disclosure forms, but not certifications, shall be forwarded from tier to tier until received by the person referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section. That person shall forward all disclosure forms to the agency.
(f) Any certification or disclosure form filed under paragraph (e) of this section shall be treated as a material representation of fact upon which all receiving tiers shall rely. All liability arising from an erroneous representation shall be borne solely by the tier filing that representation and shall not be shared by any tier to which the erroneous representation is forwarded. Submitting an erroneous certification or disclosure constitutes a failure to file the required certification or disclosure, respectively. If a person fails to file a required certification or disclosure, the United States may pursue all available remedies, including those authorized by section 1352, title 31, U.S.C.
(g) For awards and commitments in process prior to December 23, 1989, but not made before that date, certifications shall be required at award or commitment, covering activities occurring between December 23, 1989, and the date of award or commitment. However, for awards and commitments in process prior to the December 23, 1989 effective date of these provisions, but not made before December 23, 1989, disclosure forms shall not be required at time of award or commitment but shall be filed within 30 days.
(h) No reporting is required for an activity paid for with appropriated funds if that activity is allowable under either Subpart B or C.

# Subpart B—Activities by Own Employees
§ 45.200
Agency and legislative liaison.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 45.100(a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if the payment is for agency and legislative liaison activities not directly related to a covered Federal action.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, providing any information specifically requested by an agency or Congress is allowable at any time.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agency and
legislative liaison activities are allowable at any time only where they are not related to a specific solicitation for any covered Federal action:
(1) Discussing with an agency (including individual demonstrations) the qualities and characteristics of the person's products or services, conditions or terms of sale, and service capabilities; and,
(2) Technical discussions and other activities regarding the application or adaptation of the person's products or services for an agency's use.
(d) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the following agencies and legislative liaison activities are allowable only where they are prior to formal solicitation of any covered Federal action:
(1) Providing any information not specifically requested but necessary for an agency to make an informed decision about initiation of a covered Federal action;
(2) Technical discussions regarding the preparation of an unsolicited proposal prior to its official submission; and,
(3) Capability presentations by persons seeking awards from an agency pursuant to the provisions of the Small Business Act, as amended by Pub. L. 95-507 and other subsequent amendments.
(e) Only those activities expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 45.205
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 45.100(a), does not apply in the case of a payment of reasonable compensation made to an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or an extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of a Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement if payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting of a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(c) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(d) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.
§ 45.210
Reporting.
No reporting is required with respect to payments of reasonable compensation made to regularly employed officers or employees of a person.

# Subpart C—Activities by Other Than Own Employees
§ 45.300
Professional and technical services.
(a) The prohibition on the use of appropriated funds, in § 45.100(a), does not apply in the case of any reasonable payment to a person, other than an officer or employee of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action, if the payment is for professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any bid, proposal, or application for that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement or for meeting requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving that Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(b) The reporting requirements in § 45.110(a) and (b) regarding filing a disclosure form by each person, if required, shall not apply with respect to professional or technical services rendered directly in the preparation, submission, or negotiation of any commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “professional and technical services” shall be limited to advice and analysis directly applying any professional or technical discipline. For example, drafting or a legal document accompanying a bid or proposal by a lawyer is allowable. Similarly, technical advice provided by an engineer on the performance or operational capability of a piece of equipment rendered directly in the negotiation of a contract is allowable. However, communications with the intent to influence made by a professional (such as a licensed lawyer) or a technical person (such as a licensed accountant) are not allowable under this section unless they provide advice and analysis directly applying their professional or technical expertise and unless the advice or analysis is rendered directly and solely in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action. Thus, for example, communications with the intent to influence made by a lawyer that do not provide legal advice or analysis directly and solely related to the legal aspects of his or her client's proposal, but generally advocate one proposal over another are not allowable under this section because the lawyer is not providing professional legal services. Similarly, communications with the intent to influence made by an engineer providing an engineering analysis prior to the preparation or submission of a bid or proposal are not allowable under this section since the engineer is providing technical services but not directly in the preparation, submission or negotiation of a covered Federal action.
(d) Requirements imposed by or pursuant to law as a condition for receiving a covered Federal award include those required by law or regulation, or reasonably expected to be required by law or regulation, and any other requirements in the actual award documents.
(e) Persons other than officers or employees of a person requesting or receiving a covered Federal action include consultants and trade associations.
(f) Only those services expressly authorized by this section are allowable under this section.

# Subpart D—Penalties and Enforcement
§ 45.400
Penalties.
(a) Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited herein shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such expenditure.
(b) Any person who fails to file or amend the disclosure form (see appendix B) to be filed or amended if required herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
(c) A filing or amended filing on or after the date on which an administrative action for the imposition of a civil penalty is commenced does not prevent
the imposition of such civil penalty for a failure occurring before that date. An administrative action is commenced with respect to a failure when an investigating official determines in writing to commence an investigation of an allegation of such failure.
(d) In determining whether to impose a civil penalty, and the amount of any such penalty, by reason of a violation by any person, the agency shall consider the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the violation, the effect on the ability of such person to continue in business, any prior violations by such person, the degree of culpability of such person, the ability of the person to pay the penalty, and such other matters as may be appropriate.
(e) First offenders under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $10,000, absent aggravating circumstances. Second and subsequent offenses by persons shall be subject to an appropriate civil penalty between $10,000 and $100,000, as determined by the agency head or his or her designee.
(f) An imposition of a civil penalty under this section does not prevent the United States from seeking any other remedy that may apply to the same conduct that is the basis for the imposition of such civil penalty.
§ 45.405
Penalty procedures.
Agencies shall impose and collect civil penalties pursuant to the provisions of the Program Fraud and Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 3803 (except subsection (c)), 3804, 3805, 3806, 3807, 3808, and 3812, insofar as these provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements herein.
§ 45.410
Enforcement.
The head of each agency shall take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the provisions herein are vigorously implemented and enforced in that agency.

# Subpart E—Exemptions
§ 45.500
Secretary of Defense.
(a) The Secretary of Defense may exempt, on a case-by-case basis, a covered Federal action from the prohibition whenever the Secretary determines, in writing, that such an exemption is in the national interest. The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each such written exemption to Congress immediately after making such a determination.
(b) The Department of Defense may issue supplemental regulations to implement paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart F—Agency Reports
§ 45.600
Semi-annual compilation.
(a) The head of each agency shall collect and compile the disclosure reports (see appendix B) and, on May 31 and November 30 of each year, submit to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives a report containing a compilation of the information contained in the disclosure reports received during the six-month period ending on March 31 or September 30, respectively, of that year.
(b) The report, including the compilation, shall be available for public inspection 30 days after receipt of the report by the Secretary and the Clerk.
(c) Information that involves intelligence matters shall be reported only to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(d) Information that is classified under Executive Order 12356 or any successor order shall be reported only to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives or the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (whichever such committees have jurisdiction of matters involving such information) and to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives in accordance with procedures agreed to by such committees. Such information shall not be available for public inspection.
(e) The first semi-annual compilation shall be submitted on May 31, 1990, and shall contain a compilation of the disclosure reports received from December 23, 1989 to March 31, 1990.
(f) Major agencies, designated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), are required to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives no later than with the compilations due on May 31, 1991. OMB shall provide detailed specifications in a memorandum to these agencies.
(g) Non-major agencies are requested to provide machine-readable compilations to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(h) Agencies shall keep the originals of all disclosure reports in the official files of the agency.
§ 45.605
Inspector General report.
(a) The Inspector General, or other official as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, of each agency shall prepare and submit to Congress each year, commencing with submission of the President's Budget in 1991, an evaluation of the compliance of that agency with, and the effectiveness of, the requirements herein. The evaluation may include any recommended changes that may be necessary to strengthen or improve the requirements.
(b) In the case of an agency that does not have an Inspector General, the agency official comparable to an Inspector General shall prepare and submit the annual report, or, if there is no such comparable official, the head of the agency shall prepare and submit the annual report.
(c) The annual report shall be submitted at the same time the agency submits its annual budget justifications to Congress.
(d) The annual report shall include the following: All alleged violations relating to the agency's covered Federal actions during the year covered by the report, the actions taken by the head of the agency in the year covered by the report with respect to those alleged violations and alleged violations in previous years, and the amounts of civil penalties imposed by the agency in the year covered by the report.
Pt. 45, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 45—Certification Regarding Lobbying

# Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements
The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement.
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly.
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.

# Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance
The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that:
If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a
Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, “Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,” in accordance with its instructions.
Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.
Pt. 45, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 45—Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying
EC21OC91.022
EC21OC91.023
EC21OC91.024
Pt. 46

# PART 46—POLICY REGARDING PARTICIPATION IN NATIONAL PRACTITIONER DATA BANK

# Effective Date Note:
At 90 FR 24514, June 11, 2025, part 46 was removed, effective July 11, 2025.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
46.1
Definitions.
46.2
Purpose.

# Subpart B—National Practitioner Data Bank Reporting
46.3
Malpractice payment reporting.
46.4
Clinical privileges actions reporting.

# Subpart C—National Practitioner Data Bank Inquiries
46.5
National Practitioner Data Bank inquiries.

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous
46.6
Medical quality assurance records confidentiality.
46.7
Prohibitions concerning negotiations.
46.8
Independent contractors.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 501; 42 U.S.C. 11101-11152.

# Source:
67 FR 19679, Apr. 23, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 46.1
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means The Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, as amended (42 U.S.C. 11101-11152).
(b)
Claim of medical malpractice
means a written claim or demand for payment based on an act or omission of a physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner in furnishing (or failing to furnish) health care services, and includes the filing of a complaint or administrative tort claim under the Federal Tort Claims Act, 28 U.S.C. 1346(b), 2671-2680.
(c)
Clinical privileges
means privileges granted by a health care entity to individuals to furnish health care.
(d)
Dentist
means a doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine legally authorized to practice dental surgery or dentistry by a State (or any individual who holds himself or herself out to be so authorized).
(e)
Director
means the duly appointed director of a Department of Veterans Affairs health care facility or any individual with authorization to act for that person in the director's absence.
(f)
Gross negligence
is materially worse than substandard care, and consists of an entire absence of care, or an absence of even slight care or diligence; it implies a thoughtless disregard of consequences or indifference to the rights of others.
(g)
Health care facility
means a hospital, domiciliary, outpatient clinic, or any other entity that provides health care services.
(h)
Other health care practitioner
means an individual other than a physician or dentist who is licensed or otherwise authorized by a State to provide health care services.
(i)
Physician
means a doctor of medicine or osteopathy authorized to practice medicine or surgery by a State (or any individual who holds himself or herself out to be so authorized).
(j)
Professional review action
means a recommendation by a professional review panel (with at least a majority vote) to affect adversely the clinical privileges of a physician or dentist taken as a result of a professional review activity based on the competence or professional conduct of an individual physician or dentist in cases in which such conduct affects or could affect adversely the health or welfare of a patient, or patients. An action is not considered to be based on the competence or professional conduct of a physician or dentist, if the action is primarily based on:
(1) A physician's or dentist's association with, administrative supervision of, delegation of authority to, support for, or training of, a member or members of a particular class of health care practitioner or professional, or
(2) Any other matter that does not relate to the competence or professional conduct of a physician or dentist in his/her practice at a Department of Veterans Affairs health care facility.
(k)
Professional review activity
means an activity with respect to an individual physician or dentist to establish a recommendation regarding:
(1) Whether the physician or dentist may have clinical privileges with respect to the medical staff of the facility;
(2) The scope or conditions of such privileges or appointment; or
(3) Change or modification of such privileges.
(l)
State
means the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other territories or possessions of the United States.
(m)
State Licensing Board
means, with respect to a physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner in a State, the agency of the State, which is primarily responsible for the licensing of the physician, dentist, or practitioner to furnish health care services.
(n)
Willful professional misconduct
means worse than mere substandard care, and contemplates the intentional doing of something with knowledge that it is likely to result in serious injuries or in reckless disregard of its probable consequences.
§ 46.2
Purpose.
The National Practitioner Data Bank, authorized by the Act and administered by the Department of Health and Human Services, was established for the purpose of collecting and releasing certain information concerning physicians, dentists, and other health care practitioners. The Act mandates that the Department of Health and Human Services seek to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for the purpose of having VA participate in the National Practitioner Data Bank. Such a Memorandum of Understanding has been established. Pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding, VA will obtain information from the Data Bank concerning physicians, dentists, and other health care practitioners who provide or seek to provide health care services at VA facilities and also report information regarding malpractice payments and adverse clinical privileges actions to the Data Bank. This part essentially restates or interprets provisions of that Memorandum of Understanding and constitutes the policy of VA for participation in the National Practitioner Data Bank.

# Subpart B—National Practitioner Data Bank Reporting
§ 46.3
Malpractice payment reporting.
(a) VA will file a report with the National Practitioner Data Bank, in accordance with regulations at 45 CFR part 60, subpart B, as applicable, regarding any payment for the benefit of a physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner which was made as the result of a settlement or judgment of a claim of medical malpractice. The report will identify the physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner for whose benefit the payment is made. It is intended that the report be filed within 30 days of the date payment is made. This may not be possible in all cases; e.g., sometimes notification of payment is delayed, and sometimes the malpractice payment review process cannot be completed within the timeframe. The report will provide the following information:
(1) With respect to the physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner for whose benefit the payment is made—
(i) Name;
(ii) Work address;
(iii) Home address, if known;
(iv) Social Security number, if known, and if obtained in accordance with section 7 of the Privacy Act of 1974;
(v) Date of birth;
(vi) Name of each professional school attended and year of graduation;
(vii) For each professional license: the license number, the field of licensure, and the State in which the license is held;
(viii) Drug Enforcement Administration registration number, if applicable and known;
(ix) Name of each health care entity with which affiliated, if known.
(2) With respect to the reporting VA entity—
(i) Name and address of the reporting entity;
(ii) Name, title and telephone number of the responsible official submitting the report on behalf of the Federal government; and
(iii) Relationship of the entity to the physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner being reported.
(3) With respect to the judgment or settlement resulting in the payment—
(i) Where an action or claim has been filed with an adjudicative body, identification of the adjudicative body and the case number;
(ii) Date or dates on which the act(s) or omission(s), which gave rise to the action or claim occurred;
(iii) Date of judgment or settlement;
(iv) Amount paid, date of payment, and whether payment is for a judgment or a settlement;
(v) Description and amount of judgment or settlement and any conditions attached thereto, including terms of payment;
(vi) A description of the acts or omissions and injuries or illnesses upon which the action or claim was based; and
(vii) Classification of the acts or omissions in accordance with a reporting code adopted by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
(b) Payment will be considered to have been made for the benefit of a physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner only if (at least a majority of) a malpractice payment review panel concludes that payment was related to substandard care, professional incompetence, or professional misconduct on the part of the physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner. For purposes of this part, a panel shall have a minimum of three individuals appointed by the Director, Medical-Legal Affairs (including at least one member of the profession/occupation of the practitioner(s) whose actions are under review). The conclusions of the panel shall, at a minimum, be based on review of documents pertinent to the care that led to the claim. These documents include the medical records of the patient whose care led to the claim, any report of an administrative investigation board appointed to investigate the care, and the opinion of any consultant which the panel may request in its discretion. These documents do not include those generated primarily for consideration or litigation of the claim of malpractice. In addition, to the extent practicable, the documents shall include written statements of the individual(s) involved in the care which led to the claim. The practitioner(s) whose actions are under review will receive a written notice, hand-delivered or sent to the practitioner's last known address (return receipt requested), from the VA facility director at the time the VA facility director receives the Notice of Payment. That notice from the VA facility director will indicate that VA is considering whether to report the practitioner to the National Practitioner Data Bank because of a specified malpractice payment made, and provide the practitioner the opportunity, within 60 days of receipt, to submit a written statement concerning the care that led to the claim. Inability to notify or non-response from the identified practitioner(s) will not preclude completion of the review and reporting process. The panel, at its discretion, may request additional information from the practitioner or the VA facility where the incident occurred. The review panel's notification to the VA facility Director shall include the acts or omissions considered, the reporting conclusion, and the rationale for the conclusion.
(c) Attending staff (including contract employees, such as scarce medical specialists providing care pursuant to a contract under 38 U.S.C. 7409) are responsible for actions of licensed trainees assigned under their supervision. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, actions of a licensed trainee (intern or resident) acting within the scope of his or her training program that otherwise would warrant reporting for substandard care, professional incompetence, or professional misconduct under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, will be reported only if the panel, by at least a majority, concludes that such actions constitute gross negligence or willful professional misconduct. For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, payment will be considered to be made for the benefit of a
physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner, in their supervisory capacity, if the panel concludes, by at least a majority, that the physician, dentist or other health care practitioner was acting in a supervisory capacity; that the payment was related to substandard care, professional incompetence, or professional misconduct of the trainee and not the supervisor; and that the trainee did not commit gross negligence or willful professional misconduct. Such report will note that the physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner is being reported in a supervisory capacity.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ):
Licensed trainees acting outside the scope of their training program (e.g. acting as admitting officer of the day) will be reported under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The Director of the facility at which the claim arose has the primary responsibility for submitting the report to the National Practitioner Data Bank and for providing a copy to the practitioner, to the State Licensing Board in each State where the practitioner holds a license, and to the State Licensing Board in which the facility is located. However, the Chief Patient Care Services Officer is also authorized to submit the report to the National Practitioner Data Bank and provide copies to the practitioner and State Licensing Boards in cases where the Chief Patient Care Services Officer deems it appropriate to do so. The Director of the facility also shall provide to the practitioner a copy of the review panel's notification to the Director.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0621)
§ 46.4
Clinical privileges actions reporting.
(a) VA will file an adverse action report with the National Practitioner Data Bank in accordance with regulations at 45 CFR part 60, subpart B, as applicable, regarding any of the following actions:
(1) An action of a Director after consideration of a professional review action that, for a period longer than 30 days, adversely affects (by reducing, restricting, suspending, revoking, or failing to renew) the clinical privileges of a physician or dentist relating to possible incompetence or improper professional conduct.
(2) Acceptance of the surrender of clinical privileges, including the surrender of clinical privileges inherent in resignation or retirement, or any restriction of such privileges by a physician or dentist either while under investigation by the health care entity relating to possible incompetence or improper professional conduct, or in return for not conducting such an investigation or proceeding whether or not the individual remains in VA service.
(b) The report specified in paragraph (a) of this section will provide the following information—
(1) With respect to the physician or dentist:
(i) Name;
(ii) Work address;
(iii) Home address, if known;
(iv) Social Security number, if known (and if obtained in accordance with section 7 of the Privacy Act of 1974);
(v) Date of birth;
(vi) Name of each professional school attended and year of graduation;
(vii) For each professional license: the license number, the field of licensure, and the name of the State in which the license is held;
(viii) Drug Enforcement Administration registration number, if applicable and known;
(ix) A description of the acts or omissions or other reasons for privilege loss, or, if known, for surrender; and
(x) Action taken, date action was made final, length of action and effective date of the action.
(2) With respect to the VA facility—
(i) Name and address of the reporting facility; and
(ii) Name, title, and telephone number of the responsible official submitting the report.
(c) A copy of the report referred to in paragraph (a) of this section will also be filed with the State Licensing Board in the State(s) in which the practitioner is licensed and in which the facility is located. It is intended that the report be filed within 15 days of the date the action is made final, that is,
subsequent to any internal (to the facility) appeal.
(d) As soon as practicable after it is determined that a report shall be filed with the National Practitioner Data Bank and State Licensing Boards under paragraphs (a)(2) and (c) of this section, VA shall provide written notice to the practitioner that a report will be filed with the National Practitioner Data Bank with a copy to the State Licensing Board in each State in which the practitioner is licensed and in the State in which the facility is located.

# Subpart C—National Practitioner Data Bank Inquiries
§ 46.5
National Practitioner Data Bank inquiries.
VA will request information from the National Practitioner Data Bank, in accordance with the regulations published at 45 CFR part 60, subpart C, as applicable, concerning a physician, dentist, or other licensed health care practitioner as follows:
(a) At the time a physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner applies for a position at VA Central Office, any of its regional offices, or on the medical staff, or for clinical privileges at a VA hospital or other health care entity operated under the auspice of VA;
(b) No less often than every 2 years concerning any physician, dentist, or other health care practitioner who is on the medical staff or who has clinical privileges at a VA hospital or other health care entity operated under the auspice of VA; and
(c) At other times pursuant to VA policy and needs and consistent with the Act and Department of Health and Human Services Regulations (45 CFR part 60).

# Subpart D—Miscellaneous
§ 46.6
Medical quality assurance records confidentiality.
Note that medical quality assurance records that are confidential and privileged under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 5705 may not be used as evidence for reporting individuals to the National Practitioner Data Bank.
§ 46.7
Prohibitions concerning negotiations.
Reporting under this part (including the submission of copies) may not be the subject of negotiation in any settlement agreement, employee action, legal proceedings, or any other negotiated settlement.
§ 46.8
Independent contractors.
Independent contractors acting on behalf of the Department of Veterans Affairs are subject to the National Practitioner Data Bank reporting provisions of this part. In the following circumstances, VA will provide the contractor with notice that a report of a clinical privileges action will be filed with the National Practitioner Data Bank with a copy with the State Licensing Board in the State(s) in which the contractor is licensed and in which the facility is located: where VA terminates a contract for possible incompetence or improper professional conduct, thereby automatically revoking the contractor's clinical privileges, or where the contractor terminates the contract, thereby surrendering clinical privileges, either while under investigation relating to possible incompetence or improper professional conduct or in return for not conducting such an investigation or proceeding.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 5705)
Pt. 47

# PART 47—POLICY REGARDING REPORTING HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS TO STATE LICENSING BOARDS
Sec.
47.1
Definitions.
47.2
Reporting to State Licensing Boards.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 99-166, 99 Stat. 941; 38 U.S.C. 501.

# Source:
58 FR 48455, Sept. 16, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 47.1
Definitions.
(a)
Dentist
means a doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine legally authorized to practice dental surgery or medical dentistry by a State (or any individual who, without authority, holds himself or herself out to be so authorized).
(b)
Other health care professional
means an individual other than a physician or dentist who is licensed or otherwise authorized by a State to provide health care services (or any individual who, without authority, holds himself or herself out to be so licensed or authorized).
(c)
Physician
means a doctor of medicine or osteopathy legally authorized to practice medicine or surgery by a State (or any individual who, without authority, holds himself or herself out to be so authorized).
(d)
State
means the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands and any other territories or possessions of the United States.
(e)
State Licensing Board
means, with respect to a physician, dentist or other health care practitioner in a State, the agency of the State which is primarily responsible for the licensing of the physician, dentist or practitioner to provide health care services.
(f)
Generally accepted standards of clinical practice
means reasonable competence in the clinical aspects of one's responsibilities, as well as the moral and ethical behavior necessary to carry out those responsibilities.
(g)
Separated licensed health care professional
means a licensed health care professional who is no longer on VA rolls, regardless of whether the individual left voluntarily or involuntarily and regardless of the reason why the individual left.
(h)
Currently employed licensed health care professional
means a licensed health care professional who is on VA rolls.
(i)
On VA rolls
means on VA rolls, regardless of the status of the professional, such as full-time, part-time, contract service, fee-basis, or without compensation.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 7401-7405; Section 204(b) of Pub. L. 99-166, 99 Stat. 952-953; Pub. L. 99-660, 100 Stat. 3743)
[58 FR 48455, Sept. 16, 1993, as amended at 63 FR 23665, Apr. 30, 1998]
§ 47.2
Reporting to State Licensing Boards.
It is the policy of VA to report to State Licensing Boards any currently employed licensed health care professional or separated licensed health care professional whose clinical practice during VA employment so significantly failed to meet generally accepted standards of clinical practice as to raise reasonable concern for the safety of patients. The following are examples of actions that meet the criteria for reporting:
(a) Significant deficiencies in clinical practice such as lack of diagnostic or treatment capability; errors in transcribing, administering or documenting medication; inability to perform clinical procedures considered basic to the performance of one's occupation; performing procedures not included in one's clinical privileges in other than emergency situations;
(b) Patient neglect or abandonment;
(c) Mental health impairment sufficient to cause the individual to behave inappropriately in the patient care environment;
(d) Physical health impairment sufficient to cause the individual to provide unsafe patient care;
(e) Substance abuse when it affects the individual's ability to perform appropriately as a health care provider or in the patient care environment;
(f) Falsification of credentials;
(g) Falsification of medical records or prescriptions;
(h) Theft of drugs;
(i) Inappropriate dispensing of drugs;
(j) Unethical behavior or moral turpitude;
(k) Mental, physical, sexual, or verbal abuse of a patient (examples of patient abuse include intentional omission of care, willful violation of a patient's privacy, willful physical injury, intimidation, harassment, or ridicule); and
(l) Violation of research ethics.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501; 7401-7405; Section 204(b) of Pub. L. 99-166, 99 Stat. 952-953; Pub. L. 99-660, 100 Stat. 3743)
[63 FR 23665, Apr. 30, 1998]
Pt. 48

# PART 48—GOVERNMENTWIDE REQUIREMENTS FOR DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE)

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
Sec.
48.100
What does this part do?
48.105
Does this part apply to me?
48.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
48.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
48.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
48.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
48.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
48.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
48.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
48.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
48.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
48.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
48.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs Awarding Officials
48.400
What are my responsibilities as a Department of Veterans Affairs awarding official?

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
48.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
48.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
48.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
48.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?

# Subpart F—Definitions
48.605
Award.
48.610
Controlled substance.
48.615
Conviction.
48.620
Cooperative agreement.
48.625
Criminal drug statute.
48.630
Debarment.
48.635
Drug-free workplace.
48.640
Employee.
48.645
Federal agency or agency.
48.650
Grant.
48.655
Individual.
48.660
Recipient.
48.665
State.
48.670
Suspension.

# Authority:
41 U.S.C. 701,
et seq.;
38 U.S.C 501

# Source:
68 FR 66557, 66619, 66620, Nov. 26, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Purpose and Coverage
§ 48.100
What does this part do?
This part carries out the portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701
et seq.,
as amended) that applies to grants. It also applies the provisions of the Act to cooperative agreements and other financial assistance awards, as a matter of Federal Government policy.
§ 48.105
Does this part apply to me?
(a) Portions of this part apply to you if you are either—
(1) A recipient of an assistance award from the Department of Veterans Affairs; or
(2) A(n) Department of Veterans Affairs awarding official. (See definitions of award and recipient in §§ 48.605 and 48.660, respectively.)
(b) The following table shows the subparts that apply to you:
If you are . . .
see subparts . . .
(1) A recipient who is not an individual
A, B and E.
(2) A recipient who is an individual
A, C and E.
(3) A(n) Department of Veterans Affairs awarding official
A, D and E.
§ 48.110
Are any of my Federal assistance awards exempt from this part?
This part does not apply to any award that the Secretary determines that the application of this part would be inconsistent with the international obligations of the United States or the
laws or regulations of a foreign government.
§ 48.115
Does this part affect the Federal contracts that I receive?
It will affect future contract awards indirectly if you are debarred or suspended for a violation of the requirements of this part, as described in § 48.510(c). However, this part does not apply directly to procurement contracts. The portion of the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 that applies to Federal procurement contracts is carried out through the Federal Acquisition Regulation in chapter 1 of Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations (the drug-free workplace coverage currently is in 48 CFR part 23, subpart 23.5).

# Subpart B—Requirements for Recipients Other Than Individuals
§ 48.200
What must I do to comply with this part?
There are two general requirements if you are a recipient other than an individual.
(a) First, you must make a good faith effort, on a continuing basis, to maintain a drug-free workplace. You must agree to do so as a condition for receiving any award covered by this part. The specific measures that you must take in this regard are described in more detail in subsequent sections of this subpart. Briefly, those measures are to—
(1) Publish a drug-free workplace statement and establish a drug-free awareness program for your employees (see §§ 48.205 through 48.220); and
(2) Take actions concerning employees who are convicted of violating drug statutes in the workplace (see § 48.225).
(b) Second, you must identify all known workplaces under your Federal awards (see § 48.230).
§ 48.205
What must I include in my drug-free workplace statement?
You must publish a statement that—
(a) Tells your employees that the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance is prohibited in your workplace;
(b) Specifies the actions that you will take against employees for violating that prohibition; and
(c) Lets each employee know that, as a condition of employment under any award, he or she:
(1) Will abide by the terms of the statement; and
(2) Must notify you in writing if he or she is convicted for a violation of a criminal drug statute occurring in the workplace and must do so no more than five calendar days after the conviction.
§ 48.210
To whom must I distribute my drug-free workplace statement?
You must require that a copy of the statement described in § 48.205 be given to each employee who will be engaged in the performance of any Federal award.
§ 48.215
What must I include in my drug-free awareness program?
You must establish an ongoing drug-free awareness program to inform employees about—
(a) The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
(b) Your policy of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
(c) Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee assistance programs; and
(d) The penalties that you may impose upon them for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace.
§ 48.220
By when must I publish my drug-free workplace statement and establish my drug-free awareness program?
If you are a new recipient that does not already have a policy statement as described in § 48.205 and an ongoing awareness program as described in § 48.215, you must publish the statement and establish the program by the time given in the following table:
If . . .
then you . . .
(a) The performance period of the award is less than 30 days
must have the policy statement and program in place as soon as possible, but before the date on which performance is expected to be completed.
(b) The performance period of the award is 30 days or more
must have the policy statement and program in place within 30 days after award.
(c) You believe there are extraordinary circumstances that will require more than 30 days for you to publish the policy statement and establish the awareness program
may ask the Department of Veterans Affairs awarding official to give you more time to do so. The amount of additional time, if any, to be given is at the discretion of the awarding official.
§ 48.225
What actions must I take concerning employees who are convicted of drug violations in the workplace?
There are two actions you must take if an employee is convicted of a drug violation in the workplace:
(a) First, you must notify Federal agencies if an employee who is engaged in the performance of an award informs you about a conviction, as required by § 48.205(c)(2), or you otherwise learn of the conviction. Your notification to the Federal agencies must—
(1) Be in writing;
(2) Include the employee's position title;
(3) Include the identification number(s) of each affected award;
(4) Be sent within ten calendar days after you learn of the conviction; and
(5) Be sent to every Federal agency on whose award the convicted employee was working. It must be sent to every awarding official or his or her official designee, unless the Federal agency has specified a central point for the receipt of the notices.
(b) Second, within 30 calendar days of learning about an employee's conviction, you must either—
(1) Take appropriate personnel action against the employee, up to and including termination, consistent with the requirements of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), as amended; or
(2) Require the employee to participate satisfactorily in a drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for these purposes by a Federal, State or local health, law enforcement, or other appropriate agency.
§ 48.230
How and when must I identify workplaces?
(a) You must identify all known workplaces under each Department of Veterans Affairs award. A failure to do so is a violation of your drug-free workplace requirements. You may identify the workplaces—
(1) To the Department of Veterans Affairs official that is making the award, either at the time of application or upon award; or
(2) In documents that you keep on file in your offices during the performance of the award, in which case you must make the information available for inspection upon request by Department of Veterans Affairs officials or their designated representatives.
(b) Your workplace identification for an award must include the actual address of buildings (or parts of buildings) or other sites where work under the award takes place. Categorical descriptions may be used (e.g., all vehicles of a mass transit authority or State highway department while in operation, State employees in each local unemployment office, performers in concert halls or radio studios).
(c) If you identified workplaces to the Department of Veterans Affairs awarding official at the time of application or award, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any workplace that you identified changes during the performance of the award, you must inform the Department of Veterans Affairs awarding official.

# Subpart C—Requirements for Recipients Who Are Individuals
§ 48.300
What must I do to comply with this part if I am an individual recipient?
As a condition of receiving a(n) Department of Veterans Affairs award, if you are an individual recipient, you must agree that—
(a) You will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity related to the award; and
(b) If you are convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity, you will report the conviction:
(1) In writing.
(2) Within 10 calendar days of the conviction.
(3) To the Department of Veterans Affairs awarding official or other designee for each award that you currently have, unless § 48.301 or the award
document designates a central point for the receipt of the notices. When notice is made to a central point, it must include the identification number(s) of each affected award.
§ 48.301
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Responsibilities of Department of Veterans Affairs Awarding Officials
§ 48.400
What are my responsibilities as a(n) Department of Veterans Affairs awarding official?
As a(n) Department of Veterans Affairs awarding official, you must obtain each recipient's agreement, as a condition of the award, to comply with the requirements in—
(a) Subpart B of this part, if the recipient is not an individual; or
(b) Subpart C of this part, if the recipient is an individual.

# Subpart E—Violations of This Part and Consequences
§ 48.500
How are violations of this part determined for recipients other than individuals?
A recipient other than an individual is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Secretary determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart B of this part; or
(b) The number of convictions of the recipient's employees for violating criminal drug statutes in the workplace is large enough to indicate that the recipient has failed to make a good faith effort to provide a drug-free workplace.
§ 48.505
How are violations of this part determined for recipients who are individuals?
An individual recipient is in violation of the requirements of this part if the Secretary determines, in writing, that—
(a) The recipient has violated the requirements of subpart C of this part; or
(b) The recipient is convicted of a criminal drug offense resulting from a violation occurring during the conduct of any award activity.
§ 48.510
What actions will the Federal Government take against a recipient determined to have violated this part?
If a recipient is determined to have violated this part, as described in § 48.500 or § 48.505, the Department of Veterans Affairs may take one or more of the following actions—
(a) Suspension of payments under the award;
(b) Suspension or termination of the award; and
(c) Suspension or debarment of the recipient under 2 CFR parts 180 and 801, for a period not to exceed five years.
[68 FR 66557, 66619, 66620, Nov. 26, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 30243, May 31, 2007]
§ 48.515
Are there any exceptions to those actions?
The Secretary may waive with respect to a particular award, in writing, a suspension of payments under an award, suspension or termination of an award, or suspension or debarment of a recipient if the Secretary determines that such a waiver would be in the public interest. This exception authority cannot be delegated to any other official.

# Subpart F—Definitions
§ 48.605
Award.
Award
means an award of financial assistance by the Department of Veterans Affairs or other Federal agency directly to a recipient.
(a) The term award includes:
(1) A Federal grant or cooperative agreement, in the form of money or property in lieu of money.
(2) A block grant or a grant in an entitlement program, whether or not the grant is exempted from coverage under 2 CFR part 200.
(b) The term award does not include:
(1) Technical assistance that provides services instead of money.
(2) Loans.
(3) Loan guarantees.
(4) Interest subsidies.
(5) Insurance.
(6) Direct appropriations.
(7) Veterans' benefits to individuals (
i.e.,
any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States).
[68 FR 66557, 66619, 66620, Nov. 26, 2003, as amended at 80 FR 43322, July 22, 2015]
§ 48.610
Controlled substance.
Controlled substance
means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15.
§ 48.615
Conviction.
Conviction
means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes.
§ 48.620
Cooperative agreement.
Cooperative agreement
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant (see definition of grant in § 48.650), except that substantial involvement is expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award. The term does not include cooperative research and development agreements as defined in 15 U.S.C. 3710a.
§ 48.625
Criminal drug statute.
Criminal drug statute
means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance.
§ 48.630
Debarment.
Debarment
means an action taken by a Federal agency to prohibit a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions. A recipient so prohibited is debarred, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689.
§ 48.635
Drug-free workplace.
Drug-free workplace
means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific award at which employees of the recipient are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance.
§ 48.640
Employee.
(a)
Employee
means the employee of a recipient directly engaged in the performance of work under the award, including—
(1) All direct charge employees;
(2) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement in the performance of work under the award is insignificant to the performance of the award; and
(3) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the award and who are on the recipient's payroll.
(b) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the recipient (e.g., volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces).
§ 48.645
Federal agency or agency.
Federal agency or agency
means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency.
§ 48.650
Grant.
Grant
means an award of financial assistance that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 6304, is used to enter into a relationship—
(a) The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the United States, rather than
to acquire property or services for the Federal Government's direct benefit or use; and
(b) In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal agency and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the award.
§ 48.655
Individual.
Individual
means a natural person.
§ 48.660
Recipient.
Recipient
means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, unit of government (except a Federal agency) or legal entity, however organized, that receives an award directly from a Federal agency.
§ 48.665
State.
State
means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 48.670
Suspension.
Suspension
means an action taken by a Federal agency that immediately prohibits a recipient from participating in Federal Government procurement contracts and covered nonprocurement transactions for a temporary period, pending completion of an investigation and any judicial or administrative proceedings that may ensue. A recipient so prohibited is suspended, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation for procurement contracts (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4) and the common rule, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement), that implements Executive Order 12549 and Executive Order 12689. Suspension of a recipient is a distinct and separate action from suspension of an award or suspension of payments under an award.
Pt. 50

# PART 50—EQUAL TREATMENT FOR FAITH BASED ORGANIZATIONS
Sec.
50.1
Definitions.
50.2
Faith-based organizations and Federal financial assistance.
50.3
Notice requirements.
Appendix A to Part 50—Notice or Announcement of Award Opportunities
Appendix B to Part 50—Notice of Award or Contract
Appendix C to Part 50—Written Notice of Beneficiary Protections

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 501 and as noted in specific sections.

# Source:
85 FR 82142, Dec. 17, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 50.1
Definitions.
(a)
Direct Federal financial assistance, Federal financial assistance provided directly,
direct funding,
or
directly funded
means financial assistance received by an entity selected by the Government or pass-through entity (under this part) to carry out a service (e.g., by contract, grant, or cooperative agreement). References to “Federal financial assistance” will be deemed to be references to direct Federal financial assistance, unless the referenced assistance meets the definition of “indirect Federal financial assistance” or “Federal financial assistance provided indirectly.”
(b)
Indirect Federal financial assistance
or
Federal financial assistance provided indirectly
means financial assistance received by a service provider when the service provider is paid for services by means of a voucher, certificate, or other means of government-funded payment provided to a beneficiary who is able to make a choice of a service provider. Federal financial assistance provided to an organization is considered “indirect” within the meaning of the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution when—
(1) The government program through which the beneficiary receives the voucher, certificate, or other similar means of government funded payment is neutral toward religion; and
(2) The organization receives the assistance wholly as a result of a genuine and independent private choice of the beneficiary, not a choice of the Government. The availability of adequate secular alternatives is a significant factor in determining whether a program affords a genuine and independent private choice.
(c)
Federal financial assistance
means assistance that non-Federal entities receive or administer in the form of grants, contracts, loans, loan guarantees, property, cooperative agreements, food commodities, direct appropriations, or other assistance, but does not include a tax credit, deduction, or exemption.
(d)
Pass-through entity
means an entity, including a nonprofit or nongovernmental organization, acting under a contract, grant, or other agreement with the Federal Government or with a State or local government, such as a State administering agency, that accepts direct Federal financial assistance as a primary recipient or grantee and distributes that assistance to other organizations that, in turn, provide government-funded social services.
(e)
Programs
or
services
has the same definition as “social service program” in Executive Order 13279.
(f)
Recipient
means a non-Federal entity that receives a Federal award directly from a Federal awarding agency to carry out an activity under a Federal program. The term recipient does not include subrecipients, but does include pass-through entities.
(g)
Religious exercise
has the meaning given to the term in 42 U.S.C. 2000cc-5(7)(A).
[85 FR 82142, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 15718, Mar. 4, 2024]
§ 50.2
Faith-based organizations and Federal financial assistance.
(a) Faith-based organizations are eligible, on the same basis as any other organization, to participate in any VA program or service for which they are otherwise eligible. Neither the VA program nor any State or local government or other pass-through entity receiving funds under any VA program shall, in the selection of service providers, discriminate for or against an organization on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to favor or disfavor a similarly situated secular organization.
(b) Organizations that receive direct Federal financial assistance from a VA program may not engage in any explicitly religious activities (including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization) as part of the programs or services funded with direct Federal financial assistance from the VA program, or in any other manner prohibited by law. If an organization conducts such activities, the activities must be offered separately, in time or location, from the programs or services funded with direct Federal financial assistance from the VA program, and participation must be voluntary for beneficiaries of the programs or services funded with such assistance. The use of indirect Federal financial assistance is not subject to this restriction. Nothing in this part restricts VA's authority under applicable Federal law to fund activities, such as the provision of chaplaincy services, that can be directly funded by the Government consistent with the Establishment Clause.
(c) A faith-based organization that participates in programs or services funded by a VA program will retain its autonomy; right of expression; religious character; and independence from Federal, State, and local governments, and may continue to carry out its mission, including the definition, development, practice, and expression of its religious beliefs. A faith-based organization that receives direct Federal financial assistance may use space in its facilities to provide programs or services funded with financial assistance from the VA program without concealing, removing, or altering religious art, icons, scriptures, or other religious symbols. In addition, a faith-based organization that receives Federal financial assistance from a VA program does not lose the protections of law. Such a faith-based organization retains its authority over its internal governance, and it may retain religious terms in its name, select its board members on the basis of their acceptance of or adherence to the religious tenets of the organization, and include religious references in its mission statements and other governing documents.
(d) Any organization that participates in programs funded by Federal financial assistance from the VA shall not, in providing services supported in
whole or in part with Federal financial assistance, or in their outreach activities related to such services, discriminate against a program beneficiary or prospective program beneficiary on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice. However, an organization receiving indirect Federal financial assistance need not modify its program activities to accommodate a beneficiary who chooses to expend the indirect aid on the organization's program.
(e) No grant document, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation that is used by a VA program or a State or local government in administering Federal financial assistance from any VA program shall require faith-based organizations to provide assurances or notices where they are not required of non-faith-based organizations. Any restrictions on the use of grant funds shall apply equally to faith-based and non-faith-based organizations. All organizations that participate in VA programs or services, including faith-based ones, must carry out eligible activities in accordance with all program requirements, including those prohibiting the use of direct financial assistance to engage in explicitly religious activities, subject to any accommodations that are granted on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States. No grant document, agreement, covenant, memorandum of understanding, policy, or regulation that is used by VA or a State or local government in administering financial assistance from VA shall disqualify faith-based organizations from participating in the VA programs or services on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to disqualify a similarly situated secular organization.
(f) Nothing in this part shall be construed to preclude VA from making an accommodation, including for religious exercise, with respect to one or more program requirements on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the United States.
(g) VA shall not disqualify an organization from participating in any VA program for which it is eligible on the basis of the organization's indication that it may request an accommodation with respect to one or more program requirements, unless the organization has made clear that the accommodation is necessary to its participation and VA has determined that it would deny the accommodation.
(h) A faith-based organization's exemption from the Federal prohibition on employment discrimination on the basis of religion, set forth in section 702(a) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e-1), is not forfeited when the organization receives direct or indirect Federal financial assistance from a VA program. Some VA programs, however, contain independent statutory provisions affecting a recipient's ability to discriminate on the basis of religion in employment. In this case, recipients should consult with the appropriate VA program office if they have questions about the scope of any applicable requirements.
(i) In general, VA programs do not require that a recipient, including a faith-based organization, obtain tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code to be eligible for funding under VA programs. Some grant programs, however, do require an organization to be a nonprofit organization in order to be eligible for funding. Funding announcements and other grant application solicitations that require organizations to have nonprofit status will specifically so indicate in the eligibility section of the solicitation. In addition, any solicitation that requires an organization to maintain tax-exempt status will expressly state the statutory authority for requiring such status. Recipients should consult with the appropriate VA program office to determine the scope of any applicable requirements. In VA programs in which an applicant must show that it is a nonprofit organization, the applicant may do so by any of the following means:
(1) Proof that the Internal Revenue Service currently recognizes the applicant as an organization to which contributions are tax deductible under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code;
(2) A statement from a State or other governmental taxing body or the State secretary of State certifying that:
(i) The organization is a nonprofit organization operating within the State; and
(ii) No part of its net earnings may benefit any private shareholder or individual;
(3) A certified copy of the applicant's certificate of incorporation or similar document that clearly establishes the nonprofit status of the applicant; or
(4) Any item described in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section if that item applies to a State or national parent organization, together with a statement by the State or parent organization that the applicant is a local nonprofit affiliate.
(j) If a recipient contributes its own funds in excess of those funds required by a matching or grant agreement to supplement VA program-supported activities, the recipient has the option to segregate those additional funds or commingle them with the Federal award funds. If the funds are commingled, the provision of this part shall apply to all of the commingled funds in the same manner, and to the same extent, as the provisions apply to the Federal funds. With respect to the matching funds, the provisions of this part apply irrespective of whether such funds are commingled with Federal funds or segregated.
(k) Decisions about awards of Federal financial assistance must be made on the basis of merit, not on the basis of the religious affiliation, or lack thereof, of a recipient organization, and must be free from political interference or even the appearance of such interference.
(l) Neither VA nor any State or local government or other pass-through entity receiving funds under any VA program or service shall construe these provisions in such a way as to advantage or disadvantage faith-based organizations affiliated with historic or well-established religions or sects in comparison with other religions or sects.
(m) If a pass-through entity, acting under a contract, grant, or other agreement with the Federal Government or with a State or local government that is administering a program supported by Federal financial assistance, is given the authority under the contract, grant, or agreement to select non-governmental organizations to provide services funded by the Federal Government, the pass-through entity must ensure compliance by the subrecipient with the provisions of this part and any implementing regulations or guidance. If the pass-through entity is a non-governmental organization, it retains all other rights of a non-governmental organization under the program's statutory and regulatory provisions.
[89 FR 15718, Mar. 4, 2024]
§ 50.3
Notice requirements.
(a) An organization providing social services under a program of VA supported by Federal financial assistance must give written notice to beneficiaries and prospective beneficiaries of certain protections in a manner and form prescribed by the VA program. The language for this written notice to beneficiaries must be substantially similar to the text set forth in appendix C to this part. Specifically, the notice must include the following:
(1) The organization may not discriminate against a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice;
(2) The organization may not require a beneficiary or prospective beneficiary to attend or participate in any explicitly religious activities that are offered by the organization, and any participation by a beneficiary in such activities must be purely voluntary;
(3) The organization must separate in time or location any privately funded explicitly religious activities from activities supported by direct Federal financial assistance; and
(4) A beneficiary or prospective beneficiary may report an organization's violation of these protections, including any denials of services or benefits
by an organization, by contacting or filing a written complaint with the VA program or the intermediary that awarded funds to the organization.
(b) The written notice described in paragraph (a) of this section must be given to a prospective beneficiary prior to the time the prospective beneficiary enrolls in the program or receives services from the program. When the nature of the service provided or exigent circumstances make it impracticable to provide such written notice in advance of the actual service, an organization must advise beneficiaries of their protections at the earliest available opportunity.
(c) VA may determine that the notice described in paragraph (a) of this section must inform each beneficiary or prospective beneficiary of the option to seek information from VA, or another entity administering the program, as to whether there are any other federally funded organizations in their area that provide the services available under the applicable program.
(d) Notices or announcements of award opportunities and notices of award or contracts shall include language substantially similar to that in appendices A and B, respectively, to this part.
[89 FR 15719, Mar. 4, 2024]
Pt. 50, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 50—Notice or Announcement of Award Opportunities
(a) Faith-based organizations may apply for this award on the same basis as any other organization, as set forth at, and subject to the protections and requirements of, this part and any applicable constitutional and statutory requirements, including 42 U.S.C. 2000bb
et seq.
VA will not, in the selection of recipients, discriminate for or against an organization on the basis of the organization's religious character, motives, or affiliation, or lack thereof, or on the basis of conduct that would not be considered grounds to favor or disfavor a similarly situated secular organization.
(b) A faith-based organization that participates in this program will retain its independence from the Government and may continue to carry out its mission consistent with religious freedom and conscience protections in Federal law.
(c) A faith-based organization may not use direct financial assistance from VA to support or engage in any explicitly religious activities except where consistent with the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment and any other applicable requirements. An organization receiving Federal financial assistance also may not, in providing services funded by VA, or in their outreach activities related to such services, discriminate against a program beneficiary or prospective program beneficiary on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice.
[89 FR 15720, Mar. 4, 2024]
Pt. 50, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 50—Notice of Award or Contract
(a) A faith-based organization that participates in this program retains its independence from the Government and may continue to carry out its mission consistent with religious freedom and conscience protections in Federal law.
(b) A faith-based organization may not use direct Federal financial assistance from VA to support or engage in any explicitly religious activities except when consistent with the Establishment Clause and any other applicable requirements. An organization receiving Federal financial assistance also may not, in providing services funded by VA, or in their outreach activities related to such services, discriminate against a program beneficiary or prospective program beneficiary on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice.
[89 FR 15720, Mar. 4, 2024]
Pt. 50, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 50—Written Notice of Beneficiary Protections
Name of Organization:
Name of Program:
Contact Information for VA Grant Program Office (name, phone number, and email address, if appropriate):
Because this program is supported in whole or in part by financial assistance from the Federal Government, we are required to let you know that:
(1) We may not discriminate against you on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice;
(2) We may not require you to attend or participate in any explicitly religious activities (including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization) that may be offered by our organization, and any participation by you in such activities must be purely voluntary;
(3) We must separate in time or location any privately funded explicitly religious activities (including activities that involve overt religious content such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization) from activities supported with direct Federal financial assistance;
(4) You may report violations of these protections, including any denials of services or benefits by an organization, by contacting or filing a written complaint with the grant program office using the contact information set forth above; and
[When required by VA, the notice must also state:] (5) If you would like to seek information about whether there are any other federally funded organizations that provide these kinds of services in your area, please use the contact information set forth above.
This written notice must be given to you before you enroll in the program or receive services from the program, unless the nature of the service provided or exigent circumstances make it impracticable to provide such notice before we provide the actual service. In such an instance, this notice must be given to you at the earliest available opportunity.
[89 FR 15720, Mar. 4, 2024]
Pt. 51

# PART 51—PER DIEM FOR NURSING HOME, DOMICILIARY, OR ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE OF VETERANS IN STATE HOMES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
51.1
Purpose and scope of this part.
51.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Obtaining Recognition and Certification for per Diem Payments
51.20
Recognition of a State home.
51.30
Certification of a State home.
51.31
Surveys for recognition and/or certification.
51.32
Terminating recognition.

# Subpart C—Requirements Applicable to Eligibility, Rates, and Payments
51.40
Basic per diem rates.
51.41
Contracts and State home care agreements for certain veterans with service-connected disabilities.
51.42
Payment procedures.
51.43
Drugs and medicines for certain veterans.
51.50
Eligible veterans—nursing home care.
51.51
Eligible veterans—domiciliary care.
51.52
Eligible veterans—adult day health care.
51.58
Requirements and Standards applicable for payment of per diem.
51.59
Authority to continue payment of per diem when veterans are relocated due to emergency.

# Subpart D—Standards Applicable to the Payment of Per Diem for Nursing Home Care.
51.60
Standards applicable for payment of per diem.
51.70
Resident rights.
51.80
Admission, transfer and discharge rights.
51.90
Resident behavior and facility practices.
51.100
Quality of life.
51.110
Resident assessment.
51.120
Quality of care.
51.130
Nursing services.
51.140
Dietary services.
51.150
Physician services.
51.160
Specialized rehabilitative services.
51.170
Dental services.
51.180
Pharmacy services.
51.190
Infection control.
51.200
Physical environment.
51.210
Administration.

# Subpart E—Standards Applicable to the Payment of Per Diem for Domiciliary Care
51.300
Resident rights and behavior; State home practices; quality of life.
51.310
Resident admission, assessment, care plan, and discharge.
51.320
Quality of care.
51.330
Nursing care.
51.340
Physician and other licensed medical practitioner services.
51.350
Provision of certain specialized services and environmental requirements.
51.390
Administration.

# Subpart F—Standards Applicable to the Payment of per Diem for Adult Day Health Care
51.400
Participant rights.
51.405
Participant and family caregiver responsibilities.
51.410
Transfer and discharge.
51.411
Program practices.
51.415
Restraints, abuse, and staff treatment of participants.
51.420
Quality of life.
51.425
Physician orders and participant medical assessment.
51.430
Quality of care.
51.435
Nursing services.
51.440
Dietary services.
51.445
Physician services.
51.450
Specialized rehabilitative services.
51.455
Dental services.
51.460
Administration of drugs.
51.465
Infection control.
51.470
Physical environment.
51.475
Administration.
51.480
Transportation.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1720, 1741-1743, 1745, and as follows.
Section 51.20 and 51.30 also issued under 38 U.S.C. 511, 1742, 7104 and 7105.
Section 51.42 also issued under 38 U.S.C. 510, 1744, and Pub. L. 116-315 section 3007.
Section 51.43 also issued under 38 U.S.C. 1712.
Section 51.51 also issued under Pub. L. 116-315 section 3007.
Section 51.310 also issued under 38 U.S.C. 1720(f).

# Source:
65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 51 appear at 74 FR 19432, Apr. 29, 2009.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
83 FR 61271, Nov. 28, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.1
Purpose and scope of this part.
The purpose of this part is to establish VA's policies, procedures, and standards applicable to the payment of per diem to State homes that provide nursing home care, domiciliary care, or adult day health care to eligible veterans. Subpart B of this part sets forth the procedures for recognition and certification of a State home. Subpart C sets forth requirements governing the rates of, and procedures applicable to, the payment of per diem; the provision of drugs and medicines; and for which veterans VA will pay per diem. Subparts D, E, and F set forth standards that any State home seeking per diem payments for nursing home care (subpart D), domiciliary care (subpart E), or adult day health care (subpart F) must meet.
§ 51.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Activities of daily living (ADLs)
means the functions or tasks for self-care usually performed in the normal course of a day,
i.e.,
mobility, bathing, dressing, grooming, toileting, transferring, and eating.
Adult day health care
means a therapeutic outpatient care program that includes one or more of the following services, based on patient care needs: Medical services, rehabilitation, therapeutic activities, socialization, and nutrition. Services are provided in a congregate setting.
Clinical nurse specialist
means a licensed professional nurse with a master's degree in nursing and a major in a clinical nursing specialty from an academic program accredited by the National League for Nursing.
Director
means the Director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction, unless the reference is specifically to another type of director.
Domiciliary care
means the furnishing of a home to a veteran, including the furnishing of shelter, food, and other comforts of home, and necessary medical services as defined in this part. For purposes of the definition of “domiciliary care,”
necessary medical services
means the medical services subpart E of this part requires the State home to provide.
Eligible veteran
means a veteran whose care in a State home may serve as a basis for per diem payments to the State. The requirements that an eligible veteran must meet are set forth in §§ 51.50 (nursing home care), 51.51 (domiciliary care), and 51.52 (adult day health care).
Licensed medical practitioner
means a nurse practitioner, physician, physician assistant, or primary care physician.
Nurse practitioner
means a licensed professional nurse who is currently licensed to practice in a State; who meets that State's requirements governing the qualifications of nurse practitioners; and who is currently certified as an adult, family, or gerontological nurse practitioner by a nationally recognized body that provides such certification for nurse practitioners, such as the American Nurses Credentialing Center or the American Academy of Nurse Practitioners.
Nursing home care
means the accommodation of convalescents or other persons who are not acutely ill and not in need of hospital care, but who require nursing care and related medical services, if such nursing care and medical services are prescribed by, or are performed under the general direction of, persons duly licensed to provide such care. The term includes services
furnished in skilled nursing care facilities, in intermediate care facilities, and in combined facilities. It does not include domiciliary care.
Participant
means an individual receiving adult day health care.
Physician
means a doctor of medicine or osteopathy legally authorized to practice medicine or surgery in the State.
Physician assistant
means a person who meets the applicable State requirements for a physician assistant, is currently certified by the National Commission on Certification of Physician Assistants as a physician assistant, and has an individualized written scope of practice that determines the authorization to write medical orders, to prescribe medications, and to accomplish other clinical tasks under appropriate physician supervision.
Primary care physician
means a designated generalist physician responsible for providing, directing, and coordinating health care that is indicated for the residents or participants.
Program of care
means any or all of the three levels of care for which VA may pay per diem under this part.
Resident
means an individual receiving nursing home or domiciliary care.
State
means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
State home
means a home recognized and, to the extent required by this part, certified pursuant to this part that a State established primarily for veterans disabled by age, disease, or otherwise, who by reason of such disability are incapable of earning a living. A State home must provide at least one program of care (
i.e.,
domiciliary care, nursing home care, or adult day health care).
VA
means the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
Veteran
means a veteran under 38 U.S.C. 101.

# Subpart B—Obtaining Recognition and Certification for per Diem Payments

# Source:
83 FR 61272, Nov. 28, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.20
Recognition of a State home.
(a)
How to apply for recognition.
To apply for recognition of a home for purposes of receiving per diem from VA, a State must submit a letter requesting recognition to the Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care in VA Central Office, 810 Vermont Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20420. The letter must be signed by the State official authorized to make the request. The letter will be reviewed by VA, in accordance with this section.
(b)
Survey and recommendation by Director.
(1) After receipt of a letter requesting recognition, VA will survey the home in accordance with § 51.31 to determine whether the facility and program of care meet the applicable requirements of subpart C and the applicable standards in subpart D, E, or F of this part. For purposes of the recognition process including the survey, references to State homes in the standards apply to homes that are being considered by VA for recognition as State homes.
(2) If the Director of the VA Medical Center of jurisdiction determines that the applicable requirements and standards are met, the Director will submit a written recommendation for recognition to the Under Secretary for Health.
(3) If the Director does not recommend recognition, the Director will submit a written recommendation against recognition to the Under Secretary for Health and will notify in writing the State official who signed the letter submitted under paragraph (a) of this section and the State official authorized to oversee operations of the home. The notification will state the following:
(i) The specific standard(s) not met; and
(ii) The State's right to submit a response to the Under Secretary for Health, including any additional evidence, no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the notification to the State.
(c)
Decision by the Under Secretary for Health.
After receipt of a recommendation from the Director, and allowing 30 calendar days for the state to respond to a negative recommendation and to submit evidence, the Under Secretary for Health will award or deny recognition based on all available evidence. The applicant will be notified of the decision in writing. Adverse decisions may be appealed to the Board of Veterans' Appeals (see 38 CFR part 20).
(d)
Effect of recognition.
(1) Recognition of a State home means that, at the time of recognition, the facility and its program of care meet the applicable requirements of this part. The State home must obtain certification after recognition in accordance with § 51.30.
(2) After a State home is recognized, any new annex, new branch, or other expansion in the size or capacity of a home or any relocation of the home to a new facility must be separately recognized.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0161)
§ 51.30
Certification of a State home.
(a)
General certification requirement.
To be certified, the State home must allow VA to survey the home in accordance with § 51.31. A State home must be certified no later than 450 calendar days after the State home is recognized. Certifications expire 600 calendar days after the date of their issuance.
(b)
Periodic certifications required.
The Director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction will certify a State home based on a survey conducted at least once every 270-450 calendar days, at VA's discretion, and will notify the State official authorized to oversee operations of the State home of the decision regarding certification.
(c)
Decreasing capacity for a program of care.
The State must report any decreases in the capacity for a particular program of care to the Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care in VA Central Office, 810 Vermont Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20420 no later than 30 calendar days after such decrease, and must provide an explanation for the decrease.
(d)
Provisional certification
—(1)
When issuance is required.
After a VA survey, the Director must issue a provisional certification for the surveyed State home if the Director determines that all of the following are true:
(i) The State home does not meet one or more of the applicable requirements or standards in this part;
(ii) None of these deficiencies immediately jeopardize the health or safety of any resident or participant;
(iii) No later than 20 working days after receipt by the State home of the survey report, the State submitted to the Director a written plan to remedy each deficiency in a specified amount of time; and
(iv) The plan is reasonable and the Director has sent a written notice to the appropriate person(s) at the State home informing him or her that the Director agrees to the plan.
(2)
Surveys to continue while under provisional certification.
VA will continue to survey the State home while it is under a provisional certification in accordance with this section and § 51.31. After such a survey, the Director will continue the provisional certification if the Director determines that the four criteria listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)-(iv) of this section are true.
(e)
Notice and the right to appeal a denial of certification.
A State home has the right to appeal when the Director determines that a State home does not meet the requirements of this part (
i.e.,
denies certification). An appeal is not provided to a State for a State home that receives a provisional certification because, by providing the corrective action plan necessary to receive a provisional certification, a State demonstrates its acceptance of VA's determination that it does not meet the VA standards for which the corrective action plan was submitted.
(1)
Notice of decision denying certification.
The Director will issue in writing a decision denying certification that sets forth the specific standard(s) not met. The Director will send a copy of this decision to the State official authorized to oversee operations of the State home, and notify that official of the State's right to submit a written
appeal to the Under Secretary for Health as stated in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. If the State home does not submit a timely written appeal, the Director's decision becomes final and VA will not pay per diem for any care provided on or after the 31st day after the State's receipt of the Director's decision.
(2)
Appeal of denial of certification.
The State must submit a written appeal no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the notice of the denial of certification. The appeal must explain why the denial of certification is inaccurate or incomplete and provide any relevant information not considered by the Director. Any appeal that does not identify a reason for disagreement will be returned to the sender without further consideration. If the State home submits a timely written appeal, the Director's decision will not take effect and VA will continue to pay per diem to the State home pending a decision by the Under Secretary for Health.
(3)
Decision on appeal of a denial of certification.
The Under Secretary for Health will review the matter, including any relevant supporting documentation, and issue a written decision that affirms or reverses the Director's decision. The State will be notified of the decision, which may be appealed to the Board of Veterans' Appeals (see 38 CFR part 20) if it results in a loss of per diem payments to the State. VA will terminate recognition and certification and discontinue per diem payments for care provided on and after the date of the Under Secretary for Health's decision affirming a denial of certification or on a later date that must be specified by the Under Secretary for Health.
(f)
Other appeals.
Appeals of matters not addressed in this section will be governed by 38 CFR part 20.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0161)
§ 51.31
Surveys for recognition and/or certification.
(a)
General.
Both before and after a home is recognized and certified, VA may survey the home as necessary to determine whether it complies with applicable regulations. VA will provide advance notice before a recognition survey, but advance notice is not required before other surveys. A survey, as necessary, may cover all parts of the home or only certain parts, and may include review, audit, and production of any records that have a bearing on compliance with the requirements of this part (including any reports from state or local entities), as well as the completion and submission to VA of all required forms. The Director will designate the VA officials and/or contractors to survey the home.
(b)
Recognition surveys.
VA will not conduct a recognition survey unless the following minimum requirements are met:
(1) For nursing homes and domiciliaries, the home has at least 20 residents or has a number of residents consisting of at least 50 percent of the resident capacity of the home;
(2) For adult day health care programs of care, the program has at least 10 participants or has a number of participants consisting of at least 50 percent of participant capacity of the program.
(c)
Threats to public, resident, or participant safety.
If VA identifies a condition at the home that poses an immediate threat to public, resident or participant safety, or other information indicating the existence of such a threat, the Director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction will immediately report this to the VA Network Director (10N1-22); the Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care in VA Central Office; and the State official authorized to oversee operations of the home.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.32
Terminating recognition.
Once a home has achieved recognition, the recognition will be terminated only if the State requests that the recognition be terminated, or if VA makes a final decision that affirms the Director's decision not to certify the State home.

# Subpart C—Requirements Applicable to Eligibility, Rates, and Payments
§ 51.40
Basic per diem rates.
(a)
Basic rate.
Except as provided in § 51.41, VA will pay per diem for care provided to an eligible veteran at a State home at the lesser of the following rates:
(1) One-half of the daily cost of the care for each day the veteran is in the State home, as calculated under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) The basic per diem rate for each day the veteran is in the State home. The basic per diem rate is established by VA for each fiscal year in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 1741(a) and (c).

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
To determine the number of days that a veteran was in a State home, see paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
How to calculate the daily cost of a veteran's care.
The daily cost of care consists of those direct and indirect costs attributable to care at the State home, divided by the total number of residents serviced by the program of care. Cost principles are set forth in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) regulations. 2 CFR 200.400-200.475.
(c)
Determining whether a veteran spent a day receiving nursing home or domiciliary care
—(1)
Nursing homes.
VA will pay per diem for each day that the veteran is receiving nursing home care and has an overnight stay at the State home. Per diem also will be paid for a day when there is no overnight stay if the State home nursing home care program has an occupancy rate of 90 percent or greater on that day. However, these payments will be made only for the first 10 consecutive days during which the veteran is admitted as a patient for any stay in a VA or other hospital (a hospital stay could occur more than once in a calendar year once there is an overnight stay in the State home between hospital stays) and only for the first 12 days in a calendar year during which the veteran is absent for purposes other than receiving hospital care. Occupancy rate is calculated by dividing the total number of residents (including nonveterans) in the nursing home on that day by the total recognized nursing home capacity in that State home.
(2)
Domiciliaries.
VA will pay per diem for each day that the veteran is receiving domiciliary care and has an overnight stay at the State home. VA will also pay per diem during any absence of 96 or fewer consecutive hours for purposes other than receiving hospital care at VA expense, but VA will not pay per diem for any part of the absence if it continues for longer than 96 consecutive hours. Absences that are not interrupted by at least 24 hours of continuous residence in the State home are considered one continuous absence.
(d)
Determining whether a Veteran spent a day receiving adult day health care.
Per diem will be paid for a day of adult day health care. For purposes of this section a day of adult day health care means:
(1) Six hours or more in one calendar day in which a veteran receives adult day health care; or
(2) Any two periods of at least 3 hours each but less than 6 hours each in any 2 calendar days in the same calendar month in which the veteran receives adult day health care.
(3) Time during which the State home provides transportation between the veteran's residence and the State home or to a health care visit, or provides staff to accompany a veteran during transportation or a health care visit, will be included as time the veteran receives adult day health care.
[83 FR 61274, Nov. 28, 2018]
§ 51.41
Contracts and State home care agreements for certain veterans with service-connected disabilities.
(a)
Contract or State home care agreement required.
VA and State homes may enter into both contracts and State home care agreements. VA will pay for each eligible veteran's care through either a contract or a “State home care agreement.” Eligible veterans are those who:
(1) Are in need of nursing home care for a VA adjudicated service-connected disability, or
(2) Have a singular or combined rating of 70 percent or more based on one or more service-connected disabilities or a rating of total disability based on individual unemployability and are in need of nursing home care.
(b)
Payments under contracts.
Contracts under this section will be subject to this part to the extent provided for in the contract and will be governed by federal acquisition law and regulation. Contracts for payment under this section will provide for payment either:
(1) At a rate or rates negotiated between VA and the State home; or
(2) On request from a State home that provided nursing home care on August 5, 2012, for which the State home was eligible for payment under 38 U.S.C. 1745(a)(1), at a rate that reflects the overall methodology of reimbursement for such care that was in effect for the State home on August 5, 2012.
(c)
Payments under State home care agreements.
(1) State homes must sign an agreement to receive payment from VA for providing care to certain eligible veterans under a State home care agreement. A State home care agreement for nursing home care under this section will provide for payments at the rate determined by the following formula.
(i) Determine whether the Resource Utilization Groups (RUG) or Skilled Nursing Facility Prospective Payment System (SNF-PPS) applies.
(A) For State homes in a metropolitan statistical area, use the published fiscal year Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) RUG case-mix levels for the applicable metropolitan statistical area.
(B) For State homes in a rural area, use the published fiscal year CMS SNF-PPS case-mix levels for the applicable rural area.
(ii) Compute the daily rate for each State home, using the following formula in the order described:
(A) Multiply the labor component by the State home wage index for each of the applicable case-mix levels.
(B) Add to that amount the non-labor component.
(C) Divide the sum of the results of these calculations by the number of applicable case-mix levels.
(D) Add to this quotient the amount based on the CMS payment schedule for physician services. The amount for physician services, based on information published by CMS, is the average hourly rate for all physicians, with the rate modified by the applicable urban or rural geographic index for physician work, then multiplied by 12, then divided by the number of days in the year. The resulting sum is the per diem baseline rate for the State home.
(E) Multiply the per diem baseline rate from the previous year by the CMS Skilled Nursing Facilities (SNF) Market Basket increase in effect as of December 28, 2023. The sum establishes the reference total per diem baseline rate from which subsequent fiscal year per diem rates will be calculated. For calculation of SNF per diem rates for subsequent fiscal years VA will apply the CMS SNF Market Basket increase to the total per diem each year.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# )(1):
The amount calculated under this formula reflects the prevailing rate payable in the geographic area in which the State home is located for nursing home care furnished in a State home. The amount calculated under this formula applies to both new and existing facilities with State home care agreements. Further, the formula for establishing these rates includes CMS information that is published in the
Federal Register
every year and is effective beginning October 1 for the entire fiscal year. Accordingly, VA will adjust the rates annually.
(2) The State home shall not charge any individual, insurer, or entity (other than VA) for the nursing home care paid for by VA under a State home care agreement. Also, as a condition of receiving payments under paragraph (c), the State home must agree not to accept drugs and medicines from VA provided under 38 U.S.C. 1712(d) on behalf of veterans covered by this section and corresponding VA regulations (payment under this paragraph (c) includes payment for drugs and medicines).
(3) Agreements under this paragraph (c) will be subject to this part, except to the extent that this part conflicts with this section. For purposes of this section, the term “per diem” in part 51 includes payments under State home care agreements.
(4) If a veteran receives a retroactive VA service-connected disability rating and becomes a veteran identified in paragraph (a) of this section, the State home may request payment under the State home care agreement for nursing
home care back to the retroactive effective date of the rating or February 2, 2013, whichever is later. For care provided after the effective date but before February 2, 2013, the State home may request payment at the special per diem rate that was in effect at the time that the care was rendered.
(d)
VA signing official.
State home care agreements must be signed by the Director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction or designee.
(e)
Forms.
Prior to entering into a State home care agreement, State homes must submit to the VA medical center of jurisdiction a completed VA Form 10-10EZ, Application for Medical Benefits (or VA Form 10-10EZR, Health Benefits Renewal Form, if a completed VA Form 10-10EZ is already on file at VA), and a completed VA Form 10-10SH, State Home Program Application for Care—Medical Certification, for the veterans for whom the State home will seek payment under the State home care agreement. After VA and the State home have entered into a State home care agreement, forms for payment must be submitted in accordance with § 51.42. Copies of VA Forms can be obtained from any VA Medical Center and are available on our website at
www.va.gov/vaforms.
(f)
Termination of State home care agreements.
(1) A State home that wishes to terminate a VA provider agreement with VA must send written notice of its intent to the Director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction at least 30 days before the effective date of termination of the agreement. The notice shall include the intended date of termination.
(2) State home care agreements will terminate on the date of a final decision that the home is no longer recognized or certified by VA under part 51.
(g)
Compliance with Federal laws.
Under State home care agreements entered into under this section, State homes are not required to comply with reporting and auditing requirements imposed under the Service Contract Act of 1965, as amended (41 U.S.C. 6701,
et seq.
); however, State homes must comply with all other applicable Federal laws concerning employment and hiring practices including the Fair Labor Standards Act, National Labor Relations Act, the Civil Rights Acts, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Vocational Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Occupational Health and Safety Act of 1970, Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Consumer Credit Protection Act, the Employee Polygraph Protection Act, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 2900-0091 and 2900-0160)
[77 FR 72741, Dec. 6, 2012, as amended at 84 FR 67872, Dec. 12, 2019; 88 FR 83033, Nov. 28, 2023]
§ 51.42
Payment procedures.
(a)
Forms required
—(1)
Forms required at time of admission or enrollment.
As a condition for receiving payment of per diem under this part, the State home must submit the forms identified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section to the VA medical center of jurisdiction for each veteran at the time of the veteran's admission to or enrollment in a State home. If the home is not a recognized State home, the home must, after recognition, submit forms for Veterans who received care on and after the date of the completion of the VA survey that provided the basis for determining that the home met the standards of this part. The State home must also submit the appropriate form with any request for a change in the type of per diem paid on behalf of a veteran as a result of a change in the veteran's program of care or a change in the veteran's service-connected disability rating that makes the veteran's care eligible for payment under § 51.41. Copies of VA Forms can be obtained from any VA Medical Center and are available on our website at
www.va.gov/vaforms.
The required forms are:
(i) A completed VA Form 10-10EZ, Application for Medical Benefits (or VA Form 10-10EZR, Health Benefits
Renewal Form, if a completed Form 10-10EZ is already on file at VA).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
a

# )(1)(
i

# ):
Domiciliary applicants and residents must complete the financial disclosure sections of VA Forms 10-10EZ and 10-10EZR, and adult day health care applicants may be required to complete the financial disclosure sections of these forms in order to enroll with VA. Although the nursing home applicants or residents or adult day health care participants do not complete the financial disclosure sections of VA Forms 10-10EZ and 10-10EZR, an unsigned form is incomplete, and VA will not accept the form.
(ii) A completed VA Form 10-10SH, State Home Program Application for Care—Medical Certification.
(2)
Form required for monthly payments.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, VA pays per diem on a monthly basis for care provided during the prior month. To receive payment, the State must submit each month to the VA a completed VA Form 10-5588, State Home Report and Statement of Federal Aid Claimed.
(b)
Commencement of payments
—(1)
Per diem payments for a newly-recognized State home.
No per diem payments will be made until VA recognizes the home and each veteran resident for whom VA pays per diem is verified as being eligible; however, per diem payments will be made retroactively for care that was provided on and after the date of the completion of the VA survey that provided the basis for determining that the home met the standards of this part.
(2)
Per diem payments for capacity certified under § 51.30(c).
Per diem will be paid for the care of veterans in capacity certified in accordance with § 51.30(c) retroactive to the date of the completion of the survey if the Director certifies the capacity as a result of that survey.
(3)
Payments for eligible veterans.
When a State home admits or enrolls an eligible veteran, VA will pay per diem under this part from the date of receipt of the completed forms required by this section, except that VA will pay per diem from the date care began if the Director receives the completed forms no later than 10 calendar days after care began. VA will make retroactive payments of per diem under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section only if the Director receives the completed forms that must be submitted under this section.
(c)
Retroactive payments.
VA will make per diem payments under this part retroactive to the date specified by paragraph (b)(3) of this section, or January 5, 2021, whichever date is later, if all the following are met:
(1) Within 90 calendar days of [EFFECTIVE DATE OF FINAL RULE] the State home provides VA a written list of veterans' names for whom completed forms were received by VA on or after January 5, 2021, and the State home requests that VA consider them for a waiver under § 51.51(b)(2);
(2) With respect to the veterans on the written list under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, VA denied the State's request for per diem for the veterans when their forms were originally submitted and the denial was solely because the veteran did not meet the requirements under 38 CFR 51.51(b) (2021);
(3) Upon VA review, the veteran would have received a waiver under § 51.51(b)(2) if that paragraph had been in effect when the request for per diem was originally submitted; and
(4) Within 90 calendar days of [EFFECTIVE DATE OF FINAL RULE] the State home submits to VA a completed VA Form 10-5588, State Home Report and Statement of Federal Aid Claimed, for each month that the State home provided domiciliary care to a veteran for whom the home is requesting a waiver. The form would only cover the veterans not originally included on the form when submitted previously for that month.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control numbers 2900-0091 and 2900-0160)
[83 FR 61274, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 86249, Oct. 30, 2024]
§ 51.43
Drugs and medicines for certain veterans.
(a) In addition to the per diem payments under § 51.40 of this part, the Secretary will furnish drugs and medicines to a State home as may be ordered by prescription of a duly licensed physician as specific therapy in the
treatment of illness or injury for a veteran receiving nursing home care in a State home if—
(1) The veteran:
(i) Has a singular or combined rating of less than 50 percent based on one or more service-connected disabilities and needs the drugs and medicines for a service-connected disability; and
(ii) Needs nursing home care for reasons that do not include care for a VA adjudicated service-connected disability; or
(2) The veteran:
(i) Has a singular or combined rating of 50 or 60 percent based on one or more service-connected disabilities and needs the drugs and medicines; and
(ii) Needs nursing home care for reasons that do not include care for a VA adjudicated service-connected disability.
(b) VA will also furnish drugs and medicines to a State home for a veteran receiving nursing home, domiciliary, or adult day health care in a State home pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1712(d), as implemented by § 17.96 of this chapter, subject to the limitation in § 51.41(c)(2).
(c) VA may furnish a drug or medicine under paragraph (a) of this section and under § 17.96 of this chapter only if the drug or medicine is included on VA's National Formulary, unless VA determines a non-Formulary drug or medicine is medically necessary.
(d) VA may furnish a drug or medicine under this section and under § 17.96 of this chapter by having the drug or medicine delivered to the State home in which the veteran resides by mail or other means and packaged in a form that is mutually acceptable to the State home and to VA set forth in a written agreement.
(e) As a condition for receiving drugs or medicine under this section or under § 17.96 of this chapter, the State must submit to the VA medical center of jurisdiction a completed VA Form 10-0460 with the corresponding prescription(s) for each eligible veteran.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
[83 FR 61274, Nov. 28, 2018]
§ 51.50
Eligible veterans—nursing home care.
A veteran is an eligible veteran for the purposes of payment of per diem for nursing home care under this part if VA determines that the veteran needs nursing home care; is not barred from receiving care based on his or her service (see 38 U.S.C. 5303, 5303A), is not barred from receiving VA pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation based on the character of a discharge from military service (see 38 CFR 3.12) and is within one of the following categories:
(a) Veterans with service-connected disabilities;
(b) Veterans who are former prisoners of war, who were awarded the Purple Heart, or who were awarded the medal of honor under 10 U.S.C. 3741, 6241, or 8741 or 14 U.S.C. 491;
(c) Veterans who were discharged or released from active military service for a disability incurred or aggravated in the line of duty;
(d) Veterans who receive disability compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1151;
(e) Veterans whose entitlement to disability compensation is suspended because of the receipt of retired pay;
(f) Veterans whose entitlement to disability compensation is suspended pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1151, but only to the extent that such veterans' continuing eligibility for nursing home care is provided for in the judgment or settlement described in 38 U.S.C. 1151;
(g) Veterans who VA determines are unable to defray the expenses of necessary care as specified under 38 U.S.C. 1722(a);
(h) Veterans solely seeking care for a disorder associated with exposure to a toxic substance or radiation, for a disorder associated with service in the Southwest Asia theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War, as provided in 38 U.S.C. 1710(e), or for any illness associated with service in combat in a war after the Gulf War or during a period of hostility after November 11, 1998, as provided and limited in 38 U.S.C. 1710(e);
(i) Veterans of World War II;
(j) Veterans who agree to pay to the United States the applicable co-payment determined under 38 U.S.C. 1710(f) and 1710(g).

# Note 1 to paragraph (
j

# ):
Neither enrollment in the VA healthcare system nor eligibility to enroll is required to be an eligible veteran for the purposes of payment of per diem for nursing home care.
[83 FR 61275, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 45601, May 23, 2024]
§ 51.51
Eligible veterans—domiciliary care.
(a) A veteran is an eligible veteran for the purposes of payment of per diem for domiciliary care in a State home under this part if VA determines that the veteran is not barred from receiving care based on his or her service (see 38 U.S.C. 5303, 5303A), is not barred from receiving VA pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation based on the character of a discharge from military service (see 38 CFR 3.12), and the veteran is:
(1) A veteran whose annual income does not exceed the maximum annual rate of pension payable to a veteran in need of regular aid and attendance; or
(2) A veteran who VA determines has no adequate means of support. When an applicant's annual income exceeds the rate of pension described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, VA will determine if the applicant has no adequate means of support. This determination will be made through an assessment of the veteran's deficits in health or functional status that may render the veteran incapable of achieving or sustaining independence in the community as determined by the Chief of Staff of the VA medical center of jurisdiction, or designee. Assessment of whether the veteran has no adequate means of support will be based on objective evidence that considers factors that are inclusive of but not limited to:
(i) The impact of the severity of the veteran's medical condition, disabilities, and symptoms on the veteran's safety in the community;
(ii) The impact of the severity of the veteran's medical condition, disabilities, and symptoms on the veteran's ability to provide self-care;
(iii) The availability of community or family support systems;
(iv) The impact of the severity of the veteran's medical condition, disabilities, and symptoms on the veteran's ability to access and utilize community support systems;
(v) The risk of loss of housing in the community;
(vi) The risk of loss of the veteran's income;
(vii) Access to outpatient mental health and substance use disorder care; and
(viii) The current effectiveness of any outpatient mental health and substance use disorder care provided to the veteran.
(b)(1) For purposes of this section, the eligible veteran must be able to perform the following:
(i) Daily ablutions, such as brushing teeth, bathing, combing hair, and body eliminations, without assistance.
(ii) Dress himself or herself with a minimum of assistance.
(iii) Proceed to and return from the dining hall without aid.
(iv) Feed himself or herself.
(v) Secure medical attention on an ambulatory basis or by use of a personally propelled wheelchair.
(vi) Have voluntary control over body eliminations or have control by use of an appropriate prosthesis.
(vii) Make rational and competent decisions as to the veteran's desire to remain in or leave the State home; or, if the veteran lacks the general capacity to make this residential care placement decision, as defined by State law, then the veteran's legal representative designated in accordance with State law, is authorized to make this decision on behalf of the veteran.
(2) The Chief of Staff of the VA medical center of jurisdiction, or designee, may waive the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section for purposes of payment of per diem for domiciliary care in a State home on or after January 5, 2021, if the veteran is able to perform not fewer than four of the requirements set forth in such paragraph; or such waiver would be, based on a clinical determination, in the best interest of the veteran because receipt of domiciliary care in the particular State home would likely be beneficial to the veteran. This clinical determination must consider whether receiving domiciliary care in the State home would significantly enhance the veteran's ability to live safely, would support the veteran's potential
progress in rehabilitation, if such potential exists, and would create an environment that supports the health and well-being of the veteran. In granting a waiver of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the Chief of Staff of the VA medical center of jurisdiction, or designee, must make a finding that the State home has the capability to provide the domiciliary care that the veteran needs.
[83 FR 61275, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 89 FR 86249, Oct. 30, 2024]
§ 51.52
Eligible veterans—adult day health care.
A veteran is an eligible veteran for payment of per diem to a State for adult day health care if VA determines that the veteran:
(a) Is not barred from receiving VA pension, compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation based on the character of a discharge from military service (see 38 CFR 3.12);
(b) Is enrolled in the VA health care system;
(c) Would otherwise require nursing home care; and
(d) Needs adult day health care because the veteran meets any one of the following conditions:
(1) The veteran has three or more Activities of Daily Living (ADL) dependencies.
(2) The veteran has significant cognitive impairment.
(3) The veteran has two ADL dependencies and two or more of the following conditions:
(i) Seventy-five years old or older;
(ii) High use of medical services,
i.e.,
three or more hospitalizations per calendar year, or 12 or more visits to an outpatient clinic or to an emergency evaluation unit per calendar year;
(iii) Diagnosis of clinical depression; or
(iv) Living alone in the community.
(4) The veteran does not meet the criteria in paragraph (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, but nevertheless a licensed VA medical practitioner determines the veteran needs adult day health care services.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1720(f), 1741-1743)
[83 FR 61275, Nov. 28, 2018]
§ 51.58
Requirements and Standards applicable for payment of per diem.
A State home must meet the requirements in subpart C and the standards in the applicable subpart to be recognized, certified, and receive per diem for that program of care:
(a) For nursing home care, subpart D.
(b) For domiciliary care, subpart E.
(c) For adult day health care, subpart F.
[83 FR 61276, Nov. 28, 2018]
§ 51.59
Authority to continue payment of per diem when veterans are relocated due to emergency.
(a)
Definition of emergency.
For the purposes of this section, emergency means an occasion or instance where all of the following are true:
(1) It would be unsafe for veterans receiving care at a State home to remain in that home.
(2) The State is not, or believes that it will not be, able to provide care in the State home on a temporary or long-term basis for any or all of its veteran residents due to a situation involving the State home, and not due to a situation where a particular veteran's medical condition requires that the veteran be transferred to another facility, such as for a period of hospitalization.
(3) The State determines that the veterans must be evacuated to another facility or facilities.
(b)
General authority to pay per diem during a relocation period.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA will continue to pay per diem for a period not to exceed 30 calendar days for any eligible veteran who resided in a State home, and for whom VA was paying per diem, if such veteran is evacuated during an emergency into a facility other than a VA nursing home, hospital, domiciliary, or other VA site of care if the State is responsible for providing or paying for the care. VA will not pay per diem under this section for more than 30 calendar days of care provided in the evacuation facility, unless the official who approved the emergency response under paragraph (e) of this section determines that it is not reasonably possible to return the veteran to a State home within the 30-calendar-day period, in
which case such official will approve additional period(s) of no more than 30 calendar days in accordance with this section. VA will not pay per diem if VA determines that a veteran is or has been placed in a facility that does not meet the standards set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and VA may recover all per diem paid for the care of the veteran in that facility.
(c)
Selection of evacuation facilities.
The following standards and procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) apply to the selection of an evacuation facility in order for VA to continue to pay per diem during an emergency. These standards and procedures also apply to evacuation facilities when veterans are evacuated from a nursing home in which care is being provided pursuant to a contract under 38 U.S.C. 1720.
(1) Each veteran who is evacuated must be placed in a facility that, at a minimum, will meet the needs for food, shelter, toileting, and essential medical care of that veteran.
(2) For veterans evacuated from nursing homes, the following types of facilities may meet the standards under paragraph (c)(1) of this section:
(i) VA Community Living Centers;
(ii) VA contract nursing homes;
(iii) Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services certified facilities; and
(iv) Licensed nursing homes.

# Note 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(2):
If none of the above options are available, veterans may be evacuated temporarily to other facilities that meet the standards under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) For veterans evacuated from domiciliaries, the following types of facilities may meet the standards in paragraph (c)(1) of this section:
(i) Emergency evacuation facilities identified by the city or State;
(ii) Assisted living facilities; and
(iii) Hotels.
(d)
Applicability to adult day health care programs of care.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA will continue to pay per diem for a period not to exceed 30 calendar days for any eligible veteran who was receiving adult day health care, and for whom VA was paying per diem, if the adult day health care facility becomes temporarily unavailable due to an emergency. Approval of a temporary program of care for such veteran is subject to paragraph (e) of this section. If after 30 calendar days the veteran cannot return to the adult day health care program in the State home, VA will discontinue per diem payments unless the official who approved the emergency response under paragraph (e) of this section determines that it is not reasonably possible to provide care in the State home or to relocate an eligible veteran to a different recognized or certified facility, in which case such official will approve additional period(s) of no more than 30 calendar days at the temporary program of care in accordance with this section. VA will not pay per diem if VA determines that a veteran was provided adult day health care in a facility that does not meet the standards set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and VA may recover all per diem paid for the care of the veteran in that facility.
(e)
Approval of response.
Per diem payments will not be made under this section unless and until the Director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction or the director of the VISN in which the State home is located (if the VAMC Director is not capable of doing so) determines, that an emergency exists and that the evacuation facility meets VA standards set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
[83 FR 61276, Nov. 28, 2018]

# Subpart D—Standards Applicable to the Payment of Per Diem for Nursing Home Care.
§ 51.60
Standards applicable for payment of per diem.
The provisions of this subpart are the standards that a State home and facility management must meet for the State to receive per diem for nursing home care.
§ 51.70
Resident rights.
The resident has a right to a dignified existence, self-determination, and communication with and access to persons and services inside and outside the facility. The facility management must protect and promote the rights of each resident, including each of the following rights:
(a)
Exercise of rights.
(1) The resident has the right to exercise his or her rights as a resident of the facility and as a citizen or resident of the United States.
(2) The resident has the right to be free of interference, coercion, discrimination, and reprisal from the facility management in exercising his or her rights.
(3) The resident has the right to freedom from chemical or physical restraint.
(4) In the case of a resident determined incompetent under the laws of a State by a court of jurisdiction, the rights of the resident are exercised by the person appointed under State law to act on the resident's behalf.
(5) In the case of a resident who has not been determined incompetent by the State court, any legal-surrogate designated in accordance with State law may exercise the resident's rights to the extent provided by State law.
(b)
Notice of rights and services.
(1) The facility management must inform the resident both orally and in writing in a language that the resident understands of his or her rights and all rules and regulations governing resident conduct and responsibilities during the stay in the facility. Such notification must be made prior to or upon admission and periodically during the resident's stay.
(2) The resident or his or her legal representative has the right:
(i) Upon an oral or written request, to access all records pertaining to himself or herself including current clinical records within 24 hours (excluding weekends and holidays); and
(ii) After receipt of his or her records for review, to purchase at a cost not to exceed the community standard photocopies of the records or any portions of them upon request and with 2 working days advance notice to the facility management.
(3) The resident has the right to be fully informed in language that he or she can understand of his or her total health status;
(4) The resident has the right to refuse treatment, to refuse to participate in experimental research, and to formulate an advance directive as specified in paragraph (b)(7) of this section; and
(5) The facility management must inform each resident before, or at the time of admission, and periodically during the resident's stay, of services available in the facility and of charges for those services to be billed to the resident.
(6) The facility management must furnish a written description of legal rights which includes:
(i) A description of the manner of protecting personal funds, under paragraph (c) of this section;
(ii) A statement that the resident may file a complaint with the State (agency) concerning resident abuse, neglect, misappropriation of resident property in the facility, and non-compliance with the advance directives requirements.
(7) The facility management must have written policies and procedures regarding advance directives (e.g., living wills) that include provisions to inform and provide written information to all residents concerning the right to accept or refuse medical or surgical treatment and, at the individual's option, formulate an advance directive. This includes a written description of the facility's policies to implement advance directives and applicable State law. If an individual is incapacitated at the time of admission and is unable to receive information (due to the incapacitating conditions) or articulate whether or not he or she has executed an advance directive, the facility may give advance directive information to the individual's family or surrogate in the same manner that it issues other materials about policies and procedures to the family of the incapacitated individual or to a surrogate or other concerned persons in accordance with State law. The facility management is not relieved of its obligation to provide this information to the individual once he or she is no longer incapacitated or unable to receive such information. Follow-up procedures must be in place to provide the information to the individual directly at the appropriate time.
(8) The facility management must inform each resident of the name and way of contacting the primary physician responsible for his or her care.
(9) Notification of changes. (i) Facility management must immediately inform the resident; consult with the primary physician; and if known, notify the resident's legal representative or an interested family member when there is—
(A) An accident involving the resident which results in injury and has the potential for requiring physician intervention;
(B) A significant change in the resident's physical, mental, or psychosocial status (
i.e.,
a deterioration in health, mental, or psychosocial status in either life-threatening conditions or clinical complications);
(C) A need to alter treatment significantly (
i.e.,
a need to discontinue an existing form of treatment due to adverse consequences, or to commence a new form of treatment); or
(D) A decision to transfer or discharge the resident from the facility as specified in § 51.80(a) of this part.
(ii) The facility management must also promptly notify the resident and, if known, the resident's legal representative or interested family member when there is—
(A) A change in room or roommate assignment as specified in § 51.100(f)(2); or
(B) A change in resident rights under Federal or State law or regulations as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(iii) The facility management must record and periodically update the address and phone number of the resident's legal representative or interested family member.
(c)
Protection of resident funds.
(1) The resident has the right to manage his or her financial affairs, and the facility management may not require residents to deposit their personal funds with the facility.
(2)
Management of personal funds.
Upon written authorization of a resident, the facility management must hold, safeguard, manage, and account for the personal funds of the resident deposited with the facility, as specified in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(6) of this section.
(3)
Deposit of funds.
(i) Funds in excess of $100. The facility management must deposit any residents' personal funds in excess of $100 in an interest bearing account (or accounts) that is separate from any of the facility's operating accounts, and that credits all interest earned on resident's funds to that account. (In pooled accounts, there must be a separate accounting for each resident's share.)
(ii)
Funds less than $100.
The facility management must maintain a resident's personal funds that do not exceed $100 in a non-interest bearing account, interest-bearing account, or petty cash fund.
(4)
Accounting and records.
The facility management must establish and maintain a system that assures a full and complete and separate accounting, according to generally accepted accounting principles, of each resident's personal funds entrusted to the facility on the resident's behalf.
(i) The system must preclude any commingling of resident funds with facility funds or with the funds of any person other than another resident.
(ii) The individual financial record must be available through quarterly statements and on request from the resident or his or her legal representative.
(5)
Conveyance upon death.
Upon the death of a resident with a personal fund deposited with the facility, the facility management must convey within 90 calendar days the resident's funds, and a final accounting of those funds, to the individual or probate jurisdiction administering the resident's estate; or other appropriate individual or entity, if State law allows.
(6)
Assurance of financial security.
The facility management must purchase a surety bond, or otherwise provide assurance satisfactory to the Under Secretary for Health, to assure the security of all personal funds of residents deposited with the facility.
(d)
Free choice.
The resident has the right to—
(1) Be fully informed in advance about care and treatment and of any changes in that care or treatment that may affect the resident's well-being; and
(2) Unless determined incompetent or otherwise determined to be incapacitated under the laws of the State, participate in planning care and treatment or changes in care and treatment.
(e)
Privacy and confidentiality.
The resident has the right to personal privacy and confidentiality of his or her personal and clinical records.
(1) Residents have a right to personal privacy in their accommodations, medical treatment, written and telephone communications, personal care, visits, and meetings of family and resident groups. This does not require the facility management to give a private room to each resident.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the resident may approve or refuse the release of personal and clinical records to any individual outside the facility;
(3) The resident's right to refuse release of personal and clinical records does not apply when—
(i) The resident is transferred to another health care institution; or
(ii) Record release is required by law.
(f)
Grievances.
A resident has the right to—
(1) Voice grievances without discrimination or reprisal. Residents may voice grievances with respect to treatment received and not received; and
(2) Prompt efforts by the facility to resolve grievances the resident may have, including those with respect to the behavior of other residents.
(g)
Examination of survey results.
A resident has the right to—
(1) Examine the results of the most recent VA survey with respect to the facility. The facility management must make the results available for examination in a place readily accessible to residents, and must post a notice of their availability; and
(2) Receive information from agencies acting as client advocates, and be afforded the opportunity to contact these agencies.
(h)
Work.
The resident has the right to—
(1) Refuse to perform services for the facility;
(2) Perform services for the facility, if he or she chooses, when—
(i) The facility has documented the need or desire for work in the plan of care;
(ii) The plan specifies the nature of the services performed and whether the services are voluntary or paid;
(iii) Compensation for paid services is at or above prevailing rates; and
(iv) The resident agrees to the work arrangement described in the plan of care.
(i)
Mail.
The resident must have the right to privacy in written communications, including the right to—
Send and promptly receive mail that is unopened; and
(2) Have access to stationery, postage, and writing implements at the resident's own expense.
(j)
Access and visitation rights.
(1) The resident has the right and the facility management must provide immediate access to any resident by the following:
(i) Any representative of the Under Secretary for Health;
(ii) Any representative of the State;
(iii) Physicians of the resident's choice (to provide care in the nursing home, physicians must meet the provisions of § 51.210(j));
(iv) The State long term care ombudsman;
(v) Immediate family or other relatives of the resident subject to the resident's right to deny or withdraw consent at any time; and
(vi) Others who are visiting subject to reasonable restrictions and the resident's right to deny or withdraw consent at any time.
(2) The facility management must provide reasonable access to any resident by any entity or individual that provides health, social, legal, or other services to the resident, subject to the resident's right to deny or withdraw consent at any time.
(3) The facility management must allow representatives of the State Ombudsman Program, described in paragraph (j)(1)(iv) of this section, to examine a resident's clinical records with the permission of the resident or the resident's legal representative, subject to State law.
(k)
Telephone.
The resident has the right to reasonable access to use a telephone where calls can be made without being overheard.
(l)
Personal property.
The resident has the right to retain and use personal possessions, including some furnishings, and appropriate clothing, as space permits, unless to do so would infringe upon the rights or health and safety of other residents.
(m)
Married couples.
The resident has the right to share a room with his or her spouse when married residents live in the same facility and both spouses consent to the arrangement.
(n)
Self-Administration of Drugs.
An individual resident may self-administer drugs if the interdisciplinary team, as defined by § 51.110(e)(2)(ii), has determined that this practice is safe.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009; 88 FR 83034, Nov. 28, 2023]
§ 51.80
Admission, transfer and discharge rights.
(a)
Transfer and discharge.
(1) Definition: Transfer and discharge includes movement of a resident to a bed outside of the facility whether that bed is in the same physical plant or not. Transfer and discharge does not refer to movement of a resident to a bed within the same facility.
(2)
Transfer and discharge requirements.
The facility management must permit each resident to remain in the facility, and not transfer or discharge the resident from the facility unless—
(i) The transfer or discharge is necessary for the resident's welfare and the resident's needs cannot be met in the nursing home;
(ii) The transfer or discharge is appropriate because the resident's health has improved sufficiently so the resident no longer needs the services provided by the nursing home;
(iii) The safety of individuals in the facility is endangered;
(iv) The health of individuals in the facility would otherwise be endangered;
(v) The resident has failed, after reasonable and appropriate notice to pay for a stay at the facility; or
(vi) The nursing home ceases to operate.
(3)
Documentation.
When the facility transfers or discharges a resident under any of the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(vi) of this section, the primary physician must document this in the resident's clinical record.
(4)
Notice before transfer.
Before a facility transfers or discharges a resident, the facility must—
(i) Notify the resident and, if known, a family member or legal representative of the resident of the transfer or discharge and the reasons for the move in writing and in a language and manner they understand.
(ii) Record the reasons in the resident's clinical record; and
(iii) Include in the notice the items described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
(5)
Timing of the notice.
(i) The notice of transfer or discharge required under paragraph (a)(4) of this section must be made by the facility at least 30 days before the resident is transferred or discharged, except when specified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section,
(ii) Notice may be made as soon as practicable before transfer or discharge when—
(A) The safety of individuals in the facility would be endangered;
(B) The health of individuals in the facility would be otherwise endangered;
(C) The resident's health improves sufficiently so the resident no longer needs the services provided by the nursing home;
(D) The resident's needs cannot be met in the nursing home;
(6)
Contents of the notice.
The written notice specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section must include the following:
(i) The reason for transfer or discharge;
(ii) The effective date of transfer or discharge;
(iii) The location to which the resident is transferred or discharged;
(iv) A statement that the resident has the right to appeal the action to the State official designated by the State; and
(v) The name, address and telephone number of the State long term care ombudsman.
(7)
Orientation for transfer or discharge.
A facility management must provide sufficient preparation and orientation to residents to ensure safe and orderly transfer or discharge from the facility.
(b)
Notice of bed-hold policy and readmission
—(1)
Notice before transfer.
Before a facility transfers a resident to a hospital or allows a resident to go on therapeutic leave, the facility management must provide written information to the resident and a family member or legal representative that specifies—
(i) The duration of the facility's bed-hold policy, if any, during which the resident is permitted to return and resume residence in the facility; and
(ii) The facility's policies regarding bed-hold periods, which must be consistent with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, permitting a resident to return.
(2)
Bed-hold notice upon transfer.
At the time of transfer of a resident for hospitalization or therapeutic leave, facility management must provide to the resident and a family member or legal representative written notice which specifies the duration of the bed-hold policy described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3)
Permitting resident to return to facility.
A nursing facility must establish and follow a written policy under which a resident, whose hospitalization or therapeutic leave exceeds the bed-hold period is readmitted to the facility immediately upon the first availability of a bed in a semi-private room, if the resident requires the services provided by the facility.
(c)
Equal access to quality care.
The facility management must establish and maintain identical policies and practices regarding transfer, discharge, and the provision of services for all individuals regardless of source of payment.
(d)
Admissions policy.
The facility management must not require a third party guarantee of payment to the facility as a condition of admission or expedited admission, or continued stay in the facility. However, the facility may require an individual who has legal access to a resident's income or resources available to pay for facility care to sign a contract to pay the facility from the resident's income or resources.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009]
§ 51.90
Resident behavior and facility practices.
(a)
Restraints.
(1) The resident has a right to be free from any chemical or physical restraints imposed for purposes of discipline or convenience. When a restraint is applied or used, the purpose of the restraint is reviewed and is justified as a therapeutic intervention.
(i) Chemical restraint is the inappropriate use of a sedating psychotropic drug to manage or control behavior.
(ii) Physical restraint is any method of physically restricting a person's freedom of movement, physical activity or normal access to his or her body. Bed rails and vest restraints are examples of physical restraints.
(2) The facility management uses a system to achieve a restraint-free environment.
(3) The facility management collects data about the use of restraints.
(4) When alternatives to the use of restraint are ineffective, a restraint must be safely and appropriately used.
(b)
Abuse.
The resident has the right to be free from mental, physical, sexual, and verbal abuse or neglect, corporal punishment, and involuntary seclusion.
(1) Mental abuse includes humiliation, harassment, and threats of punishment or deprivation.
(2) Physical abuse includes hitting, slapping, pinching, or kicking. Also includes controlling behavior through corporal punishment.
(3) Sexual abuse includes sexual harassment, sexual coercion, and sexual assault.
(4) Neglect is any impaired quality of life for an individual because of the absence of minimal services or resources to meet basic needs. Includes withholding or inadequately providing food and hydration (without physician, resident, or surrogate approval), clothing,
medical care, and good hygiene. May also include placing the individual in unsafe or unsupervised conditions.
(5) Involuntary seclusion is a resident's separation from other residents or from the resident's room against his or her will or the will of his or her legal representative.
(c)
Staff treatment of residents.
The facility management must develop and implement written policies and procedures that prohibit mistreatment, neglect, and abuse of residents and misappropriation of resident property.
(1) The facility management must:
(i) Not employ individuals who—
(A) Have been found guilty of abusing, neglecting, or mistreating individuals by a court of law; or
(B) Have had a finding entered into an applicable State registry or with the applicable licensing authority concerning abuse, neglect, mistreatment of individuals or misappropriation of their property; and
(ii) Report any knowledge it has of actions by a court of law against an employee, which would indicate unfitness for service as a nurse aide or other facility staff to the State nurse aide registry or licensing authorities.
(2) The facility management must ensure that all alleged violations involving mistreatment, neglect, or abuse, including injuries of unknown source, and misappropriation of resident property are reported immediately to the administrator of the facility and to other officials in accordance with State law through established procedures.
(3) The facility management must have evidence that all alleged violations are thoroughly investigated, and must prevent further potential abuse while the investigation is in progress.
(4) The results of all investigations must be reported to the administrator or the designated representative and to other officials in accordance with State law within 5 working days of the incident, and appropriate corrective action must be taken if the alleged violation is verified.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009]
§ 51.100
Quality of life.
A facility management must care for its residents in a manner and in an environment that promotes maintenance or enhancement of each resident's quality of life.
(a)
Dignity.
The facility management must promote care for residents in a manner and in an environment that maintains or enhances each resident's dignity and respect in full recognition of his or her individuality.
(b)
Self-determination and participation.
The resident has the right to—
(1) Choose activities, schedules, and health care consistent with his or her interests, assessments, and plans of care;
(2) Interact with members of the community both inside and outside the facility; and
(3) Make choices about aspects of his or her life in the facility that are significant to the resident.
(c)
Resident Council.
The facility management must establish a council of residents that meet at least quarterly. The facility management must document any concerns submitted to the management of the facility by the council.
(d)
Participation in resident and family groups.
(1) A resident has the right to organize and participate in resident groups in the facility;
(2) A resident's family has the right to meet in the facility with the families of other residents in the facility;
(3) The facility management must provide the council and any resident or family group that exists with private space;
(4) Staff or visitors may attend meetings at the group's invitation;
(5) The facility management must provide a designated staff person responsible for providing assistance and responding to written requests that result from group meetings;
(6) The facility management must listen to the views of any resident or family group, including the council established under paragraph (c) of this section, and act upon the concerns of residents, families, and the council regarding policy and operational decisions affecting resident care and life in the facility.
(e)
Participation in other activities.
A resident has the right to participate in social, religious, and community activities that do not interfere with the rights of other residents in the facility. The facility management must arrange for religious counseling by clergy of various faith groups.
(f)
Accommodation of needs.
A resident has the right to—
(1) Reside and receive services in the facility with reasonable accommodation of individual needs and preferences, except when the health or safety of the individual or other residents would be endangered; and
(2) Receive notice before the resident's room or roommate in the facility is changed.
(g)
Patient Activities.
(1) The facility management must provide for an ongoing program of activities designed to meet, in accordance with the comprehensive assessment, the interests and the physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being of each resident.
(2) The activities program must be directed by a qualified professional who is a qualified therapeutic recreation specialist or an activities professional who—
(i) Is licensed or registered, if applicable, by the State in which practicing; and
(ii) Is certified as a therapeutic recreation specialist or as an activities professional by a recognized accrediting body.
(h)
Social Services.
(1) The facility management must provide medically related social services to attain or maintain the highest practicable mental and psychosocial well-being of each resident.
(2) For each 120 beds, a nursing home must employ one or more qualified social workers who work for a total period that equals at least the work time of one full-time employee (FTE). A State home that has more or less than 120 beds must provide qualified social worker services on a proportionate basis (for example, a nursing home with 60 beds must employ one or more qualified social workers who work for a total period equaling at least one-half FTE and a nursing home with 180 beds must employ qualified social workers who work for a total period equaling at least one and one-half FTE).
(3) Qualifications of social worker. A qualified social worker is an individual with—
(i) A bachelor's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council of Social Work Education (Note: A master's degree social worker with experience in long-term care is preferred), and
(ii) A social work license from the State in which the State home is located, if offered by the State, and
(iii) A minimum of one year of supervised social work experience in a health care setting working directly with individuals.
(4) The facility management must have sufficient support staff to meet patients' social services needs.
(5) Facilities for social services must ensure privacy for interviews.
(i)
Environment.
The facility management must provide—
(1) A safe, clean, comfortable, and homelike environment, allowing the resident to use his or her personal belongings to the extent possible;
(2) Housekeeping and maintenance services necessary to maintain a sanitary, orderly, and comfortable interior;
(3) Clean bed and bath linens that are in good condition;
(4) Private closet space in each resident room, as specified in § 51.200(d)(2)(iv) of this part;
(5) Adequate and comfortable lighting levels in all areas;
(6) Comfortable and safe temperature levels. Facilities must maintain a temperature range of 71-81 degrees Fahrenheit; and
(7) For the maintenance of comfortable sound levels.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009]
§ 51.110
Resident assessment.
The facility management must conduct initially, annually and as required by a change in the resident's condition a comprehensive, accurate, standardized, reproducible assessment of each resident's functional capacity.
(a)
Admission orders.
At the time each resident is admitted, the facility management must have physician orders for the resident's immediate care and a medical assessment, including a medical history and physical examination, within a time frame appropriate to the resident's condition, not to exceed 72 hours after admission, except when an examination was performed within five days before admission and the findings were recorded in the medical record on admission.
(b)
Comprehensive assessments.
(1) The facility management must make a comprehensive assessment of a resident's needs:
(i) Using the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Resident Assessment Instrument Minimum Data Set, Version 3.0; and
(ii) Describing the resident's capability to perform daily life functions, strengths, performances, needs as well as significant impairments in functional capacity.
(2)
Frequency.
Assessments must be conducted—
(i) No later than 14 days after the date of admission;
(ii) Promptly after a significant change in the resident's physical, mental, or social condition; and
(iii) In no case less often than once every 12 months.
(3)
Review of assessments.
The nursing facility management must examine each resident no less than once every 3 months, and as appropriate, revise the resident's assessment to assure the continued accuracy of the assessment.
(4)
Use.
The results of the assessment are used to develop, review, and revise the resident's individualized comprehensive plan of care, under paragraph (d) of this section.
(c)
Accuracy of assessments.
(1) Coordination—
(i) Each assessment must be conducted or coordinated with the appropriate participation of health professionals.
(ii) Each assessment must be conducted or coordinated by a registered nurse that signs and certifies the completion of the assessment.
(2) Certification. Each person who completes a portion of the assessment must sign and certify the accuracy of that portion of the assessment.
(d) Submission of assessments. Each assessment (initial, annual, change in condition, and quarterly) using the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Resident Assessment Instrument Minimum Data Set, Version 3.0 must be submitted electronically to VA at the IP address provided by VA to the State within 30 days after completion of the assessment document.
(e)
Comprehensive care plans.
(1) The facility management must develop an individualized comprehensive care plan for each resident that includes measurable objectives and timetables to meet a resident's physical, mental, and psychosocial needs that are identified in the comprehensive assessment. The care plan must describe the following—
(i) The services that are to be furnished to attain or maintain the resident's highest practicable physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being as required under § 51.120; and
(ii) Any services that would otherwise be required under § 51.120 of this part but are not provided due to the resident's exercise of rights under § 51.70, including the right to refuse treatment under § 51.70(b)(4) of this part.
(2) A comprehensive care plan must be—
(i) Developed within 7 calendar days after completion of the comprehensive assessment;
(ii) Prepared by an interdisciplinary team, that includes the primary physician, a registered nurse with responsibility for the resident, and other appropriate staff in disciplines as determined by the resident's needs, and, to the extent practicable, the participation of the resident, the resident's family or the resident's legal representative; and
(iii) Periodically reviewed and revised by a team of qualified persons after each assessment.
(3) The services provided or arranged by the facility must—
(i) Meet professional standards of quality; and
(ii) Be provided by qualified persons in accordance with each resident's written plan of care.
(f)
Discharge summary.
Prior to discharging a resident, the facility management must prepare a discharge summary that includes—
(1) A recapitulation of the resident's stay;
(2) A summary of the resident's status at the time of the discharge to include items in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(3) A post-discharge plan of care that is developed with the participation of the resident and his or her family, which will assist the resident to adjust to his or her new living environment.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009; 77 FR 26184, May 3, 2012; 88 FR 83034, Nov. 28, 2023]
§ 51.120
Quality of care.
Each resident must receive and the facility management must provide the necessary care and services to attain or maintain the highest practicable physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being, in accordance with the comprehensive assessment and plan of care.
(a)
Reporting of Sentinel Events
—(1)
Definition.
A sentinel event is an adverse event that results in the loss of life or limb or permanent loss of function.
(2) Examples of sentinel events are as follows:
(i) Any resident death, paralysis, coma or other major permanent loss of function associated with a medication error; or
(ii) Any suicide of a resident, including suicides following elopement (unauthorized departure) from the facility; or
(iii) Any elopement of a resident from the facility resulting in a death or a major permanent loss of function; or
(iv) Any procedure or clinical intervention, including restraints, that result in death or a major permanent loss of function; or
(v) Assault, homicide or other crime resulting in patient death or major permanent loss of function; or
(vi) A patient fall that results in death or major permanent loss of function as a direct result of the injuries sustained in the fall.
(3) The facility management must report sentinel events to the director of VA medical center of jurisdiction within 24 hours of identification. The VA medical center of jurisdiction must report sentinel events by calling VA Network Director (10N 1-22) and Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care in VA Central Office within 24 hours of notification.
(4) The facility management must establish a mechanism to review and analyze a sentinel event resulting in a written report no later than 10 working days following the event. The purpose of the review and analysis of a sentinel event is to prevent injuries to residents, visitors, and personnel, and to manage those injuries that do occur and to minimize the negative consequences to the injured individuals and facility.
(b)
Activities of daily living.
Based on the comprehensive assessment of a resident, the facility management must ensure that—
(1) A resident's abilities in activities of daily living do not diminish unless circumstances of the individual's clinical condition demonstrate that diminution was unavoidable. This includes the resident's ability to—
(i) Bathe, dress, and groom;
(ii) Transfer and ambulate;
(iii) Toilet;
(iv) Eat; and
(v) Talk or otherwise communicate.
(2) A resident is given the appropriate treatment and services to maintain or improve his or her abilities specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(3) A resident who is unable to carry out activities of daily living receives the necessary services to maintain good nutrition, hydration, grooming, personal and oral hygiene, mobility, and bladder and bowel elimination.
(c)
Vision and hearing.
To ensure that residents receive proper treatment and assistive devices to maintain vision and hearing abilities, the facility must, if necessary, assist the resident—
(1) In making appointments, and
(2) By arranging for transportation to and from the office of a practitioner specializing in the treatment of vision or hearing impairment or the office of a professional specializing in the provision of vision or hearing assistive devices.
(d)
Pressure sores.
Based on the comprehensive assessment of a resident, the facility management must ensure that—
(1) A resident who enters the facility without pressure sores does not develop pressure sores unless the individual's clinical condition demonstrates that they were unavoidable; and
(2) A resident having pressure sores receives necessary treatment and services to promote healing, prevent infection and prevent new sores from developing.
(e)
Urinary and Fecal Incontinence.
Based on the resident's comprehensive assessment, the facility management must ensure that—
(1) A resident who enters the facility without an indwelling catheter is not catheterized unless the resident's clinical condition demonstrates that catheterization was necessary;
(2) A resident who is incontinent of urine receives appropriate treatment and services to prevent urinary tract infections and to restore as much normal bladder function as possible; and
(3) A resident who has persistent fecal incontinence receives appropriate treatment and services to treat reversible causes and to restore as much normal bowel function as possible.
(f)
Range of motion.
Based on the comprehensive assessment of a resident, the facility management must ensure that—
(1) A resident who enters the facility without a limited range of motion does not experience reduction in range of motion unless the resident's clinical condition demonstrates that a reduction in range of motion is unavoidable; and
(2) A resident with a limited range of motion receives appropriate treatment and services to increase range of motion and/or to prevent further decrease in range of motion.
(g)
Mental and Psychosocial functioning.
Based on the comprehensive assessment of a resident, the facility management must ensure that a resident who displays mental or psychosocial adjustment difficulty, receives appropriate treatment and services to correct the assessed problem.
(h)
Enteral Feedings.
Based on the comprehensive assessment of a resident, the facility management must ensure that—
(1) A resident who has been able to adequately eat or take fluids alone or with assistance is not fed by enteral feedings unless the resident's clinical condition demonstrates that use of enteral feedings was unavoidable; and
(2) A resident who is fed by enteral feedings receives the appropriate treatment and services to prevent aspiration pneumonia, diarrhea, vomiting, dehydration, metabolic abnormalities, nasal-pharyngeal ulcers and other skin breakdowns, and to restore, if possible, normal eating skills.
(i)
Accidents.
The facility management must ensure that—
(1) The resident environment remains as free of accident hazards as is possible; and
(2) Each resident receives adequate supervision and assistance devices to prevent accidents.
(j)
Nutrition.
Based on a resident's comprehensive assessment, the facility management must ensure that a resident—
(1) Maintains acceptable parameters of nutritional status, such as body weight and protein levels, unless the resident's clinical condition demonstrates that this is not possible; and
(2) Receives a therapeutic diet when a nutritional deficiency is identified.
(k)
Hydration.
The facility management must provide each resident with sufficient fluid intake to maintain proper hydration and health.
(l)
Special needs.
The facility management must ensure that residents receive proper treatment and care for the following special services:
(1) Injections;
(2) Parenteral and enteral fluids;
(3) Colostomy, ureterostomy, or ileostomy care;
(4) Tracheostomy care;
(5) Tracheal suctioning;
(6) Respiratory care;
(7) Foot care; and
(8) Prostheses.
(m)
Unnecessary drugs
—(1)
General.
Each resident's drug regimen must be free from unnecessary drugs. An unnecessary drug is any drug when used:
(i) In excessive dose (including duplicate drug therapy); or
(ii) For excessive duration; or
(iii) Without adequate monitoring; or
(iv) Without adequate indications for its use; or
(v) In the presence of adverse consequences which indicate the dose should be reduced or discontinued; or
(vi) Any combinations of the reasons above.
(2)
Antipsychotic Drugs.
Based on a comprehensive assessment of a resident, the facility management must ensure that—
(i) Residents who have not used antipsychotic drugs are not given these drugs unless antipsychotic drug therapy is necessary to treat a specific condition as diagnosed and documented in the clinical record; and
(ii) Residents who use antipsychotic drugs receive gradual dose reductions, and behavioral interventions, unless clinically contraindicated, in an effort to discontinue these drugs.
(n)
Medication Errors.
The facility management must ensure that—
(1) Medication errors are identified and reviewed on a timely basis; and
(2) strategies for preventing medication errors and adverse reactions are implemented.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009; 83 FR 61276, Nov. 28, 2018]
§ 51.130
Nursing services.
The facility management must provide an organized nursing service with a sufficient number of qualified nursing personnel to meet the total nursing care needs, as determined by resident assessment and individualized comprehensive plans of care, of all patients within the facility 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
(a) The nursing service must be under the direction of a full-time registered nurse who is currently licensed by the State and has, in writing, administrative authority, responsibility, and accountability for the functions, activities, and training of the nursing services staff.
(b) The facility management must provide registered nurses 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.
(c) The director of nursing service must designate a registered nurse as a supervising nurse for each tour of duty.
(1) Based on the application and results of the case mix and staffing methodology, the director of nursing may serve in a dual role as director and as an onsite-supervising nurse only when the facility has an average daily occupancy of 60 or fewer residents in nursing home.
(2) Based on the application and results of the case mix and staffing methodology, the evening or night supervising nurse may serve in a dual role as supervising nurse as well as provides direct patient care only when the facility has an average daily occupancy of 60 or fewer residents in nursing home.
(d) The facility management must provide nursing services to ensure that there is direct care nurse staffing of no less than 2.5 hours per patient per 24 hours, 7 days per week in the portion of any building providing nursing home care.
(e) Nurse staffing must be based on a staffing methodology that applies case mix and is adequate for meeting the standards of this part.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009]
§ 51.140
Dietary services.
The facility management must provide each resident with a nourishing, palatable, well-balanced diet that meets the daily nutritional and special dietary needs of each resident.
(a)
Staffing.
The facility management must employ a qualified dietitian either full-time, part-time, or on a consultant basis.
(1) If a dietitian is not employed, the facility management must designate a person to serve as the director of food service who receives at least a monthly scheduled consultation from a qualified dietitian.
(2) A qualified dietitian is one who is qualified based upon registration by the Commission on Dietetic Registration of the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
(b)
Sufficient staff.
The facility management must employ sufficient support personnel competent to carry out the functions of the dietary service.
(c)
Menus and nutritional adequacy.
Menus must—
(1) Meet the nutritional needs of residents in accordance with the recommended dietary allowances of the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council, National Academy of Sciences;
(2) Be prepared in advance; and
(3) Be followed.
(d)
Food.
Each resident receives and the facility provides—
(1) Food prepared by methods that conserve nutritive value, flavor, and appearance;
(2) Food that is palatable, attractive, and at the proper temperature;
(3) Food prepared in a form designed to meet individual needs; and
(4) Substitutes offered of similar nutritive value to residents.
(e)
Therapeutic diets.
Therapeutic diets must be prescribed by the primary care physician.
(f)
Frequency of meals.
(1) Each resident receives and the facility provides at least three meals daily, at regular times comparable to normal mealtimes in the community.
(2) There must be no more than 14 hours between a substantial evening meal and the availability of breakfast the following day, except as provided in (f)(4) of this section.
(3) The facility staff must offer snacks at bedtime daily.
(4) When a nourishing snack is provided at bedtime, up to 16 hours may elapse between a substantial evening meal and breakfast the following day.
(g)
Assistive devices.
The facility management must provide special eating equipment and utensils for residents who need them.
(h)
Sanitary conditions.
The facility must—
(1) Procure food from sources approved or considered satisfactory by Federal, State, or local authorities;
(2) Store, prepare, distribute, and serve food under sanitary conditions; and (3) Dispose of garbage and refuse properly.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 83 FR 61276, Nov. 28, 2018]
§ 51.150
Physician services.
A physician must personally approve in writing a recommendation that an individual be admitted to a facility. Each resident must remain under the care of a physician.
(a)
Physician supervision.
The facility management must ensure that—
(1) The medical care of each resident is supervised by a primary care physician;
(2) Each resident's medical record lists the name of the resident's primary physician, and
(3) Another physician supervises the medical care of residents when their primary physician is unavailable.
(b)
Physician visits.
The physician must—
(1) Review the resident's total program of care, including medications and treatments, at each visit required by paragraph (c) of this section;
(2) Write, sign, and date progress notes at each visit; and
(3) Sign and date all orders.
(c)
Frequency of physician visits.
(1) The resident must be seen by the primary physician at least once every 30 days for the first 90 days after admission, and at least once every 60 days thereafter, or more frequently based on the condition of the resident.
(2) A physician visit is considered timely if it occurs not later than 10 days after the date the visit was required.
(3) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(4) of this section, all required physician visits must be made by the physician personally.
(4) At the option of the physician, required visits in the facility after the initial visit may alternate between personal visits by the physician and visits by a physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Availability of physicians for emergency care.
The facility management must provide or arrange for the provision of physician services 24 hours a day, 7 days per week, in case of an emergency.
(e)
Physician delegation of tasks.
(1) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, a primary physician may delegate tasks to:
(i) a certified physician assistant or a certified nurse practitioner, or
(ii) a clinical nurse specialist who—
(A) Is acting within the scope of practice as defined by State law; and
(B) Is under the supervision of the physician.

# Note to paragraph (
e

# ):
An individual with experience in long term care is preferred.
(2) The primary physician may not delegate a task when the regulations specify that the primary physician must perform it personally, or when the delegation is prohibited under State law or by the facility's own policies.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009]
§ 51.160
Specialized rehabilitative services.
(a)
Provision of services.
If specialized rehabilitative services such as but not limited to physical therapy, speech therapy, occupational therapy, and mental health services for mental illness are required in the resident's comprehensive plan of care, facility management must—
(1) Provide the required services; or
(2) Obtain the required services from an outside resource, in accordance with § 51.210(h) of this part, from a provider of specialized rehabilitative services.
(b) Specialized rehabilitative services must be provided under the written order of a physician by qualified personnel.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009]
§ 51.170
Dental services.
(a) A facility must provide or obtain from an outside resource, in accordance with § 51.210(h) of this part, routine and emergency dental services to meet the needs of each resident;
(b) A facility may charge a resident an additional amount for routine and emergency dental services; and
(c) A facility must, if necessary, assist the resident—
(1) In making appointments;
(2) By arranging for transportation to and from the dental services; and
(3) Promptly refer residents with lost or damaged dentures to a dentist.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
§ 51.180
Pharmacy services.
The facility management must provide routine and emergency drugs and biologicals to its residents, or obtain them under an agreement described in § 51.210(h) of this part. The facility management must have a system for disseminating drug information to medical and nursing staff.
(a)
Procedures.
The facility management must provide pharmaceutical services (including procedures that assure the accurate acquiring, receiving, dispensing, and administering of all drugs and biologicals) to meet the needs of each resident.
(b)
Service consultation.
The facility management must employ or obtain the services of a pharmacist licensed in a State in which the facility is located or a VA pharmacist under VA contract who—
(1) Provides consultation on all aspects of the provision of pharmacy services in the facility;
(2) Establishes a system of records of receipt and disposition of all controlled drugs in sufficient detail to enable an accurate reconciliation; and
(3) Determines that drug records are in order and that an account of all controlled drugs is maintained and periodically reconciled.
(c)
Drug regimen review.
(1) The drug regimen of each resident must be reviewed at least once a month by a licensed pharmacist.
(2) The pharmacist must report any irregularities to the primary physician and the director of nursing, and these reports must be acted upon.
(d)
Labeling of drugs and biologicals.
Drugs and biologicals used in the facility management must be labeled in accordance with currently accepted professional principles, and include the appropriate accessory and cautionary instructions, and the expiration date when applicable.
(e)
Storage of drugs and biologicals.
(1) In accordance with State and Federal laws, the facility management must store all drugs and biologicals in locked compartments under proper temperature controls, and permit only authorized personnel to have access to the keys.
(2) The facility management must provide separately locked, permanently affixed compartments for storage of controlled drugs listed in Schedule II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1976 and other drugs subject to abuse.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009]
§ 51.190
Infection control.
The facility management must establish and maintain an infection control program designed to provide a safe, sanitary, and comfortable environment and to help prevent the development and transmission of disease and infection.
(a)
Infection control program.
The facility management must establish an infection control program under which it—
(1) Investigates, controls, and prevents infections in the facility;
(2) Decides what procedures, such as isolation, should be applied to an individual resident; and
(3) Maintains a record of incidents and corrective actions related to infections.
(b)
Preventing spread of infection.
(1) When the infection control program determines that a resident needs isolation to prevent the spread of infection, the facility management must isolate the resident.
(2) The facility management must prohibit employees with a communicable disease or infected skin lesions from engaging in any contact with residents or their environment that would transmit the disease.
(3) The facility management must require staff to wash their hands after each direct resident contact for which hand washing is indicated by accepted professional practice.
(c)
Linens.
Personnel must handle, store, process, and transport linens so as to prevent the spread of infection.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009]
§ 51.200
Physical environment.
The facility management must be designed, constructed, equipped, and maintained to protect the health and safety of residents, personnel and the public.
(a)
Life safety from fire.
The facility must meet the applicable provisions of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code and NFPA 99, Health Care Facilities Code.
(b)
Emergency power.
(1) An emergency electrical power system must be provided to supply power adequate for illumination of all exit signs and lighting for the means of egress, fire alarm and medical gas alarms, emergency communication systems, and generator task illumination.
(2) The system must be the appropriate type essential electrical system in accordance with the applicable provisions of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code and NFPA 99, Health Care Facilities Code.
(3) When electrical life support devices are used, an emergency electrical power system must also be provided for devices in accordance with NFPA 99, Health Care Facilities Code.
(4) The source of power must be an on-site emergency standby generator of sufficient size to serve the connected load or other approved sources in accordance with NFPA 101, Life Safety Code and NFPA 99, Health Care Facilities Code.
(c)
Space and equipment.
Facility management must—
(1) Provide sufficient space and equipment in dining, health services, recreation, and program areas to enable staff to provide residents with needed services as required by these standards and as identified in each resident's plan of care; and
(2) Maintain all essential mechanical, electrical, and patient care equipment in safe operating condition.
(d)
Resident rooms.
Resident rooms must be designed and equipped for adequate nursing care, comfort, and privacy of residents:
(1) Bedrooms must—
(i) Accommodate no more than four residents;
(ii) Measure at least 115 net square feet per resident in multiple resident bedrooms;
(iii) Measure at least 150 net square feet in single resident bedrooms;
(iv) Measure at least 245 net square feet in small double resident bedrooms; and
(v) Measure at least 305 net square feet in large double resident bedrooms used for spinal cord injury residents. It is recommended that the facility have one large double resident bedroom for every 30 resident bedrooms.
(vi) Have direct access to an exit corridor;
(vii) Be designed or equipped to assure full visual privacy for each resident;
(viii) Except in private rooms, each bed must have ceiling suspended curtains, which extend around the bed to provide total visual privacy in combination with adjacent walls and curtains;
(ix) Have at least one window to the outside; and
(x) Have a floor at or above grade level.
(2) The facility management must provide each resident with—
(i) A separate bed of proper size and height for the safety of the resident;
(ii) A clean, comfortable mattress;
(iii) Bedding appropriate to the weather and climate; and
(iv) Functional furniture appropriate to the resident's needs, and individual closet space in the resident's bedroom with clothes racks and shelves accessible to the resident.
(e)
Toilet facilities.
Each resident room must be equipped with or located near toilet and bathing facilities. It is recommended that public toilet facilities be also located near the resident's dining and recreational areas.
(f)
Resident call system.
The nurse's station must be equipped to receive resident calls through a communication system from—
(1) Resident rooms; and
(2) Toilet and bathing facilities.
(g)
Dining and resident activities.
The facility management must provide one or more rooms designated for resident dining and activities. These rooms must—
(1) Be well lighted;
(2) Be well ventilated;
(3) Be adequately furnished; and
(4) Have sufficient space to accommodate all activities.
(h)
Other environmental conditions.
The facility management must provide a safe, functional, sanitary, and comfortable environment for the residents, staff and the public. The facility must—
(1) Establish procedures to ensure that water is available to essential areas when there is a loss of normal water supply;
(2) Have adequate outside ventilation by means of windows, or mechanical ventilation, or a combination of the two;
(3) Equip corridors with firmly secured handrails on each side; and
(4) Maintain an effective pest control program so that the facility is free of pests and rodents.
(i)(1) Incorporation by reference of these materials was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials incorporated by reference are available for inspection at the Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Regulation Policy and Management (02REG), 810 Vermont Avenue NW., Room 1068, Washington, DC 20420, call 202-461-4902, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(2) National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269. (For ordering information, call toll-free 1-800-344-3555).
(i) NFPA 99, Health Care Facilities Code, Including all Gas
Vacuum System Requirements, (2012 Edition).
(ii) NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2012 edition).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009; 76 FR 11340, Mar. 2, 2011; 80 FR 44862, July 28, 2015]
§ 51.210
Administration.
A facility must be administered in a manner that enables it to use its resources effectively and efficiently to attain or maintain the highest practicable physical, mental, and psychosocial well being of each resident.
(a)
Governing body.
(1) The State must have a governing body, or designated person functioning as a governing body, that is legally responsible for establishing and implementing policies regarding the management and operation of the facility; and
(2) The governing body or State official with oversight for the facility appoints the administrator who is—
(i) Licensed by the State where licensing is required; and
(ii) Responsible for operation and management of the facility.
(b)
Disclosure of State agency and individual responsible for oversight of facility.
The State must give written notice to the Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care, VA Headquarters, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20420, at the time of the change, if any of the following change:
(1) The State agency and individual responsible for oversight of a State home facility;
(2) The State home administrator;
(3) The director of nursing services (or other individual in charge of nursing services); and
(4) The State employee responsible for oversight of the State home if a contractor operates the State home.
(c)
Required Information.
The facility management must submit the following to the director of the VA medical center of jurisdiction as part of the application for recognition and thereafter as often as necessary to be current or as specified:
(1) The copy of legal and administrative action establishing the State-operated facility (e.g., State laws);
(2) Site plan of facility and surroundings;
(3) Legal title, lease, or other document establishing right to occupy facility;
(4) Organizational charts and the operational plan of the facility;
(5) The number of the staff by category indicating full-time, part-time and minority designation (annual at time of survey);
(6) The number of nursing home patients who are veterans and non-veterans, the number of veterans who are minorities and the number of non-veterans who are minorities (annual at time of survey);
(7) Annual State Fire Marshall's report;
(8) Annual certification from the responsible State Agency showing compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-112) (VA Form 10-0143A, which is available at any VA medical center and at
http://www.va.gov/vaforms
);
(9) Annual certification for Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (VA Form 10-0143, which is available at any VA medical center and at
http://www.va.gov/vaforms
);
(10) Annual certification regarding lobbying in compliance with Public Law 101-121 (VA Form 10-0144, which is available at any VA medical center and at
http://www.va.gov/vaforms
); and
(11) Annual certification of compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as incorporated in Title 38 CFR 18.1-18.3 (VA Form 10-0144A, which is available at any VA medical center and at
http://www.va.gov/vaforms
).
(d)
Percentage of Veterans.
The percent of the facility residents eligible for VA nursing home care must be at least 75 percent veterans except that the veteran percentage need only be more than 50 percent if the facility was constructed or renovated solely with State funds. All non-veteran residents must be spouses of veterans, or parents any of whose children died while serving in the Armed Forces.
(e)
Management Contract Facility.
If a facility is operated by an entity contracting with the State, the State must assign a State employee to monitor the operations of the facility on a full-time onsite basis.
(f)
Licensure.
The facility and facility management must comply with applicable State and local licensure laws.
(g)
Staff qualifications.
(1) The facility management must employ on a full-time, part-time or consultant basis those professionals necessary to carry out the provisions of these requirements.
(2) Professional staff must be licensed, certified, or registered in accordance with applicable State laws.
(h)
Use of outside resources.
(1) If the facility does not employ a qualified professional person to furnish a specific service to be provided by the facility, the facility management must have that service furnished to residents by a person or agency outside the facility under a written agreement described in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2) Agreements pertaining to services furnished by outside resources must specify in writing that the facility management assumes responsibility for—
(i) Obtaining services that meet professional standards and principles that apply to professionals providing services in such a facility; and
(ii) The timeliness of the services.
(3) If a veteran requires health care that the State home is not required to provide under this part, the State home may assist the veteran in obtaining that care from sources outside the State home, including the Veterans Health Administration. If VA is contacted about providing such care, VA will determine the best option for obtaining the needed services and will notify the veteran or the authorized representative of the veteran.
(i)
Medical director.
(1) The facility management must designate a primary care physician to serve as medical director.
(2) The medical director is responsible for—
(i) Participating in establishing policies, procedures, and guidelines to ensure adequate, comprehensive services;
(ii) Directing and coordinating medical care in the facility;
(iii) Helping to arrange for continuous physician coverage to handle medical emergencies;
(iv) Reviewing the credentialing and privileging process;
(v) Participating in managing the environment by reviewing and evaluating incident reports or summaries of incident reports, identifying hazards to health and safety, and making recommendations to the administrator; and
(vi) Monitoring employees' health status and advising the administrator on employee-health policies.
(j)
Credentialing and Privileging.
Credentialing is the process of obtaining, verifying, and assessing the qualifications of a health care practitioner, which may include physicians, podiatrists, dentists, psychologists, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, licensed nurses to provide patient care services in or for a health care organization. Privileging is the process whereby a specific scope and content of patient care services are authorized for a health care practitioner by the facility management, based on evaluation of the individual's credentials and performance.
(1) The facility management must uniformly apply credentialing criteria to licensed practitioners applying to provide resident care or treatment under the facility's care.
(2) The facility management must verify and uniformly apply the following core criteria: current licensure; current certification, if applicable, relevant education, training, and experience; current competence; and a statement that the individual is able to perform the services he or she is applying to provide.
(3) The facility management must decide whether to authorize the independent practitioner to provide resident care or treatment, and each credentials file must indicate that these criteria are uniformly and individually applied.
(4) The facility management must maintain documentation of current credentials for each licensed independent practitioner practicing within the facility.
(5) When reappointing a licensed independent practitioner, the facility management must review the individual's record of experience.
(6) The facility management systematically must assess whether individuals with clinical privileges act within the scope of privileges granted.
(k)
Required training of nursing aides.
(1) Nurse aide means any individual providing nursing or nursing-related services to residents in a facility who is not a licensed health professional, a registered dietitian, or a volunteer who provide such services without pay.
(2) The facility management must not use any individual working in the facility as a nurse aide whether permanent or not unless:
(i) That individual is competent to provide nursing and nursing related services; and
(ii) That individual has completed a training and competency evaluation program, or a competency evaluation program approved by the State.
(3)
Registry verification.
Before allowing an individual to serve as a nurse aide, facility management must receive registry verification that the individual has met competency evaluation requirements unless the individual can prove that he or she has recently successfully completed a training and competency evaluation program or competency evaluation program approved by the State and has not yet been included in the registry. Facilities must follow up to ensure that such an individual actually becomes registered.
(4)
Multi-State registry verification.
Before allowing an individual to serve as a nurse aide, facility management must seek information from every State registry established under HHS regulations at 42 CFR 483.156 which the facility believes will include information on the individual.
(5)
Required retraining.
If, since an individual's most recent completion of a training and competency evaluation program, there has been a continuous period of 24 consecutive months during none of which the individual provided nursing or nursing-related services for monetary compensation, the individual must complete a new training and competency evaluation program or a new competency evaluation program.
(6)
Regular in-service education.
The facility management must complete a performance review of every nurse aide at least once every 12 months, and
must provide regular in-service education based on the outcome of these reviews. The in-service training must—
(i) Be sufficient to ensure the continuing competence of nurse aides, but must be no less than 12 hours per year;
(ii) Address areas of weakness as determined in nurse aides' performance reviews and may address the special needs of residents as determined by the facility staff; and
(iii) For nurse aides providing services to individuals with cognitive impairments, also address the care of the cognitively impaired.
(l)
Proficiency of Nurse aides.
The facility management must ensure that nurse aides are able to demonstrate competency in skills and techniques necessary to care for residents' needs, as identified through resident assessments, and described in the plan of care.
(m)
Level B Requirement Laboratory services.
(1) The facility management must provide or obtain laboratory services to meet the needs of its residents. The facility is responsible for the quality and timeliness of the services.
(i) If the facility provides its own laboratory services, the services must meet all applicable certification standards, statutes, and regulations for laboratory services.
(ii) If the facility provides blood bank and transfusion services, it must meet all applicable certification standards, statutes, and regulations.
(iii) If the laboratory chooses to refer specimens for testing to another laboratory, the referral laboratory must be certified in the appropriate specialties and subspecialties of services and meet certification standards, statutes, and regulations.
(iv) The laboratory performing the testing must have a current, valid CLIA number (Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988). The facility management must provide VA surveyors with the CLIA number and a copy of the results of the last CLIA inspection.
(v) Such services must be available to the resident seven days a week, 24 hours a day.
(2) The facility management must—
(i) Provide or obtain laboratory services only when ordered by the primary physician;
(ii) Promptly notify the primary physician of the findings;
(iii) Assist the resident in making transportation arrangements to and from the source of service, if the resident needs assistance; and
(iv) File in the resident's clinical record laboratory reports that are dated and contain the name and address of the testing laboratory.
(n)
Radiology and other diagnostic services.
(1) The facility management must provide or obtain radiology and other diagnostic services to meet the needs of its residents. The facility is responsible for the quality and timeliness of the services.
(i) If the facility provides its own diagnostic services, the services must meet all applicable certification standards, statutes, and regulations.
(ii) If the facility does not provide its own diagnostic services, it must have an agreement to obtain these services. The services must meet all applicable certification standards, statutes, and regulations.
(iii) Radiologic and other diagnostic services must be available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
(2) The facility must—
(i) Provide or obtain radiology and other diagnostic services when ordered by the primary physician;
(ii) Promptly notify the primary physician of the findings;
(iii) Assist the resident in making transportation arrangements to and from the source of service, if the resident needs assistance; and
(iv) File in the resident's clinical record signed and dated reports of x-ray and other diagnostic services.
(o)
Clinical records.
(1) The facility management must maintain clinical records on each resident in accordance with accepted professional standards and practices that are—
(i) Complete;
(ii) Accurately documented;
(iii) Readily accessible; and
(iv) Systematically organized.
(2) Clinical records must be retained for—
(i) The period of time required by State law; or
(ii) Five years from the date of discharge when there is no requirement in State law.
(3) The facility management must safeguard clinical record information against loss, destruction, or unauthorized use;
(4) The facility management must keep confidential all information contained in the resident's records, regardless of the form or storage method of the records, except when release is required by—
(i) Transfer to another health care institution;
(ii) Law;
(iii) Third party payment contract;
(iv) The resident or;
(v) The resident's authorized agent or representative.
(5) The clinical record must contain—
(i) Sufficient information to identify the resident;
(ii) A record of the resident's assessments;
(iii) The plan of care and services provided;
(iv) The results of any pre-admission screening conducted by the State; and
(v) Progress notes.
(p)
Quality assessment and assurance.
(1) Facility management must maintain a quality assessment and assurance committee consisting of—
(i) The director of nursing services;
(ii) A primary physician designated by the facility; and
(iii) At least 3 other members of the facility's staff.
(2) The quality assessment and assurance committee—
(i) Meets at least quarterly to identify issues with respect to which quality assessment and assurance activities are necessary; and
(ii) Develops and implements appropriate plans of action to correct identified quality deficiencies; and
(3) Identified quality deficiencies are corrected within an established time period.
(4) The VA Under Secretary for Health may not require disclosure of the records of such committee unless such disclosure is related to the compliance with requirements of this section.
(q)
Disaster and emergency preparedness.
(1) The facility management must have detailed written plans and procedures to meet all potential emergencies and disasters, such as fire, severe weather, and missing residents.
(2) The facility management must train all employees in emergency procedures when they begin to work in the facility, periodically review the procedures with existing staff, and carry out unannounced staff drills using those procedures.
(r)
Transfer agreement.
(1) The facility management must have in effect a written transfer agreement with one or more hospitals that reasonably assures that—
(i) Residents will be transferred from the nursing home to the hospital, and ensured of timely admission to the hospital when transfer is medically appropriate as determined by the primary physician; and
(ii) Medical and other information needed for care and treatment of residents, and, when the transferring facility deems it appropriate, for determining whether such residents can be adequately cared for in a less expensive setting than either the nursing home or the hospital, will be exchanged between the institutions.
(2) The facility is considered to have a transfer agreement in effect if the facility has an agreement with a hospital sufficiently close to the facility to make transfer feasible.
(s)
Compliance with Federal, State, and local laws and professional standards.
The facility management must operate and provide services in compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws, regulations, and codes, and with accepted professional standards and principles that apply to professionals providing services in such a facility. This includes the Single Audit Act of 1984 (Title 31, Section 7501
et seq.
) and the Cash Management Improvement Acts of 1990 and 1992 (Public Laws 101-453 and 102-589, see 31 USC 3335, 3718, 3720A, 6501, 6503)
(t)
Relationship to other Federal regulations.
In addition to compliance with the regulations set forth in this subpart, facilities are obliged to meet the applicable provisions of other Federal laws and regulations, including but not limited to those pertaining to nondiscrimination on the basis of race,
color, national origin, handicap, or age (38 CFR part 18); protection of human subjects of research (45 CFR part 46), section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1993, Public Law 93-112; Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, 38 CFR part 48; section 319 of Public Law 101-121; Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 38 CFR 18.1-18.3. Although these regulations are not in themselves considered requirements under this part, their violation may result in the termination or suspension of, or the refusal to grant or continue payment with Federal funds.
(u)
Intermingling.
A building housing a facility recognized as a State home for providing nursing home care may only provide nursing home care in the areas of the building recognized as a State home for providing nursing home care.
(v)
VA Management of State Veterans Homes.
Except as specifically provided by statute or regulations, VA employees have no authority regarding the management or control of State homes providing nursing home care.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1741-1743, 8135; Pub. L. 111-246)
[65 FR 968, Jan. 6, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 30243, May 31, 2007; 74 FR 19434, Apr. 29, 2009; 76 FR 52275, Aug. 22, 2011; 78 FR 51675, Aug. 21, 2013; 83 FR 61276, Nov. 28, 2018]

# Subpart E—Standards Applicable to the Payment of Per Diem for Domiciliary Care

# Source:
83 FR 61277, Nov. 28, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.300
Resident rights and behavior; State home practices; quality of life.
The State home must protect and promote the rights and quality of life of each resident receiving domiciliary care, and otherwise comply with the requirements in § 51.70, except § 51.70(b)(9), (h)(1), and (m); § 51.80, except § 51.80(a)(2) and (4) and (b); § 51.90; and § 51.100, except § 51.100(g)(2), (h), and (i)(5) through (7). The State Home must have a written procedure for admissions, discharges, and transfers. For purposes of this section, the terms “nursing home” and “nursing facility” or “facility” in the applicable provisions of the cited sections apply to a domiciliary.
(a)
Notice of rights and services—notification of changes.
(1) Facility management must immediately inform the resident and consult with the primary care physician when there is
(i) An accident involving the resident that results in injury and has the potential for requiring physician intervention;
(ii) A significant change in the resident's physical, mental, or psychosocial status (
i.e.,
a deterioration in health, mental, or psychosocial status in either life-threatening conditions or clinical complications);
(iii) A need to alter treatment significantly (
i.e.,
a need to discontinue an existing form of treatment due to adverse consequences, or to commence a new form of treatment); or
(iv) A decision to transfer or discharge the resident from the facility as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) The facility management must also promptly notify the resident when there is
(i) A change in room or roommate assignment as specified in § 51.100(f)(2); or
(ii) A change in resident rights under Federal or State law or regulations as specified in § 51.70(b)(1).
(3) The facility management must record and periodically update the address and phone number of the resident's legal representative or interested family member, but the resident has the right to decide whether to have the State home notify his or her legal representative or interested family member of changes.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Married couples.
The resident has the right, if space is available within the existing facility, to share a room with his or her spouse when married residents live in the same facility and both spouses consent to the arrangement. If the State home determines existing space is not available to allow married residents to share rooms, the State home will make accommodations for the privacy of married residents.
(d)
Transfer and discharge
—(1)
Definition:
Transfer and discharge includes movement of a resident to a bed outside of the facility whether that bed is in the same physical plant or not. Transfer and discharge does not refer to movement of a resident to a bed within the same facility.
(2)
Transfer and discharge requirements.
The facility management must permit each resident to remain in the facility, and not transfer or discharge the resident from the facility unless
(i) The transfer or discharge is necessary for the resident's welfare, including because the domiciliary resident's health has improved sufficiently so the resident no longer needs the services provided by the domiciliary;
(ii) The resident is in need of a higher level of long term or acute care;
(iii) The safety of individuals in the facility is endangered;
(iv) The health of individuals in the facility would otherwise be endangered;
(v) The resident has failed, after reasonable and appropriate notice, to pay for a stay at the facility;
(vi) The domiciliary ceases to operate; or
(vii) The resident ceases to meet any of the eligibility criteria of § 51.51.
(3)
Documentation.
When the facility transfers or discharges a resident under any of the circumstances specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section, the primary care physician must document the transfer and circumstances in the resident's clinical record.
(4)
Notice before transfer.
Before a facility transfers or discharges a resident, the facility must
(i) Notify the resident of the transfer or discharge and the reasons for the move in writing and in a language and manner he or she understands. The resident has the right to decide whether to have the State home notify his or her legal representative or interested family member of changes.
(ii) Record the reasons in the resident's clinical record; and
(iii) Include in the notice the items described in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.
(5)
Timing of the notice.
(i) The notice of transfer or discharge required by paragraph (d)(4) of this section must be made by the facility at least 30 calendar days before the resident is transferred or discharged, except when specified in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section,
(ii) Notice may be made as soon as practicable before transfer or discharge when
(A) The safety of individuals in the facility would be endangered;
(B) The health of individuals in the facility would be otherwise endangered;
(C) The resident's health improves sufficiently so the resident no longer needs the services provided by the domiciliary; or
(D) The resident's needs cannot be met in the domiciliary.
(6)
Contents of the notice.
The written notice specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section must include the following:
(i) The reason for transfer or discharge;
(ii) The effective date of transfer or discharge;
(iii) The location to which the resident is transferred or discharged;
(iv) A statement that the resident has the right to appeal the action to the State official designated by the State; and
(v) The name, address and telephone number of the State long term care ombudsman.
(7)
Orientation for transfer or discharge.
The facility management must provide sufficient preparation and orientation to residents to ensure safe and orderly transfer or discharge from the facility.
(e)
Notice of bed-hold policy and readmission—notice before transfer.
The State home must have a written bed-hold policy, including criteria for return to the facility. The facility management must provide written information to the resident about the State home bed-hold policy upon enrollment, annually thereafter, and before a State home transfers a resident to a hospital. A Resident has the right to decide whether to have the State home notify his or her legal representative or interested family member of transfers.
(f)
Resident activities.
(1) The facility management must provide for an ongoing program of activities designed to
meet, in accordance with the comprehensive assessment, the interests and the physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being of each resident.
(2) The activities program must be directed by a qualified coordinator.
(g)
Social services.
(1) The State home must provide social work services to meet the social and emotional needs of residents to attain or maintain the highest practicable mental and psychosocial well-being of each resident.
(2) The State home must have a sufficient number of social workers to meet residents' needs.
(3) The State home must have a written policy on how it determines qualifications of social workers. It is highly recommended, but not required, that a qualified social worker is an individual with
(i) A bachelor's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council of Social Work Education (
Note:
A master's degree social worker with experience in long-term care is preferred), and
(ii) A social work license from the State in which the State home is located, if offered by the State, and
(iii) A minimum of one year of supervised social work experience in a health care setting working directly with individuals.
(4) The facility management must have sufficient support staff to meet patients' social services needs.
(5) Facilities for social services must ensure privacy for interviews.
(h)
Environment.
The facility management must provide
(1) A safe, clean, comfortable, and homelike environment, allowing the resident to use his or her personal belongings to the extent possible;
(2) Housekeeping and maintenance services necessary to maintain a sanitary, orderly, and comfortable interior;
(3) Clean bed and bath linens that are in good condition; and
(4) Private closet space in each resident's room, as specified in § 51.200(d)(2)(iv).
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
[83 FR 61277, Nov. 28, 2018, as amended at 88 FR 83034, Nov. 28, 2023; 89 FR 86250, Oct. 30, 2024]
§ 51.310
Resident admission, assessment, care plan, and discharge.
The State home must conduct accurate, written, medical and comprehensive assessments of each resident's medical and functional capacity upon admission, annually, and as required by a change in the resident's condition. The comprehensive assessment will use information from the medical assessment, and both assessments will inform the comprehensive care plan. The State home must have a written policy to determine how to coordinate and complete the comprehensive assessment process, including how it will review, and revise the comprehensive assessment in implementing the comprehensive care plan. The State home must review comprehensive assessments annually, and promptly after every significant change in the resident's physical, mental, or social condition.
(a)
Admission orders and medical assessment.
At the time each resident is admitted, the State home must have physician orders for the resident's immediate care. A medical assessment, including a medical history and physical examination, must be performed by a physician, or other health care provider qualified under State law, and recorded in the medical record no later than 7 calendar days after admission, unless one was performed no earlier than 5 calendar days before admission and the findings were recorded in the medical record. The medical assessment will be part of the comprehensive assessment.
(b)
Comprehensive assessments.
(1) The state home must complete a comprehensive assessment of each resident no later than 14 calendar days after admission, annually, and as required by a change in the resident's condition.
(2) Each comprehensive assessment must be conducted or coordinated by a registered nurse with the participation of appropriate healthcare professionals, including at least one physician, the registered nurse, and one social worker. The registered nurse must sign and certify the assessment. The comprehensive assessment is to determine the care, treatment, and services that will meet the resident's initial and continuing needs. It is an objective evaluation of a resident's health and functional status, describing the resident's capabilities and impairments in performing activities of daily living, strengths, and needs. The assessment gathers information through collection of data, observation, and examination.
(c)
Comprehensive care plans.
(1) The State home must develop a comprehensive care plan for each resident based on the comprehensive assessment, and develop, review, and revise the comprehensive care plan following each comprehensive assessment. The comprehensive care plan must include measurable objectives and timetables to address a resident's emotional, behavioral, social, and physical needs, with emphasis on assisting each patient to achieve and maintain an optimal level of self-care and independence. The comprehensive care plan must describe the following, as appropriate to the resident's circumstances:
(i) The services that are to be furnished to support the resident's highest practicable emotional, behavioral, social rehabilitation, and physical well-being;
(ii) The specific work the resident agrees to do to share in the maintenance and operation of the State home upon consultation with the interdisciplinary team, and whether that work is paid or unpaid; and
(iii) Any services that would otherwise be required under § 51.350 but are not provided due to the resident's exercise of rights under § 51.70, including the right in § 51.70(b)(4) to refuse treatment.
(2) A comprehensive care plan must be:
(i) Developed no later than 21 calendar days after admission; and
(ii) Prepared by an interdisciplinary team of health professionals that may include the primary care physician or a Licensed Independent Practitioner (or designated Physician's Assistant or Nurse Practitioner), a social worker, and a registered nurse who have responsibility for the resident, and other staff in appropriate disciplines as determined by the resident's needs, and, to the extent practicable, the participation of the resident and the resident's family (subject to the consent of the resident) or the resident's legal representative, if appropriate;
(iii) Reviewed periodically and revised consistent with the most recent comprehensive assessment by a team of qualified persons no less often than semi-annually; and
(iv) Revised promptly after a comprehensive assessment reveals a significant change in the resident's condition.
(3) The services provided by the facility must
(i) Meet professional standards of quality; and
(ii) Be provided by qualified persons in accordance with each resident's written comprehensive care plan.
(d)
Discharge summary.
(1) Prior to discharging a resident, the State home must prepare a discharge summary that includes
(i) A summary of the resident's stay, the resident's status at the time of the discharge, and the resident's progress on the comprehensive care plan in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and
(ii) A post-discharge comprehensive care plan that is developed with the participation of the resident.
(2) A resident has the right to decide if he or she would like to involve his or her legal representative or interested family member in development of a post-discharge plan.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.320
Quality of care.
The State home must provide each resident with the care described in this subpart in accordance with the assessment and comprehensive care plan.
(a)
Reporting of sentinel events.
(1) A sentinel event is an adverse event that
results in the loss of life or limb or permanent loss of function.
(2) Examples of sentinel events are as follows:
(i) Any resident death, paralysis, coma or other major permanent loss of function associated with a medication error;
(ii) Any suicide of a resident;
(iii) Assault, homicide or other crime resulting in resident death or major permanent loss of function; or
(iv) A resident fall that results in death or major permanent loss of function as a direct result of the injuries sustained in the fall.
(3) The State home must report sentinel events to the Director no later than 24 hours after identification. The VA medical center of jurisdiction must report sentinel events by notifying the VA Network Director (10N1-10N22) and the Director, Office of Geriatrics and Extended Care—Operations (10NC4) no later than 24 hours after notification.
(4) The State home must establish a mechanism to review and analyze a sentinel event resulting in a written report to be submitted to the VA Medical Center of jurisdiction no later than 10 working days following the event. The purpose of the review and analysis of a sentinel event is to prevent injuries to residents, visitors, and personnel, and to manage those injuries that do occur and to minimize the negative consequences to the injured individuals and the State home.
(b)
Activities of daily living.
Based on the comprehensive assessment of a resident, the State home must ensure that a resident's abilities in activities of daily living do not diminish unless circumstances of the individual's clinical condition demonstrate that diminution was unavoidable, and the resident is given appropriate treatment and services to maintain or improve his activities of daily living. This includes the resident's ability to:
(1) Bathe, dress, and groom;
(2) Transfer and ambulate;
(3) Toilet;
(4) Eat; and
(5) Talk or otherwise communicate.
(c)
Vision and hearing.
To ensure that residents receive proper treatment and assistive devices to maintain vision and hearing, the State home must, if necessary, assist the resident:
(1) In making appointments; and
(2) By arranging for transportation to and from the office of a practitioner specializing in the treatment of vision or hearing impairment or the office of a professional specializing in the provision of vision or hearing assistive devices.
(d)
Mental and psychosocial functioning.
Based on the comprehensive assessment of a resident, the State home must assist a resident who displays mental or psychosocial adjustment difficulty obtain appropriate treatment and services to correct the assessed problem.
(e)
Accidents.
The State home must ensure that:
(1) The resident environment remains as free of accident hazards as possible; and
(2) Each resident receives adequate supervision and assistive devices to prevent accidents.
(f)
Nutrition.
The State home must follow § 51.120(j) regarding nutrition in providing domiciliary care.
(g)
Special needs.
The State home must provide residents with the following services, if needed:
(1) Injections;
(2) Colostomy, ureterostomy, or ileostomy care;
(3) Respiratory care;
(4) Foot care; and
(5) Non-customized or non-individualized prosthetic devices.
(h)
Unnecessary drugs.
The State home must ensure that the standards set forth in § 51.120(m) regarding unnecessary drugs are followed in providing domiciliary care.
(i)
Medication errors.
The State home must ensure that the standards set forth in § 51.120(n) regarding medication errors are followed in providing domiciliary care.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.330
Nursing care.
The State home must provide an organized nursing service with a sufficient number of qualified nursing personnel to meet the total nursing care
needs of all residents within the facility, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, as determined by their comprehensive assessments and their comprehensive care plans. The nursing service must be under the direction of a full-time registered nurse who is currently licensed by the State and has, in writing, administrative authority, responsibility, and accountability for the functions, activities, and training of the nursing service's staff.
§ 51.340
Physician and other licensed medical practitioner services.
The State home must provide its residents the primary care necessary to enable them to attain or maintain the highest practicable physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being. When a resident needs care other than the State home is required to provide under this subpart, the State home is responsible to assist the resident to obtain that care. The State home must ensure that a physician personally approves in writing a recommendation that an individual be admitted to a domiciliary. Each resident must remain at all times under the care of a licensed medical practitioner assigned by the State home. The name of the practitioner will be listed in the resident's medical record. The State home must ensure that all of the following conditions in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section are met:
(a)
Supervision of medical practitioners.
Any licensed medical practitioner who is not a physician may provide medical care to a resident within the practitioner's scope of practice without physician supervision when permitted by State law.
(b)
Availability of medical practitioners.
If the resident's assigned licensed medical practitioner is unavailable, another licensed medical practitioner must be available to provide care for that resident.
(c)
Visits.
The primary care physician or other licensed medical practitioner, for each visit required by paragraph (d) of this section, must
(1) Review the resident's total program of care, including medications and treatments;
(2) Write, sign, and date progress notes; and
(3) Sign and date all orders.
(d)
Frequency of visits.
The primary care physician or other licensed medical practitioner must conduct an in-person medical assessment of the resident at least once a calendar year, or more frequently based on the resident's condition.
(e)
Availability of emergency care.
The State home must assist residents in obtaining emergency care.
§ 51.350
Provision of certain specialized services and environmental requirements.
The State home domiciliary care programs must comply with the requirements of § 51.140, except § 51.140(f)(2) through (4) concerning dietary services; § 51.170 concerning dental services; § 51.180, except § 51.180(c) concerning pharmacy services; § 51.190 concerning infection control; and § 51.200, except § 51.200(a), (b), (d)(1)(ii) through (x), (f), and (h)(3) concerning the physical environment. For purposes of this section, the references to “facility” in the cited sections also refer to a domiciliary.
(a)
Dietary services.
(1) There must be no more than 14 hours between a substantial evening meal and the availability of breakfast the following day, except as provided in (a)(3) of this section.
(2) The facility staff must offer snacks at bedtime daily.
(3) Sixteen hours may elapse between a substantial evening meal and breakfast the following day when a nourishing snack is offered at bedtime.
(b)
Pharmacy services.
(1) The drug regimen of each resident must be reviewed at least once every six months by a licensed pharmacist.
(2) The pharmacist must report any irregularities to the primary care physician and the director of nursing, and these reports must be acted upon.
(c)
Life safety from fire.
The facility must meet the applicable requirements of the National Fire Protection Association's NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, as incorporated by reference in § 51.200.
(d)
Privacy.
The facility must provide the means for visual privacy for each resident.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.390
Administration.
The State home must follow § 51.210 regarding administration in providing domiciliary care. For purposes of this section, the references in the cited section to nursing home and nursing home care refer to a domiciliary and domiciliary care.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)

# Subpart F—Standards Applicable to the Payment of per Diem for Adult Day Health Care

# Source:
83 FR 61280, Nov. 28, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 51.400
Participant rights.
The State home must protect and promote the rights of a participant in an adult day health care program, including the rights set forth in § 51.70, except for the right set forth in § 51.70(m). For purposes of this section, the references to resident in the cited section also refer to a participant in this section.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.405
Participant and family caregiver responsibilities.
The State home must post a written statement of participant and family caregiver responsibilities in a place where participants in the adult day health care program and their families will see it and must provide a copy to the participant and caregiver at or before the time of the intake screening. The statement of responsibilities must include the following:
(a) Treat personnel with respect and courtesy;
(b) Communicate with staff to develop a relationship of trust;
(c) Make appropriate choices and seek appropriate care;
(d) Ask questions and confirm your understanding of instructions;
(e) Share opinions, concerns, and complaints with the program director;
(f) Communicate any changes in the participant's condition;
(g) Communicate to the program director about medications and remedies used by the participant;
(h) Let the program director know if the participant decides not to follow any instructions or treatment; and
(i) Communicate with the adult day health care staff if the participant is unable to attend adult day health care.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.410
Transfer and discharge.
(a)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, the term “transfer or discharge” includes movement of a participant to a program outside of the adult day health care program whether or not the program of care is in the same facility.
(b)
Transfer and discharge requirements.
At the time of intake screening, the State home must discuss the possible reasons for transfer or discharge with the participant and, to the extent practicable and appropriate, with family members (subject to the consent of the participant) or the participant's legal representatives. In the case of a transfer and discharge to a hospital, the transfer and discharge must be to the hospital closest to the adult day health care facility that can provide the necessary care. The State home must permit each participant to remain in the program of care, and not transfer or discharge the participant from the program of care unless:
(1) The transfer and discharge is necessary for the participant's welfare and the participant's needs cannot be met in the adult day health care setting;
(2) The transfer and discharge is appropriate because the participant's health has improved sufficiently so that the participant no longer needs
the services provided in the adult day health care program;
(3) The safety of individuals in the facility is endangered;
(4) The health of individuals in the facility would otherwise be endangered;
(5) The participant has failed, after reasonable and appropriate notice, to pay for participation in the adult day health care program; or
(6) The adult day health care program ceases to operate.
(c)
Notice before transfer or discharge.
Before an adult day health care program undertakes the transfer or discharge of a participant, the State home must:
(1) Notify the resident of the transfer or discharge and the reasons for the move in writing and in a language and manner he or she understands. The resident has the right to decide whether to have the State home notify his or her legal representative or interested family member of changes;
(2) Record the reasons in the participant's clinical record; and
(3) Include in the notice the items described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(d)
Timing of the notice.
(1) The notice of transfer or discharge required under paragraph (c) of this section must be made by the State home at least 30 calendar days before the participant is given a transfer or discharge, except when specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) Notice may be made as soon as practicable before a transfer or discharge when
(i) The safety of individuals in the facility would be endangered;
(ii) The health of individuals in the facility would be otherwise endangered;
(iii) The participant's health improves sufficiently that the participant no longer needs the services provided by the adult day health care program of care; or
(iv) The participant's needs cannot be met in the adult day health care program of care.
(e)
Contents of the notice.
The written notice specified in paragraph (c) of this section must include the following:
(1) The reason for the transfer or discharge;
(2) The effective date of the transfer or discharge;
(3) The location to which the participant is taken in accordance with the transfer or discharge, if any;
(4) A statement that the participant has the right to appeal the action to the State official responsible for the oversight of State home programs; and
(5) The name, address and telephone number of the first listed of the following that exists in the State:
(i) The State long-term care ombudsman, if the long-term care ombudsman serves adult day health care facilities; or
(ii) Any State ombudsman or advocate who serves adult day health care participants; or
(iii) The State agency responsible for oversight of State adult day care facilities.
(f)
Orientation for transfer and discharge.
The State home must provide sufficient preparation and orientation to participants to ensure safe and orderly transfer or discharge from the State home.
(g)
Written policy.
The State home must have in effect written transfer and discharge procedures that reasonably ensure that:
(1) Participants will be given a transfer or discharge from the adult day health care program to the hospital when transfer or discharge is medically appropriate as determined by a physician; and
(2) Medical and other information needed for care and treatment of participants will be exchanged between the facility and the hospital.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.411
Program practices.
(a)
Equal access to quality care.
The State home must establish and maintain identical policies and practices regarding transfer and discharge under § 51.410 and the provision of services for all participants regardless of the source of payment.
(b)
Admission policy.
The State home must not require a third-party guarantee of payment as a condition of admission or expedited admission, or continued admission in the program of
care. However, the State home may require a participant or an individual who has legal access to a participant's income or resources to pay for the care from the participant's income or resources, when available.
(c)
Hours of operation.
Each adult day health care program must provide at least 8 hours of operation 5 days a week. The hours of operation must be flexible and responsive to caregiver needs.
§ 51.415
Restraints, abuse, and staff treatment of participants.
The State home must meet the requirements regarding the use of restraints, abuse, and other matters concerning staff treatment of participants set forth in § 51.90. For purposes of this section, the references in the cited section to resident refer to a participant in this section.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.420
Quality of life.
The State home must provide an environment that supports the quality of life of each participant by maximizing the participant's potential strengths and skills.(a)
Dignity.
The State home must promote care for participants in a manner and in an environment that maintains or enhances each participant's dignity and respect in full recognition of his or her individuality.
(b)
Self-determination and participation.
The State home must ensure that the participant has the right to:
(1) Choose activities, schedules, and health care consistent with his or her interests, assessments, and plans of care;
(2) Interact with members of the community both inside and outside the facility; and
(3) Make choices about aspects of his or her life in the facility that are significant to the participant.
(c)
Participant and family concerns.
The State home must document any concerns submitted to the management of the program by participants or their family members.
(1) A participant's family has the right to meet with families of other participants in the program.
(2) Staff or visitors may attend meetings of participant or family groups at the group's invitation.
(3) The State home must respond to written requests that result from group meetings.
(4) The State home must listen to the views of any participant or family group and act upon the concerns of participants and families regarding policy and operational decisions affecting participant care in the program.
(d)
Participation in other activities.
The State home must ensure that a participant has the right to participate in social, religious, and community activities that do not interfere with the rights of other participants in the program.
(e)
Therapeutic participant activities.
(1) The State home must provide for an ongoing program of activities designed to meet, in accordance with the comprehensive assessment, the interests and the physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being of each participant.
(2) The activities program must be directed by a qualified professional who is a qualified therapeutic recreation specialist or an activities professional who:
(i) Is licensed, if applicable, by the State in which practicing; and
(ii) Is certified as a therapeutic recreation specialist or an activities professional by a recognized certifying body.
(3) A critical role of adult day health care is to build relationships and create a culture that supports, involves, and validates the participant. Therapeutic activity refers to that supportive culture and is a significant aspect of the individualized comprehensive care plan. A participant's activity includes everything the individual experiences during the day, not just arranged events. As part of effective therapeutic activity, the adult day health care program must:
(i) Provide direction and support for participants, including breaking down activities into small, discrete steps or behaviors, if needed by a participant;
(ii) Have alternative programming available for any participant unable or
unwilling to take part in group activity;
(iii) Design activities that promote personal growth and enhance the self-image and/or improve or maintain the functioning level of participants to the extent possible;
(iv) Provide opportunities for a variety of involvements (social, intellectual, cultural, economic, emotional, physical, and spiritual) at different levels, including community activities and events;
(v) Emphasize participants' strengths and abilities rather than impairments, and contribute to participants' feelings of competence and accomplishment; and
(vi) Provide opportunities to voluntarily perform services for community groups and organizations.
(f)
Social services.
(1) The State home must provide medically-related social services to participants and their families.
(2) An adult day health care program must provide a qualified social worker to furnish social services.
(3) A qualified social worker is an individual with:
(i) A bachelor's degree in social work from a school accredited by the Council of Social Work Education (
Note:
A master's degree in social worker with experience in long-term care is preferred);
(ii) A social work license from the State in which the State home is located, if that license is offered by the State; and
(iii) A minimum of one year of supervised social work experience in a health care setting working directly with individuals.
(4) The State home must have sufficient social workers and support staff to meet participant and family social service needs. The adult day health care program must:
(i) Provide counseling to participants and to families/caregivers;
(ii) Facilitate the participant's adaptation to the adult day health care program and active involvement in the comprehensive care plan, if appropriate;
(iii) Arrange for services not provided by adult day health care, and work with these resources to coordinate services;
(iv) Serve as an advocate for participants by asserting and safeguarding the human and civil rights of the participants;
(v) Assess signs of mental illness or dementia and make appropriate referrals;
(vi) Provide information and referral for persons not appropriate for adult day health care;
(vii) Provide family conferences, and serve as liaison between participant, family/caregiver and program staff;
(viii) Provide individual or group counseling and support to caregivers and participants;
(ix) Conduct support groups or facilitate participant or family/caregiver participation in support groups;
(x) Assist program staff in adapting to changes in participants' behavior; and
(xi) Provide or arrange for individual, group, or family psychotherapy for participants with significant psychosocial needs.
(5) Space for social services must be adequate to ensure privacy for interviews.
(g)
Environment.
The State home must provide:
(1) A safe, clean, comfortable, and homelike environment, and support the participants' ability to function as independently as possible and to engage in program activities;
(2) Housekeeping and maintenance services necessary to maintain a sanitary, orderly, and comfortable interior;
(3) Private storage space for each participant sufficient for a change of clothes. Upon request of the participant, the State home must offer storage space that can be secured with a lock;
(4) Interior signs to facilitate participants' ability to move about the facility independently and safely;
(5) A clean bed or reclining chair available for acute illness;
(6) A shower for participants;
(7) Adequate and comfortable lighting levels in all areas;
(8) Comfortable and safe temperature levels; and
(9) Comfortable sound levels.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.425
Physician orders and participant medical assessment.
The State home must have a written policy to determine how to coordinate and complete the written initial and comprehensive assessment processes upon admission, annually, and as required by a change in the participant's condition. The State home must also outline in its policy how it will complete, implement, review, and revise the assessments.
(a)
Admission.
At the time each participant is admitted, the State home must have physician orders for the participant's immediate care. An initial medical assessment including a medical history and physical examination with documentation of tuberculosis screening must be completed by a physician or other health care provider qualified under State law no earlier than 30 calendar days before admission and no later than 7 calendar days after admission. The findings must be recorded in the participant's medical record.
(b)
Comprehensive assessments.
The State home must complete the comprehensive assessment no later than 14 calendar days after admission. The State home must develop a comprehensive care plan for each participant based on his or her comprehensive assessment. The State home must review comprehensive assessments annually, as well as promptly after every significant change in the participant's physical, mental, or social condition. The State home must immediately change the participant's comprehensive care plan after a significant change is identified. At minimum, the written comprehensive assessment must address the following:
(1) Ability to ambulate,
(2) Ability to use bathroom facilities,
(3) Ability to eat and swallow,
(4) Ability to hear,
(5) Ability to see,
(6) Ability to experience feeling and movement,
(7) Ability to communicate,
(8) Risk of wandering,
(9) Risk of elopement,
(10) Risk of suicide,
(11) Risk of deficiencies regarding social interactions, and
(12) Special needs (such as medication, diet, nutrition, hydration, or prosthetics).
(c)
Coordination of assessments.
(1) Each initial and subsequent comprehensive assessment must be conducted and coordinated with the participation of appropriate health professionals.
(2) Each person who completes a portion of an assessment must sign and certify the accuracy of that portion of the assessment.
(3) The results of the assessments must be used to develop, review, and revise the participant's individualized comprehensive care plan.
(d)
Comprehensive care plans.
(1) The State home must ensure that each participant has a comprehensive care plan no later than 21 calendar days after admission. A participant's comprehensive care plan must be individualized and must include measurable objectives and timetables to meet all physical, mental, and psychosocial needs identified in the most recent assessment. The comprehensive care plan must describe the following:
(i) The services that are to be provided as part of the program of care and by other sources to attain or maintain the participant's highest physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being as required under § 51.430;
(ii) Any services that would otherwise be required under § 51.430 but are not provided due to the participant's exercise of rights under § 51.70, including the right to refuse treatment under § 51.70(b)(4);
(iii) Type and scope of interventions to be provided in order to reach desired, realistic outcomes;
(iv) Roles of participant and family/caregiver; and
(v) Discharge or transition plan, including specific criteria for discharge or transfer.
(2) The services provided or arranged by the State home must
(i) Meet professional standards of quality; and
(ii) Be provided by qualified persons in accordance with each participant's comprehensive care plan.
(e)
Discharge summary.
Prior to discharging a participant, the State home must prepare a discharge summary that includes the following:
(1) A summary of the participant's care;
(2) A summary of the participant's status at the time of the discharge to include items in paragraph (b) of this section; and
(3) A discharge/transition plan related to changes in service needs and changes in functional status that prompted transition to another program of care.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.430
Quality of care.
Each participant must receive, and the State home must provide, the necessary care and services to attain or maintain the highest practicable physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being, in accordance with the comprehensive assessment and comprehensive care plan.
(a)
Reporting of sentinel events
—(1)
Definition.
A “sentinel event” is defined in § 51.120(a)(1).
(2)
Duty to report sentinel events.
The State home must comply with the duties to report sentinel events as set forth in § 51.120(a)(3), except that the duty to report applies only to a sentinel event that occurs while the participant is under the care of the State home, including while in State home-provided transportation.
(3)
Review and prevention of sentinel events.
The State home must establish a mechanism to review and analyze a sentinel event resulting in a written report to be submitted to the VA Medical Center of jurisdiction no later than 10 working days after the event. The purpose of the review and analysis of a sentinel event is to prevent future injuries to participants, visitors, and personnel.
(b)
Activities of daily living.
Based on the comprehensive assessment of a participant, the State home must ensure that:
(1)
No diminution in activities of daily living.
A participant's abilities in activities of daily living do not diminish unless the circumstances of the individual's clinical condition demonstrate that diminution was unavoidable. This includes the participant's ability to
(i) Bathe, dress, and groom;
(ii) Transfer and ambulate;
(iii) Toilet; and
(iv) Eat.
(2)
Appropriate treatment and services given.
A participant is given the appropriate treatment and services to maintain or improve his or her abilities specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3)
Necessary services provided to participant unable to carry out activities of daily living.
A participant who is unable to carry out activities of daily living receives the necessary services to maintain good nutrition, hydration, grooming, personal and oral hygiene, mobility, and bladder and bowel elimination.
(c)
Mental and psychosocial functioning.
The State home must make counseling and related psychosocial services available for improving mental and psychosocial functioning of participants with mental or psychosocial needs. The services available must include counseling and psychosocial services provided by licensed independent mental health professionals.
(d)
Medication errors.
The State home must comply with § 51.120(n) with respect to medication errors.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.435
Nursing services.
The State home must provide an organized nursing service with a sufficient number of qualified nursing personnel to meet the total nursing care needs, as determined by participant assessments and individualized comprehensive care plans, of all participants in the program.
(a) There must be at least one registered nurse on duty each day of operation of the adult day health care program. This nurse must be currently licensed by the State and must have, in
writing, administrative authority, responsibility, and accountability for the functions, activities, and training of the nursing and program assistants.
(b) The number and level of nursing staff is determined by the authorized capacity of participants and the nursing care needs of the participants.
(c) Nurse staffing must be adequate for meeting the standards of this part.
§ 51.440
Dietary services.
The State home must comply with the requirements concerning the dietary services set forth in § 51.140, except paragraph 51.140(f). For purposes of this section, the references in the cited section to resident refer to a participant in subpart F of this part. The State home adult day health care program will provide nourishment to participants on the following schedule:
(a) At regular times comparable to normal mealtimes in the community, each participant may receive and program management must provide at least two meals daily for those veterans staying more than four hours and at least one meal for those staying less than four hours.
(b) The program management must offer snacks and fluids as appropriate to meet the participants' nutritional and fluid needs.
§ 51.445
Physician services.
As a condition of enrollment in adult day health care program, a participant must have a written physician order for admission. Each participant's medical record must contain the name of the participant's primary care physician. If a participant's medical needs require that the participant be placed in an adult day health care program that offers medical supervision, the primary care physician must state so in the order for admission. Each participant must remain under the care of a physician.
(a)
Physician supervision.
If the adult day health care program offers medical supervision, the program management must ensure that
(1) The medical care of each participant is supervised by a primary care physician; and
(2) Another physician is available to supervise the medical care of participants when their primary care physician is unavailable.
(b)
Frequency of physician reviews.
If the adult day health care program offers medical supervision:
(1) The participant must be seen by the primary care physician at least annually and as indicated by a change of condition.
(2) The program management must have a policy to help ensure that adequate medical services are provided to the participant.
(3) At the option of the primary care physician, required reviews in the program after the initial review may alternate between personal physician reviews and reviews by a physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or clinical nurse specialist in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Availability of acute care.
If the adult day health care program offers medical supervision, the program management must provide or arrange for the provision of acute care when it is indicated.
(d)
Availability of physicians for emergency care.
In case of an emergency, the program management must ensure that participants are able to obtain necessary emergency care.
(e)
Physician delegation of tasks.
(1) A primary care physician may delegate tasks to
(i) A certified physician assistant or a certified nurse practitioner, or
(ii) A clinical nurse specialist who-
(A) Is acting within the scope of practice as defined by State law; and
(B) Is under the supervision of the physician.
(2) The primary care physician may not delegate a task when the provisions of this part specify that the primary care physician must perform it personally, or when the delegation is prohibited under State law or by the State home's policies.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.450
Specialized rehabilitative services.
(a)
Provision of services.
If specialized rehabilitative services such as, but not limited to, physical therapy, speech
therapy, occupational therapy, and mental health services for mental illness are required in the participant's comprehensive care plan, program management must
(1) Provide the required services; or
(2) Obtain the required services and equipment from an outside resource, in accordance with § 51.210(h), from a provider of specialized rehabilitative services.
(b)
Written order.
Specialized rehabilitative services must be provided under the written order of a physician by qualified personnel.
§ 51.455
Dental services.
(a) If the adult day health care program offers medical supervision, program management must, if necessary, assist the participant and family/caregiver
(1) In making dental appointments; and
(2) By arranging for transportation to and from the dental services.
(b) If the adult day health care program offers medical supervision, program management must promptly assist and refer participants with lost or damaged dentures to a dentist.
§ 51.460
Administration of drugs.
If the adult day health care program offers medical supervision, the program management must assist participants with the management of medication and have a system for disseminating drug information to participants and program staff in accordance with this section.
(a)
Procedures.
The State home must
(1) Provide reminders or prompts to participants to initiate and follow through with self-administration of medications.
(2) Establish a system of records to document the administration of drugs by participants and/or staff.
(3) Ensure that drugs and biologicals used by participants are labeled in accordance with currently accepted professional principles, and include the appropriate accessory and cautionary instructions, and the expiration dates when applicable.
(4) Store all drugs, biologicals, and controlled schedule II drugs listed in 21 CFR 1308.12 in locked compartments under proper temperature controls, permit only authorized personnel to have access, and otherwise comply with all applicable State and Federal laws.
(b)
Service consultation.
The State home must provide the services of a pharmacist licensed in the State in which the program is located who provides consultation, as needed, on all the provision of drugs.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.465
Infection control.
The State home must meet the requirements concerning infection control set forth in § 51.190. For purposes of this section, the references in the cited section to resident refer to a participant in this section.
§ 51.470
Physical environment.
The State home must ensure that the physical environment is designed, constructed, equipped, and maintained to protect the health and safety of participants, personnel, and the public.
(a)
Life safety from fire.
The State home must meet the applicable requirements of National Fire Protection Association's NFPA 101, Life Safety from fire, as incorporated by reference in § 51.200.
(b)
Space and equipment.
(1) The State home must—
(i) Provide sufficient space and equipment in dining, health services, recreation, and program areas to enable staff to provide participants with needed services as required by this subpart F and as identified in each participant's comprehensive care plan; and
(ii) Maintain all essential mechanical, electrical, and patient care equipment in safe operating condition.
(2) Each adult day health care program, when it is co-located in a nursing home, domiciliary, or other care facility, must have its own separate designated space during operational hours.
(3) The indoor space for adult day health care must be at least 100 square feet per participant including office space for staff and must be 60 square feet per participant excluding office space for staff.
(4) Each program of care will need to design and partition its space to meet its needs, but the following functional areas must be available:
(i) A dividable multipurpose room or area for group activities, including dining, with adequate table-setting space.
(ii) Rehabilitation rooms or an area for individual and group treatments for occupational therapy, physical therapy, and other treatment modalities.
(iii) A kitchen area for refrigerated food storage, the preparation of meals and/or training participants in activities of daily living.
(iv) An examination and/or medication room.
(v) A quiet room (with a bed or a reclining chair), which functions to separate participants who become ill or disruptive, or who require rest, privacy, or observation. It should be separate from activity areas, near a restroom, and supervised.
(vi) Bathing facilities adequate to facilitate bathing of participants with functional impairments.
(vii) Toilet facilities and bathrooms easily accessible to people with mobility problems, including participants in wheelchairs. There must be at least one toilet for every eight participants. The toilets must be equipped for use by persons with limited mobility, easily accessible from all programs areas,
i.e.,
preferably within 40 feet from that area, designed to allow assistance from one or two staff, and barrier-free.
(viii) Adequate storage space. There should be space to store arts and crafts materials, wheelchairs, chairs, individual handiwork, and general supplies. Locked cabinets must be provided for files, records, supplies, and medications.
(ix) An individual room for counseling and interviewing participants and family members.
(x) A reception area.
(xi) An outside space that is used for outdoor activities that is safe, accessible to indoor areas, and accessible to those with a disability. This space may include recreational space and garden area. It should be easily supervised by staff.
(c)
Furnishings.
Furnishings must be available for all participants. This must include functional furniture appropriate to the participants' needs. Furnishings must be attractive, comfortable, and homelike, while being sturdy and safe.
(d)
Participant call system.
The coordinator's station must be equipped to receive participant calls through a communication system from:
(1) Clinic rooms; and
(2) Toilet and bathing facilities.
(e)
Other environmental conditions.
The State home must provide a safe, functional, sanitary, and comfortable environment for the participants, staff and the public. The facility management must
(1) Establish procedures to ensure that water is available to essential areas if there is a loss of normal water supply;
(2) Have adequate outside ventilation by means of windows, or mechanical ventilation, or a combination of the two;
(3) Equip corridors, when available, with firmly-secured handrails on each side; and
(4) Maintain an effective pest control program so that the facility is free of pests and rodents.
§ 51.475
Administration.
For purposes of this section, the references in the cited section to nursing home and nursing home care refer to adult day health care programs and adult day health care. The State home must comply with all administration requirements set forth in § 51.210 except for the following if the adult day health care program does not offer medical supervision:
(a)
Medical director.
State home adult day health care programs are not required to designate a primary care physician to serve as a medical director, and therefore are not required to comply with § 51.210(i).
(b)
Laboratory services, radiology, and other diagnostic services.
State home adult day health care programs are not required to provide the medical services identified in § 51.210(m) and (n).
(c)
Quality assessment and assurance committee.
State home adult day health care programs are not required to comply with § 51.210(p), regarding quality assessment and assurance committees
consisting of specified medical providers and staff.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0160)
§ 51.480
Transportation.
Transportation of participants to and from the adult day health care facility must be a component of the overall program of care.
(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the State home must provide for transportation to enable participants, including persons with disabilities, to attend the program and to participate in State home-sponsored outings.
(2) The veteran or the family of a veteran may decline transportation offered by the adult day health care program and make their own arrangements for transportation.
(b) The State home must have a transportation policy that includes procedures for routine and emergency transportation. All transportation (including that provided under contract) must be in compliance with such procedures.
(c) The State home must ensure that the transportation it provides is by drivers who have access to a device for two-way communication.
(d) All systems and vehicles used by the State home to comply with this section must meet all applicable local, State and Federal regulations.
(e) The State home must ensure that the care needs of each participant are addressed during transportation furnished by the home.
Pt. 53

# PART 53—PAYMENTS TO STATES FOR PROGRAMS TO PROMOTE THE HIRING AND RETENTION OF NURSES AT STATE VETERANS HOMES
Sec.
53.1
Purpose and scope.
53.2
Definitions.
53.10
Decision makers, notifications, and additional information.
53.11
General requirements for payments.
53.20
Application requirements.
53.30
Payments.
53.31
Annual report.
53.32
Recapture provisions.
53.40
Submissions of information and documents.
53.41
Notification of funding decision.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744.

# Source:
73 FR 73560, Dec. 3, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 53.1
Purpose and scope.
In accordance with the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 1744, this part sets forth the mechanism for a State to obtain payments to assist a State Veterans Home (SVH) in the hiring and retention of nurses for the purpose of reducing nursing shortages at that SVH.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
§ 53.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
Nurse
means an individual who is a registered nurse, a licensed practical nurse, a licensed vocational nurse, or a nursing assistant certified in the State in which payment is made and who is a bedside caregiver at least a majority of the time (e.g., this would generally not include an individual acting in the capacity of an advance practice nurse, an administrative nurse, or a director of nursing) (the terms
nurses
and
nursing
shall be construed consistent with this definition).
State
means each of the several States, Territories, and possessions of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
State representative
means the official designated in accordance with State authority with responsibility for matters relating to payments under this part.
State Veterans Home (SVH)
means a home approved by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) which a State established primarily for veterans disabled by age, disease, or otherwise, who by reason of such disability are incapable of earning a living. A SVH may provide domiciliary care, nursing home care, adult day health care, and hospital care. Hospital care may be provided only when the SVH also provides domiciliary and/or nursing home care.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
§ 53.10
Decision makers, notifications, and additional information.
The Director, Geriatrics and Extended Care Operations, will make all determinations regarding payments under this part, and will provide written notice to affected State representatives of approvals, denials, or requests for additional information under this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
[73 FR 73560, Dec. 3, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 73313, Dec. 10, 2012]
§ 53.11
General requirements for payments.
(a) VA will make payment under this part to a State for an employee incentive program to reduce the shortage of nurses at the SVH, when the following conditions are met:
(1) The State representative applies for payment in accordance with the provisions of § 53.20;
(2) The SVH receives per diem payments from VA under the provisions of 38 U.S.C. 1741 for one or more of the following: Adult day health care, domiciliary care, hospital care, or nursing home care;
(3) The SVH has a nursing shortage that is documented by credible evidence, including but not limited to SVH records showing nursing vacancies, SVH records showing nurse overtime use, and reports documenting that nurses are difficult to hire in the local area and difficult to retain as employees at the SVH;
(4) The SVH does not use payments under this part to pay for all or part of a nurse's standard employee benefits, such as salary, health insurance, or retirement plan;
(5) The SVH provides to the Director, Geriatrics and Extended Care Operations, documentation establishing that it has an employee incentive program that:
(i) Is likely to be effective in promoting the hiring and retention of nurses for the purpose of reducing nursing shortages at that home, and
(ii) Is in operation or ready for immediate implementation if VA payments are made under this part;
(6) The payment amount applied for by the State is no more than 50 percent of the funding for the employee incentive program during the Federal fiscal year;
(7) The SVH employee incentive program includes a mechanism to ensure that an individual receiving benefits under the program works at the SVH as a nurse for a period commensurate with the benefits provided, and, insofar as possible, the program is designed to eliminate any nursing shortage at the SVH within a 3-year period from the initiation of VA payments;
(8) The SVH, if it received payments under this part during a previous Federal fiscal year, has met the reporting requirements of § 53.31(a) regarding such payments;
(9) The SVH credits to its employee incentive program any funds refunded to the SVH by an employee because the employee was in breach of an agreement for employee assistance funded with payments made under this part and the SVH credits the amount returned as a non-Federal funding source; and
(10) The project does not involve the construction, acquisition, expansion, remodeling or alteration of the SVH.
(b) VA intends to allow flexibility and innovation in determining the types of employee incentive programs at SVHs eligible for payments. Programs could include such things as the provision of short-term scholarships for continuing nursing education, sign-on bonuses for nurses, student loan forgiveness programs, and improvements to working conditions. In determining whether an employee incentive program is likely to be effective, VA will consider any information available, including past performance of the SVH's program funded by payments made under this part.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0709)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
[73 FR 73560, Dec. 3, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 73313, Dec. 10, 2012]
§ 53.20
Application requirements.
(a) To apply for payments during a Federal fiscal year, a State representative must submit to VA, in accordance
with § 53.40, a completed VA Form 10-0430 and documentation specified by the form (VA Form 10-0430 is available at VA medical centers and on the Internet at
http://www1.va.gov/geriatricsshg/
or may be obtained by contacting the Geriatrics and Extended Care Office at 202-461-6750, VHA Headquarters, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20420). The submission for payments for a fiscal year must be received by VA during the last quarter (July 1-September 30) of the preceding fiscal year. The State must submit a new application for each fiscal year that the State seeks payments for an incentive program.
(b) As part of the application, the State representative must submit to VA evidence that the State has sufficient funding, when combined with the VA payments, to fully operate its employee incentive program through the end of the fiscal year. To meet this requirement, the State representative must provide to VA a letter from an authorized State official certifying that, if VA were to approve payments under this part, the non-VA share of the funds for the program would be by a date or dates specified in the certification, available for the employee incentive program without further State action to make such funds available. If the certification is based on a State law authorizing funds for the employee incentive program, a copy of the State law must be submitted with the certification.
(c) If an application does not contain sufficient information for a determination under this part, the State representative will be notified in writing (electronically and by mail) of any additional submission required and that the State has 30 calendar days from the date of the notice to submit such additional information or no further action will be taken. If the State representative does not submit all of the required information or demonstrate that he or she has good cause for failing to provide the information within 30 calendar days of the notice (which may extend beyond the last quarter of the preceding Federal fiscal year), then the State applicant will be notified in writing that the application for VA assistance will be deemed withdrawn and no further action will be taken.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0709)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
[73 FR 73560, Dec. 3, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 73313, Dec. 10, 2012]
§ 53.30
Payments.
(a) The amount of payments awarded under this part during a Federal fiscal year will be the amount requested by the State and approved by VA in accordance with this part. Payments may not exceed 50 percent of the cost of the employee incentive program for that fiscal year and may not exceed 2 percent of the amount of the total per diem payments estimated by VA to be made under 38 U.S.C. 1741 to the State for that SVH during that fiscal year for adult day health care, domiciliary care, hospital care, and nursing home care.
(b) Payments will be made by lump sum or installment as deemed appropriate by the Director, Geriatrics and Extended Care Operations.
(c) Payments will be made to the State or, if designated by the State representative, the SVH conducting the employee incentive program.
(d) Payments made under this part for a specific employee incentive program shall be used solely for that purpose.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
[73 FR 73560, Dec. 3, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 73313, Dec. 10, 2012]
§ 53.31
Annual report.
(a) A State receiving payment under this part shall provide to VA a report setting forth in detail the use of the funds, including a descriptive analysis of how effective the employee incentive program has been in improving nurse staffing in the SVH. The report shall be provided to VA within 60 days of the close of the Federal fiscal year (September 30) in which payment was made and shall be subject to audit by VA.
(b) A State receiving payment under this part shall also prepare audit reports as required by the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards under 2 CFR part 200 and submit them to VA.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0709)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
[73 FR 73560, Dec. 3, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 43322, July 22, 2015]
§ 53.32
Recapture provisions.
If a State fails to use the funds provided under this part for the purpose for which payment was made or receives more than is allowed under this part, the United States shall be entitled to recover from the State the amount not used for such purpose or the excess amount received.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
§ 53.40
Submissions of information and documents.
All submissions of information and documents required to be presented to VA must be made to the Director, Geriatrics and Extended Care Operations, VHA Headquarters, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20420.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0709)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
[73 FR 73560, Dec. 3, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 73313, Dec. 10, 2012]
§ 53.41
Notification of funding decision.
If the Director, Geriatrics and Extended Care Operation, determines that a submission from a State fails to meet the requirements of this part for funding, the Director shall provide written notice of the decision and the reasons for the decision.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1744)
[73 FR 73560, Dec. 3, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 73313, Dec. 10, 2012]
PART 58 [RESERVED]
Pt. 59

# PART 59—GRANTS TO STATES FOR CONSTRUCTION OR ACQUISITION OF STATE HOMES
Sec.
59.1
Purpose.
59.2
Definitions.
59.3
Federal Application Identifier.
59.4
Decisionmakers, notifications, and additional information.
59.5
Submissions of information and documents to VA.
59.10
General requirements for a grant.
59.20
Initial application requirements.
59.30
Documentation.
59.40
Maximum number of nursing home care and domiciliary care beds for veterans by State.
59.50
Priority list.
59.60
Additional application requirements.
59.70
Award of grants.
59.80
Amount of grant.
59.90
Line item adjustments to grants.
59.100
Payment of grant award.
59.110
Recapture provisions.
59.120
Hearings.
59.121
Amendments to application.
59.122
Withdrawal of application.
59.123
Conference.
59.124
Inspections, audits, and reports.
59.130
General requirements for all State home facilities.
59.140
Nursing home care requirements.
59.150
Domiciliary care requirements.
59.160
Adult day health care requirements.
59.170
Forms.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137.

# Source:
66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 59.1
Purpose.
This part sets forth the mechanism for a State to obtain a grant:
(a) To construct State home facilities (or to acquire facilities to be used as State home facilities) for furnishing domiciliary or nursing home care to veterans, and
(b) To expand, remodel, or alter existing buildings for furnishing domiciliary, nursing home, adult day health, or hospital care to veterans in State homes.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part:
Acquisition
means the purchase of a facility in which to establish a State
home for the provision of domiciliary and/or nursing home care to veterans.
Adult day health care
is a therapeutically-oriented outpatient day program, which provides health maintenance and rehabilitative services to participants. The program must provide individualized care delivered by an interdisciplinary health care team and support staff, with an emphasis on helping participants and their caregivers to develop the knowledge and skills necessary to manage care requirements in the home. Adult day health care is principally targeted for complex medical and/or functional needs of elderly veterans.
Construction
means the construction of new domiciliary or nursing home buildings, the expansion, remodeling, or alteration of existing buildings for the provision of domiciliary, nursing home, or adult day health care, or hospital care in State homes, and the provision of initial equipment for any such buildings.
Domiciliary care
means providing shelter, food, and necessary medical care on an ambulatory self-care basis (this is more than room and board). It assists eligible veterans who are suffering from a disability, disease, or defect of such a degree that incapacitates veterans from earning a living, but who are not in need of hospitalization or nursing care services. It assists in attaining physical, mental, and social well-being through special rehabilitative programs to restore residents to their highest level of functioning.
Nursing home care
means the accommodation of convalescents or other persons who are not acutely ill and not in need of hospital care, but who require skilled nursing care and related medical services.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.
State
means each of the several states, the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
State representative
means the official designated in accordance with State authority with responsibility for matters relating to the request for a grant under this part.
VA
means the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 75 FR 17860, Apr. 8, 2010]
§ 59.3
Federal Application Identifier.
Once VA has provided the State representative with a Federal Application Identifier Number for a project, the number must be included on all subsequent written communications to VA from the State, or its agent, regarding a request for a grant for that project under this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.4
Decisionmakers, notifications, and additional information.
The decisionmaker for decisions required under this part will be the Director, Capital Asset Management and Support, unless specified to be the Secretary or other VA official. The VA decisionmaker will provide written notice to affected States of approvals, denials, or requests for additional information under this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 21265, Apr. 10, 2013]
§ 59.5
Submissions of information and documents to VA.
All submissions of information and documents required to be presented to VA must be made, unless otherwise specified under this part, to the Director, Capital Asset Management and Support (10NA5), VA Central Office, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20420.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 78 FR 21265, Apr. 10, 2013]
§ 59.10
General requirements for a grant.
For a State to obtain a grant under this part and grant funds, its initial application for the grant must be approved under § 59.20, and the project must be ranked sufficiently high on the priority list for the current fiscal year so that funding is available for the project. It must meet the additional application requirements in § 59.60, and it must meet all other requirements under this part for obtaining a grant and grant funds.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.20
Initial application requirements.
(a) For a project to be considered for inclusion on the priority list in § 59.50 of this part for the next fiscal year, a State must submit to VA an original and one copy of a completed VA Form 10-0388-1 and all information, documentation, and other forms specified by VA Form 10-0388-1 (these forms are available on the internet Web sites provided in § 59.170 of this part).
(b) The Secretary, based on the information submitted for a project pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, will approve the project for inclusion on the priority list in § 59.50 of this part if the submission includes all of the information requested under paragraph (a) of this section and if the submission represents a project that, if further developed, could meet the requirements for a grant under this part.
(c) The items requested under paragraph (a) of this section must be received by VA no later than April 15 in order for VA to include the application on the priority list for the award of grants during the next fiscal year.
See
§ 59.50, Priority List.
(d) If a State representative believes that VA may not award a grant to the State for a grant application during the current fiscal year and wants to ensure that VA includes the application on the priority list for the next fiscal year, the State representative must, prior to April 15 of the current fiscal year,
(1) Request VA to include the application in those recommended to the Secretary for inclusion on the priority list, and
(2) Send any updates to VA.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0661)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 58880, Oct. 8, 2008; 77 FR 10665, Feb. 23, 2012]
§ 59.30
Documentation.
For a State to obtain a grant and grant funds under this part, the State must submit to VA documentation that the site of the project is in reasonable proximity to a sufficient concentration and population of veterans that are 65 years of age and older and that there is a reasonable basis to conclude that the facility when complete will be fully occupied. This documentation must be included in the initial application submitted to VA under § 59.20.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.40
Maximum number of nursing home care and domiciliary care beds for veterans by State.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a state may not request a grant for a project to construct or acquire a new state home facility, to increase the number of beds available at a state home facility, or to replace beds at a state home facility if the project would increase the total number of state home nursing home and domiciliary beds in that state beyond the maximum number designated for that state, as shown in the following chart. The provisions of 38 U.S.C. 8134 require VA to prescribe for each state the number of nursing home and domiciliary beds for which grants may be furnished (
i.e.
, the unmet need). A state's unmet need for state home nursing home and domiciliary beds is the number in the following chart for that state minus the sum of the number of nursing home and domiciliary beds in operation at state home facilities and the number of state home nursing home and domiciliary beds not yet in operation but for which a grant
has either been requested or awarded under this part.
State
Maximum
number
of state home,
nursing home
domiciliary
beds based
on 2020
projections
Alabama
1007
Alaska
179
Arizona
1520
Arkansas
653
California
4363
Colorado
1114
Connecticut
559
Delaware
207
District of Columbia
83
Florida
4049
Georgia
1975
Hawaii
268
Idaho
394
Illinois
1754
Indiana
1216
Iowa
578
Kansas
518
Kentucky
818
Louisiana
638
Maine
362
Maryland
1102
Massachusetts
944
Michigan
1786
Minnesota
1058
Mississippi
480
Missouri
1257
Montana
281
Nebraska
371
Nevada
649
New Hampshire
361
New Jersey
992
New Mexico
417
New York
2209
North Carolina
1900
North Dakota
137
Ohio
2143
Oklahoma
766
Oregon
907
Pennsylvania
2336
Puerto Rico
288
Rhode Island
157
South Carolina
1089
South Dakota
179
Tennessee
1311
Texas
4119
Utah
426
Vermont
142
Virginia
1903
Virgin Islands
12
Washington
1687
West Virginia
406
Wisconsin
1062
Wyoming
154
American Samoa
0
Guam
12
N. Mariana Islands
1

# Note to paragraph (
a

# ):
The provisions of 38 U.S.C. 8134 require that the “un-met need” numbers be based on a 10-year projection of demand for nursing home and domiciliary care by veterans who at such time are 65 years of age or older and who reside in that state. In determining the projected demand, VA must take into account travel distances for veterans and their families.
(b) A State may request a grant for a project that would increase the total number of State nursing home and domiciliary beds beyond the maximum number for that State, if the State submits to VA, documentation to establish a need for the exception based on travel distances of at least two hours (by land transportation or any other usual mode of transportation if land transportation is not available) between a veteran population center sufficient for the establishment of a State home and any existing State home. The determination regarding a request for an exception will be made by the Secretary.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 75 FR 17860, Apr. 8, 2010]
§ 59.50
Priority list.
(a) The Secretary will make a list prioritizing the applications that were received on or before April 15 and that were approved under § 59.20 of this part. Except as otherwise provided in this section, applications will be prioritized from the highest to the lowest in the following order:
(1)
Priority group 1.
An application from a State that has made sufficient funds available for the project for which the grant is requested so that such project may proceed upon approval of the grant without further action required by the State (such as subsequent issuance of bonds) to make such funds available for the project. To meet this criteria, the State must provide to VA a letter from an authorized State budget official certifying that the State funds are, or will be, available for the project, so that if VA awards the grant, the project may proceed without further State action to make such funds available (such as further action to issue bonds). If the certification is based on an Act authorizing the project and making available the State's matching funds for the project, a copy of the Act must be submitted with the certification.
(i)
Priority group 1—subpriority 1.
An application for a life or safety project, which means a project to remedy a
condition, or conditions, at an existing facility that have been cited as threatening to the lives or safety of one or more of the residents or program participants in the facility by a VA safety office, VA engineering office, or other VA office with responsibility for life and safety inspections; a State or local government agency (including a Fire Marshal); or an accrediting institution (including the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations). Unless an addition or replacement of building utility systems or features is necessary to remedy a cited threat to the lives or safety of residents and program participants, this priority group does not include applications for the addition or replacement of building utility systems or features; such applications will be prioritized in accordance with the criteria in subpriority group 5 of priority group 1. An application may be included in this subpriority group only if all of the funds requested would be used for a life or safety project; or, if the estimated cost of the life or safety project is under $400,000.00, and the majority of the funds requested would be used for such a project. Projects in this subpriority group will be further prioritized in the following order:
(A) Seismic;
(B) Building construction;
(C) Egress;
(D) Building compartmentalization (e.g., smoke barrier, fire walls);
(E) Fire alarm/detection;
(F) Security;
(G) Asbestos/hazardous materials; and
(H) All other projects (e.g., nurse call systems, patient lifts).
(ii)
Priority group 1—subpriority 2.
An application from a State that has not previously applied for a grant under 38 U.S.C. 8131-8137 for construction or acquisition of a State nursing home.
(iii)
Priority group 1—subpriority 3.
An application for construction or acquisition of a nursing home or domiciliary from a State that has a great need for the beds that the State, in that application, proposes to establish.
(iv)
Priority group 1—subpriority 4.
An application from a State for renovations to a State Home facility other than renovations that would be included in subpriority group 1 of priority group 1. Projects will be further prioritized in the following order:
(A) Adult day health care renovation and construction of a new adult day health care facility that replaces an existing facility;
(B) Nursing home renovation (e.g., patient privacy) and construction of a new nursing home that replaces an existing nursing home;
(C) Code compliance under the Americans with Disabilities Act;
(D) Building systems and utilities (e.g., electrical; heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC); boiler; medical gasses; roof; elevators);
(E) Clinical-support facilities (e.g., for dietetics, laundry, rehabilitation therapy); and
(F) General renovation/upgrade (e.g., warehouse, storage, administration/office, multipurpose).
(v)
Priority group 1—subpriority 5.
An application for construction or acquisition of a nursing home or domiciliary from a State that has a significant need for the beds that the State in that application proposes to establish.
(vi)
Priority group 1—subpriority 6.
An application for construction or acquisition of a nursing home or domiciliary from a State that has not demonstrated that State funds are being used to protect the lives or safety of the residents and program participants of the facility as required in § 59.50(e).
(vii)
Priority group 1—subpriority 7.
An application for construction or acquisition of a nursing home or domiciliary from a State that has a limited need for the beds that the State, in that application, proposes to establish.

# Note to paragraph (
a

# )(1):
The following chart is intended to provide a graphic aid for understanding priority group 1 and its subpriorities.
ER10AP13.001
(2)
Priority group 2.
An application not meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section but meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. Projects within this priority group will be further prioritized the same as in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (a)(1)(i)(H) of this section.
(3)
Priority group 3.
An application not meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section but meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(4)
Priority group 4.
An application not meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section but meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.
(5)
Priority group 5.
An application not meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section but meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section. Projects within this priority
group will be further prioritized the same as in paragraphs (a)(1)(iv)(A) through (a)(1)(iv)(F) of this section.
(6)
Priority group 6.
An application not meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section but meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section.
(7)
Priority group 7.
An application not meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section but meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section.
(8)
Priority group 8.
An application not meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section but meeting the criteria of paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section.
(b)(1) If a State accepts a partial grant for a project under § 59.80(a)(2), VA will give that project the highest priority for the next fiscal year within the priority group to which it is assigned (without further prioritization of that priority group) to receive up to 30 percent of the funds available for that year. Funds available do not include funds conditionally obligated in the previous fiscal year under § 59.70(a)(2).
(2) If, in a given fiscal year, more than one State previously accepted a partial grant under § 59.80(a)(2), these partial-grant recipients will be further prioritized on the priority list for that fiscal year based on the date that VA first awarded a partial grant for the project (the earlier the grant was awarded, the higher the priority given). The partial-grant recipients, in aggregate, may receive up to 30 percent of the funds available for that year that would be set aside for partial-grant recipients.
(c) An application will be given priority on the priority list (after applications described in paragraph (b) of this section) for the next fiscal year ahead of all applications that had not been approved under § 59.20 on the date that the application was approved under § 59.20, if:
(1) During the current fiscal year VA would have awarded a grant based on the application except for the fact that VA determined that the State did not, by July 1, provide evidence that it had its matching funds for the project, and
(2) The State was notified prior to July 1 that VA had funding available for this grant application.
(d) Applications in each priority or subpriority group will be further prioritized based on the date the application was received in VA (the earlier the application was received, the higher the priority given). Projects will be prioritized under this paragraph after all prioritization is completed under the projects' priority or subpriority group, as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, and only if necessary to give separate priorities to applications that have the same priority ranking after the prioritization specified in paragraph (a) of this section is accomplished.
(e) If any State home in a State has been cited by a VA safety office, VA engineering office, or other VA office with responsibility for life and safety inspections; a State or local government agency (including a Fire Marshal); or an accrediting institution (including the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) for conditions that threaten the lives or safety of one or more of the residents or program participants in the facility, the State must include in any application submitted under § 59.20 or its updates to such application its plan to address all such citations. If VA determines that the State's plan fails to set forth how it will address such citations in a reasonable period of time, then VA will prioritize all applications of such State as follows:
(1) Applications that meet the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but do not meet the criteria of paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (vii) of this section, will be prioritized in subpriority group 6 of priority group 1 (paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section).
(2) Applications not meeting the criteria for placement in priority group 1 (paragraph (a)(1) of this section) and not meeting the criteria of subpriority group 1 of priority group 1 (paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section) will be prioritized in priority group 7 (paragraph (a)(7) of this section).
(f) The priority list will not contain any project for the construction or acquisition of a hospital or hospital beds.
(g) For purposes of establishing priorities under this section:
(1) A State has a great need for nursing home and domiciliary beds if the State:
(i) Has no State homes with nursing home or domiciliary beds, or
(ii) Has an unmet need of 2,000 or more nursing home and domiciliary beds;
(2) A State has a significant need for nursing home and domiciliary beds if the State has an unmet need of 1,000 to 1,999 nursing home and domiciliary beds; and
(3) A State has a limited need for nursing home and domiciliary beds if the State has an unmet need of 999 or fewer nursing home and domiciliary beds.
(h) Except for applications that must be included in subpriority group 1 of priority group 1, applications for projects with components that could be prioritized in more than one priority group will be placed in the priority group toward which the largest share of the cost of the project is allocated. Once the correct priority group is determined, applications for projects with components that could be prioritized in more than one subpriority group in that priority group will be placed in the subpriority group toward which the largest share of the cost of the project is allocated. For example, if a project for which 25 percent of the funds needed would address seismic issues and 75 percent of the funds needed would be for building construction in a State with a great need for new beds, the project would be placed in subpriority group 3. If the highest-cost component of an application for multiple projects does not meet the criteria for placement in priority group 1, subpriority group 1, because it is estimated to cost $400,000.00 or more, it will be prioritized based on the component with the next largest share of the cost.
(i) Once the Secretary prioritizes the applications in the priority list, VA will not change the priorities unless a change is necessary as a result of an appeal.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 71 FR 46104, Aug. 11, 2006; 77 FR 10665, Feb. 23, 2012; 78 FR 21265, Apr. 10, 2013]
§ 59.60
Additional application requirements.
For a project to be eligible for a grant under this part for the fiscal year for which the priority list was made, during that fiscal year the State must submit to VA an original and a copy of the following:
(a) Complete, updated Standard Forms 424 (mark the box labeled application and submit the information requested for an application), 424C, and 424D (these forms are available on the internet Web site provided in § 59.170 of this part), and
(b) A completed VA Form 10-0388-5 and all information and documentation specified by VA Form 10-0388-5 (this form is available on the internet Web site provided in § 59.170).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 58880, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 59.70
Award of grants.
(a) The Secretary, during the fiscal year for which a priority list is made under this part, will:
(1) Award a grant for each application that has been approved under § 59.20, that is sufficiently high on the priority list so that funding is available for the application, that meets the additional application requirements in § 59.60, and that meets all other requirements under this part for obtaining a grant, or
(2) Conditionally approve a grant for a project for which a State has submitted an application that substantially meets the requirements of this part if the State representative requests conditional approval and provides written assurance that the State will meet all requirements for a grant not later than 180 calendar days after the date of conditional approval. If a State that has obtained conditional approval for a project does not meet all of
the requirements within 180 calendar days after the date of conditional approval, the Secretary will rescind the conditional approval and the project will be ineligible for a grant in the fiscal year in which the State failed to fully complete the application. The funds that were conditionally obligated for the project will be deobligated.
(b) As a condition of receiving a grant, a State must make sufficient funds available for the project for which the grant is requested so that such project may proceed upon approval of the grant without further action required by the State (such as subsequent issuance of bonds) to make such funds available for such purpose. To meet this criteria, the State must provide to VA a letter from an authorized State budget official certifying that the State funds are, or will be, available for the project, so that if VA awards the grant, the project may proceed without further State action to make such funds available (such as further action to issue bonds). If the certification is based on an Act authorizing the project and making available the State's matching funds for the project, a copy of the Act must be submitted with the certification. To be eligible for inclusion in priority group 1 under this part, a State must make such funds available by August 1 of the year prior to the fiscal year for which the grant is requested. To otherwise be eligible for a grant and grant funds based on inclusion on the priority list in other than priority group 1, a State must make such funds available by July 1 of the fiscal year for which the grant is requested.
(c) As a condition of receiving a grant, the State representative and the Secretary will sign three originals of the Memorandum of Agreement documents (one for the State and two for VA). A sample is in § 59.170.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 77 FR 10665, Feb. 23, 2012]
§ 59.80
Amount of grant.
(a) The total cost of a project (VA and State) for which a grant is awarded under this part may not be less than $400,000 and, except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, the total cost of a project will not exceed the total cost of new construction. The amount of a grant awarded under this part will be the amount requested by the State and approved in accordance with this part, not to exceed 65 percent of the total cost of the project except that:
(1) The total cost of a project will not include the cost of space that exceeds the maximum allowable space specified in this part, and
(2) The amount of the grant may be less than 65 percent of the total cost of the project if the State accepts less because VA did not have sufficient funds to award the full amount of the grant requested.
(b) The total cost of a project under this part for acquisition of a facility may also include construction costs.
(c) The total cost of a project under this part will not include any costs incurred before the date VA sent the State written notification that the application in § 59.20 was approved.
(d) The total cost of a project under this part may include administration and production costs, e.g., architectural and engineering fees, inspection fees, and printing and advertising costs.
(e) The total cost of a project under this part may include the cost of projects on the grounds of the facility, e.g., parking lots, landscaping, sidewalks, streets, and storm sewers, only if they are inextricably involved with the construction of the project.
(f) The total cost of a project under this part may include the cost of equipment necessary for the operation of the State home facility. This may include the cost of:
(1) Fixed equipment included in the construction or acquisition contract. Fixed equipment must be permanently affixed to the building or connected to the heating, ventilating, air conditioning, or other service distributed through the building via ducts, pipes, wires, or other connecting device. Fixed equipment must be installed during construction. Examples of fixed equipment include kitchen and intercommunication equipment, built-in cabinets, and cubicle curtain rods; and
(2) Other equipment not included in the construction contract constituting
no more than 10 percent of the total construction contract cost of the project. Other equipment includes: furniture, furnishings, wheeled equipment, kitchen utensils, linens, draperies, blinds, electric clocks, pictures and trash cans.
(g) The contingency allowance may not exceed five percent of the total cost of the project for new construction or eight percent for renovation projects.
(h) The total cost of a project under this part may not include the cost of:
(1) Land acquisition;
(2) Maintenance or repair work; or
(3) Office supplies or consumable goods (such as food, drugs, medical dressings, paper, printed forms, and soap) which are routinely used in a State home.
(i) A grant for expansion, remodeling, or alteration of an existing State home, which is on or eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places, for furnishing domiciliary, nursing home, or adult day health care to veterans may not be awarded for the expansion, remodeling, or alteration of such building if such action does not comply with National Historic Preservation Act procedures or if the total cost of remodeling, renovating, or adapting such building or facility exceeds the cost of comparable new construction by more than five percent. If demolition of an existing building or facility on, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places is deemed necessary and such demolition action is taken in compliance with National Historic Preservation Act procedures, any mitigation cost negotiated in the compliance process and/or the cost to professionally record the building or facility in the Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS), plus the total cost for demolition and site restoration, shall be included by the State in calculating the total cost of new construction.
(j) The cost of demolition of a building cannot be included in the total cost of construction unless the proposed construction is in the same location as the building to be demolished or unless the demolition is inextricably linked to the design of the construction project.
(k) With respect to the final award of a conditionally-approved grant, the Secretary may not award a grant for an amount that is 10 percent more than the amount conditionally-approved.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.90
Line item adjustments to grants.
After a grant has been awarded, upon request from the State representative, VA may approve a change in a line item (line items are identified in Form 424C which is set forth in § 59.170(o) of this part) of up to 10 percent (increase or decrease) of the cost of the line item if the change would be within the scope or objective of the project and would not change the amount of the grant.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.100
Payment of grant award.
The amount of the grant award will be paid to the State or, if designated by the State representative, the State home for which such project is being carried out or any other State agency or instrumentality. Such amount shall be paid by way of reimbursement, and in such installments consistent with the progress of the project as the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care, may determine and certify for payment to the appropriate Federal institution. Funds paid under this section for an approved project shall be used solely for carrying out such project as so approved. As a condition for the final payment, the State must comply with the requirements of this part based on an architectural and engineering inspection approved by VA, must obtain VA approval of the final equipment list submitted by the State representative, and must submit to VA a completed VA Form 10-0388-13 (this form is available on the internet Web site provided in § 59.170). The equipment list and the completed VA Form 10-0388-13 must be submitted to the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care (114), VHA Headquarters; 810
Vermont Avenue, NW.; Washington, DC 20420.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[73 FR 58880, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 59.110
Recapture provisions.
If a facility for which a grant has been awarded ceases to be operated as a State home for the purpose for which the grant was made, the United States shall be entitled to recover from the State which was the recipient of the grant or from the then owner of such construction as follows:
(a) If less than 20 years has lapsed since the grant was awarded, and VA provided 65 percent of the estimated cost to construct, acquire or renovate a State home facility principally for furnishing domiciliary care, nursing home care, adult day health care, hospital care, or non-institutional care to veterans, VA shall be entitled to recover 65 percent of the current value of such facility (but in no event an amount greater than the amount of assistance provided for such under these regulations), as determined by agreement of the parties or by action brought in the district court of the United States for the district in which the facility is situated.
(b) Based on the time periods for grant amounts set forth below, if VA provided between 50 and 65 percent of the estimated cost of expansion, remodeling, or alteration of an existing State home facility, VA shall be entitled to recover the amount of the grant as determined by agreement of the parties or by action brought in the district court of the United States for the district in which the facility is situated:
Grant amount
(dollars in thousands)
Recovery period
(in years)
0-250
7
251-500
8
501-750
9
751-1,000
10
1,001-1,250
11
1,251-1,500
12
1,501-1,750
13
1,751-2,000
14
2,001-2,250
15
2,251-2,500
16
2,501-2,750
17
2,751-3,000
18
Over 3,000
20
(c) If the magnitude of the VA contribution is below 50 percent of the estimated cost of the expansion, remodeling, or alteration of an existing State home facility recognized by the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Under Secretary for Health may authorize a recovery period between 7 and 20 years depending on the grant amount involved and the magnitude of the project.
(d) This section does not apply to any portion of a State home in which VA has established and operates an outpatient clinic.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.120
Hearings.
If the Secretary determines that a submission from a State does not meet the requirements of this part, the Secretary will advise the State by letter that a grant is tentatively denied, explain the reasons for the tentative denial, and inform the State of the opportunity to appeal to the Board of Veterans' Appeals pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 7105. Decisions under this part are not subject to the provisions of § 17.133 of this order.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 511, 1710, 1742, 7101-7298, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.121
Amendments to application.
Any amendment of an application that changes the scope of the application or changes the cost estimates by 10 percent or more shall be subject to approval in the same manner as an original application.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.122
Withdrawal of application.
A State representative may withdraw an application by submitting to VA a written document requesting withdrawal.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.123
Conference.
At any time, VA may recommend that a conference (such as a design development conference) be held in VA Central Office in Washington, DC, to
provide an opportunity for the State and its architects to discuss requirements for a grant with VA officials.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.124
Inspections, audits, and reports.
(a) A State will allow VA inspectors and auditors to conduct inspections and audits as necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this part. The State will provide evidence that it has met its responsibility under the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards under 2 CFR part 200 and submit that evidence to VA.
(b) A State will make such reports in such form and containing such information as the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care, may from time to time reasonably require and give the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care, upon demand, access to the records upon which such information is based.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 80 FR 43323, July 22, 2015]
§ 59.130
General requirements for all State home facilities.
As a condition for receiving a grant and grant funds under this part, States must comply with the requirements of this section.
(a) The physical environment of a State home must be designed, constructed, equipped, and maintained to protect the health and safety of participants, personnel and the public.
(b) A State home must meet the general conditions of the American Institute of Architects, or other general conditions required by the State, for awarding contracts for State home grant projects. Facilities must meet all Federal, State, and local requirements, including the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) (24 CFR part 40, appendix A), during the design and construction of projects subject to this part. If the State or local requirements are different from the Federal requirements, compliance with the most stringent provisions is required. A State must design and construct the project to provide sufficient space and equipment in dining, health services, recreation, and program areas to enable staff to provide residents with needed services as required by this part and as identified in each resident's plan of care.
(c) State homes should be planned to approximate the home atmosphere as closely as possible. The interior and exterior should provide an attractive and home-like environment for elderly residents. The site will be located in a safe, secure, residential-type area that is accessible to acute medical care facilities, community activities and amenities, and transportation facilities typical of the area.
(d)(1) State homes must meet the applicable provisions of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, except that the NFPA requirement in paragraph 19.3.5.1 for all buildings containing nursing homes to have an automatic sprinkler system is not applicable until February 24, 2016 for “existing buildings” with nursing home facilities as of June 25, 2001 (paragraph 3.3.36.5 in the NFPA 101 defines an “[e]xisting [b]uilding” as “[a] building erected or officially authorized prior to the effective date of the adoption of this edition of the Code by the agency or jurisdiction”), and NFPA 99, Heath Care Facilities Code.
(2) Facilities must also meet the State and local fire codes.
(e) State homes must have an emergency electrical power system to supply power adequate to operate all exit signs and lighting for means of egress, fire and medical gas alarms, and emergency communication systems. The source of power must be an on-site emergency standby generator of sufficient size to serve the connected load or other approved sources.
(f) The nurse's station must be equipped to receive resident calls through a communication system from resident rooms, toilet and bathing facilities, dining areas, and activity areas.
(g) The State home must have one or more rooms designated for resident dining and activities. These rooms must be:
(1) Well lighted;
(2) Well ventilated; and
(3) Adequately furnished.
(h) The facility management must provide a safe, functional, sanitary, and comfortable environment for the residents, staff and the public. The facility must:
(1) Ensure that water is available to essential areas when there is a loss of normal water supply;
(2) Have adequate outside ventilation by means of windows, or mechanical ventilation, or a combination of the two;
(3) Equip corridors with firmly secured handrails on each side; and
(4) Maintain an effective pest control program so that the facility is free of pests and rodents.
(i)(1) Incorporation by reference of these materials was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials, incorporated by reference, are available for inspection at the Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Regulation Policy and Management (02REG), 810 Vermont Avenue NW., Room 1068, Washington, DC 20420, call 202-461-4902, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(2) National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269. (For ordering information, call toll-free 1-800-344-3555.)
(i) NFPA 99, Health Care Facilities Code, Including all Gas
Vacuum System Requirements, (2012 Edition).
(ii) NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (2012 edition).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
[66 FR 33847, June 26, 2001, as amended at 76 FR 10249, Feb. 24, 2011; 80 FR 44862, July 28, 2015]
§ 59.140
Nursing home care requirements.
As a condition for receiving a grant and grant funds for a nursing home facility under this part, States must comply with the requirements of this section.
(a) Resident rooms must be designed and equipped for adequate nursing care, comfort, and privacy of residents. Resident rooms must:
(1) Accommodate no more than four residents;
(2) Have direct access to an exit corridor;
(3) Have at least one window to the outside;
(4) Be equipped with, or located near, toilet and bathing facilities (VA recommends that public toilet facilities also be located near the residents dining and recreational areas);
(5) Be at or above grade level;
(6) Be designed or equipped to ensure full visual privacy for each resident;
(7) Except in private rooms, each bed must have ceiling suspended curtains that extend around the bed to provide total visual privacy in combination with adjacent walls and curtains;
(8) Have a separate bed for each resident of proper size and height for the safety of the resident;
(9) Have a clean, comfortable mattress;
(10) Have bedding appropriate to the weather and climate;
(11) Have functional furniture appropriate to the resident's needs, and
(12) Have individual closet space with clothes racks and shelves accessible to the resident.
(b) Unless determined by VA as necessary to accommodate an increased quality of care for patients, a nursing home project may propose a deviation of no more than 10 percent (more or less) from the following net square footage for the State to be eligible for a grant of 65 percent of the total estimated cost of the project. If the project proposes building more than the following net square footage and VA makes a determination that it is not needed, the cost of the additional net square footage will not be included in the estimated total cost of construction.
Table to Paragraph (
b
)—Nursing Home
I. Support facilities [allowable square feet (or metric equivalent) per facility for VA participation]:
Administrator
200
Assistant administrator
150
Medical officer, director of nursing or equivalent
150
Nurse and dictation area
120
General administration (each office/person)
120
Clerical staff (each)
80
Computer area
40
Conference room (consultation area, in-service training)
500 (for each room)
Lobby/waiting area. (150 minimum/600 maximum per facility)
3 (per bed)
Public/resident toilets (male/female)
25 (per fixture)
Pharmacy
1
Dietetic service
1
Dining area
20 (per bed)
Canteen/retail sales
2 (per bed)
Vending machines (450 max. per facility)
1 (per bed)
Resident toilets (male/female)
25 (per fixture)
Child day care
1
Medical support (staff offices/exam/treatment room/family counseling, etc.)
140 (for each room)
Barber and/or beauty shops
140
Mail room
120
Janitor's closet
40
Multipurpose room
15 (per bed)
Employee lockers
6 (per employee)
Employee lounge (500 max. per facility)
120
Employee toilets
25 (per fixture)
Chapel
450
Physical therapy
5 (per bed)
Office, if required
120
Occupational therapy
5 (per bed).
Office, if required
120
Library
1.5 (per bed)
Building maintenance storage
2.5 (per bed)
Resident storage
6 (per bed)
General warehouse storage
6 (per bed)
Medical/dietary/pharmacy
7 (per bed)
General laundry
1
II. Bed units:
One
150
Two
245
Large two-bed per unit
305
Four
460
Lounge areas (resident lounge with storage)
8 (per bed)
Resident quiet room
3 (per bed)
Clean utility
120
Soiled utility
105
Linen storage
150
General storage
100
Nurses station, ward secretary
260
Medication room
75
Exam/Treatment room
140
Waiting area
50
Unit supply and equipment
50
Staff toilet
25 (per fixture)
Stretcher/wheelchair storage
100
Kitchenette
150
Janitor's closet
40
Resident laundry
125
Trash collection
60
III. Bathing and Toilet Facilities:
(A) Private or shared facilities:
Wheelchair facilities
25 (per fixture)
Standard facilities
15 (per fixture)
(B) Full bathroom
75
(C) Congregate bathing facilities:
First tub/shower
80
Each additional fixture
25
1
The size to be determined by the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care, as necessary to accommodate projected patient care needs (must be justified by State in space program analysis).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137; Sections 2, 3, 4, and 4a of the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, Public Law 90-480, 42 U.S.C. 4151-4157)
§ 59.150
Domiciliary care requirements.
As a condition for receiving a grant and grant funds for a domiciliary under this part, the domiciliary must meet the requirements for a nursing home specified in § 59.140 of this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137)
§ 59.160
Adult day health care requirements.
As a condition for receiving a grant and grant funds under this part for an adult day health care facility, States must meet the requirements of this section.
(a) Each adult day health care program, when it is co-located in a nursing home, domiciliary, or other care facility, must have its own separate designated space during operational hours.
(b) The indoor space for an adult day health care program must be at least 100 square feet per participant including office space for staff, and must be 60 square feet per participant excluding office space for staff.
(c) Each program will need to design and partition its space to meet its own needs, but the following functional areas must be available:
(1) A dividable multipurpose room or area for group activities, including dining, with adequate table setting space.
(2) Rehabilitation rooms or an area for individual and group treatments for occupational therapy, physical therapy, and other treatment modalities.
(3) A kitchen area for refrigerated food storage, the preparation of meals and/or training participants in activities of daily living.
(4) An examination and/or medication room.
(5) A quiet room (with at least one bed), which functions to isolate participants who become ill or disruptive, or who require rest, privacy, or observation. It should be separate from activity areas, near a restroom, and supervised.
(6) Bathing facilities adequate to facilitate bathing of participants with functional impairments.
(7) Toilet facilities and bathrooms easily accessible to people with mobility problems, including participants in wheelchairs. There must be at least one toilet for every eight participants. The toilets must be equipped for use by persons with limited mobility, easily accessible from all programs areas,
i.e.
, preferably within 40 feet from that area, designed to allow assistance from one or two staff, and barrier free.
(8) Adequate storage space. There should be space to store arts and crafts materials, personal clothing and belongings, wheelchairs, chairs, individual handiwork, and general supplies. Locked cabinets must be provided for files, records, supplies, and medications.
(9) An individual room for counseling and interviewing participants and family members.
(10) A reception area.
(11) An outside space that is used for outdoor activities that is safe, accessible to indoor areas, and accessible to those with a disability. This space may include recreational space and a garden area. It should be easily supervised by staff.
(d)
Furnishings
must be available for all participants. This must include functional furniture appropriate to the participants' needs.
(e) Unless determined by VA as necessary to accommodate an increased quality of care for patients, an adult day health care facility project may propose a deviation of no more than 10 percent (more or less) from the following net square footage for the State to be eligible for a grant of 65 percent of the total estimated cost of the project. If the project proposes building more than the following net square footage and VA makes a determination that it is not needed, the cost of the additional net square footage will not be included in the estimated total cost of construction.
Table to Paragraph (
e
)—Adult Day Health Care
I. Support facilities [allowable square feet (or metric equivalent) per facility for VA participation]:
Program Director
200
Assistant administrator
150
Medical officer, director of nursing or equivalent
150
Nurse and dictation area
120
General administration (each office/person)
120
Clerical staff (each)
80
Computer area
40
Conference room (consultation area, in-service training)
500 (for each room).
Lobby/receiving/waiting area (150 minimum)
3 (per participant)
Public/resident toilets (male/female)
25 (per fixture).
Dining area (may be included in the multipurpose room)
20 (per participant).
Vending machines
1 (per participant).
Participant toilets (male/female)
25 (per fixture).
Medical support (staff offices/family counseling, etc.)
140 (for each room).
Janitor's closet
40
Dividable multipurpose room
15 (per participant).
Employee lockers
6 (per employee)
Employee lounge
120
Employee toilets
25 (per fixture).
Physical therapy
5 (per participant).
Office, if required
120
Occupational therapy
5 (per participant).
Office, if required
120
Building maintenance storage
2.5 (per participant).
Resident storage
6 (per participant).
General warehouse storage
6 (per participant).
Medical/dietary
7 (per participant).
General laundry
1
II. Other Areas:
Participant quiet room
3 (per participant).
Clean utility
120
Soiled utility
105
General storage
100
Nurses station, ward secretary
260
Medication/exam/treatment rooms
75
Waiting area
50
Program supply and equipment
50
Staff toilet
25 (per fixture).
Wheelchair storage
100
Kitchen
120
Janitor's closet
40
Resident laundry
125
Trash collection
60
III. Bathing and Toilet Facilities:
(A) Private or shared facilities:
Wheelchair facilities
25 (per fixture).
Standard facilities
15 (per fixture).
(B) Full bathroom
75
1
The size to be determined by the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care, as necessary to accommodate projected patient care needs (must be justified by State in space program analysis).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137; Sections 2, 3, 4, and 4a of the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, Public Law 90-480, 42 U.S.C. 4151-4157)
§ 59.170
Forms.
All forms required by this part are available on the internet at “
http://www.va.gov/forms/”
for VA Forms and at “
http://www.gsa.gov”
for Standard Forms, or at the Veterans Health Administration, Room 789, 810 Vermont Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20420.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1710, 1742, 8105, 8131-8137, Section 2, 3, 4, and 4a of the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended, Pub. L. 90-480, 42 U.S.C. 4151-4157)
[73 FR 58880, Oct. 8, 2008]
Pt. 60

# PART 60—FISHER HOUSES AND OTHER TEMPORARY LODGING
Sec.
60.1
Purpose and scope.
60.2
Definitions.
60.3
Other donated temporary lodging.
60.10
Eligibility criteria for Fisher House or other temporary lodging.
60.15
Process for requesting Fisher House or other temporary lodging.
60.20
Duration of Fisher House or other temporary lodging.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 501, 1708.

# Source:
77 FR 59089, Sept. 26, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.1
Purpose and scope.
This part applies to Fisher House and other temporary lodging furnished by VA while a veteran is experiencing an episode of care at a VA health care facility.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1708)
§ 60.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Accompanying individual
means an individual seeking Fisher House or other temporary lodging, who provides familial support or the equivalent of familial support, to a veteran while the veteran is experiencing an episode of care. This term is defined broadly to include relatives, close friends, and caregivers.
Compensation and pension examination
means an examination requested by VA's Veterans Benefits Administration to be conducted at a VA health care facility for the purpose of evaluating a veteran's claim.
Episode of care
means a course of outpatient treatment, or a period of hospitalization, during which a veteran receives health care under 38 U.S.C. chapter 17, or 38 U.S.C. 8111 or 8153. Examples of episodes of care include (but are not limited to) the following:
(1) An appointment at a VA health care facility to receive health care or a compensation and pension examination.
(2) Extended outpatient treatment, such as treatment associated with organ transplant, chemotherapy, or radiation.
(3) Hospitalization for a critical injury or illness; where death is imminent; or where a veteran is unable to make medical decisions for him/herself and the accompanying individual is authorized to make such decisions on the veteran's behalf.
Fisher House
means a housing facility that is located at or near a VA health
care facility and was constructed by and donated to VA by the Fisher House Foundation (formerly the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Armed Services Foundation), or a facility that is treated as if it were Fisher House lodging under § 60.3.
Other temporary lodging
includes:
(1) Lodging at a temporary lodging facility, other than a Fisher House, located at a VA health care facility (generally referred to as a “hoptel”);
(2) A hotel or motel;
(3) Non-utilized beds at a VA health care facility designated as lodging beds; and
(4) Other donated lodging to be used on a temporary basis in accordance with 38 U.S.C. 1708.
VA
means the Department of Veterans Affairs.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1708)
§ 60.3
Other donated temporary lodging.
Whenever VA receives, from a source other than the Fisher House Foundation, an undesignated donation of lodging to be used on a temporary basis, the lodging will be designated as if it were Fisher House lodging or be treated as other temporary lodging based upon the types of lodging available in the area. If VA receives a gift that specifies the terms of the lodging provided, VA will use the lodging provided in the manner specified by the donor.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1708, 8103, 8104)
§ 60.10
Eligibility criteria for Fisher House or other temporary lodging.
(a)
General.
While a veteran is undergoing an episode of care, VA may provide either Fisher House or other temporary lodging, as appropriate, if the request meets the requirements of this part 60. These are the only types of lodging provided by VA under this part. Note: Lodging provided for under this part will not be used by a person participating in a VA residential treatment program, or as a substitute for participation in such a program.
(b)
Eligible persons
—(1)
Fisher House.
VA may provide Fisher House lodging to accompanying individual(s) and, in limited circumstances of immediate need and no alternative temporary lodging, to a veteran with one or more accompanying individual(s). Fisher House lodging will not be used to lodge unaccompanied veterans or individuals in need of transitional or permanent housing.

# Note:
VA does not impose a general limit on the number of persons who may accompany a veteran, but VA may in specific cases provide lodging to only a specific number of persons due to space or resource limitations.
(2)
Other temporary lodging.
VA may provide other temporary lodging to a veteran or to a veteran and his or her accompanying individual(s). Accompanying individuals may not stay in other temporary lodging unless the veteran is also staying in temporary lodging.

# Note:
VA does not impose a general limit on the number of persons who may accompany a veteran, but VA may in specific cases provide lodging to only a specific number of persons due to space or resource limitations.
(c)
Condition of the veteran.
Fisher House or other temporary lodging will not be provided to a veteran unless the VA official reviewing the request determines, based on the request and on any necessary clinical information, that the veteran is:
(1) Medically stable and capable of self-care; or
(2) Accompanied by an individual who is able to provide all necessary care.
(d)
Travel time/distance requirement.
Fisher House or other temporary lodging may be provided only if the applicant seeking lodging must travel at least 50 miles, or for 2 hours, from his or her home to the VA health care facility. VA may waive these requirements based on exceptional circumstances, such as when the physical condition of an accompanying individual and/or the veteran, inclement weather, road conditions, or the mode of transportation, make it difficult or dangerous to travel to or return from the VA health care facility without an overnight stay.
(e)
Special authority for organ transplant cases.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, VA may provide Fisher House or other temporary lodging for individuals who must be present on site for evaluation, donation, and
care related to their status as an organ donor for a veteran. VA may also provide Fisher House or other temporary lodging for the donor's accompanying individuals at all phases of the transplant process.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1708, 1710(a))
[77 FR 59089, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 26594, June 8, 2017]
§ 60.15
Process for requesting Fisher House or other temporary lodging.
(a)
Submitting requests.
An accompanying individual requesting Fisher House or other temporary lodging must contact directly the provider, social worker, case manager, or Fisher House Manager at the veteran's VA health care facility of jurisdiction. Upon receiving a request, VA will determine the accompanying individual's eligibility for the requested housing, as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(b)
Processing requests.
(1) Requests for all temporary housing are generally processed in the order that they are received by VA, and temporary lodging is then granted on a first come, first served basis; however, in extraordinary circumstances, such as imminent death, critical injury, or organ donation, requests may be processed out of order.
(2) Temporary lodging is granted on a space-available basis, with some consideration given to the compatibility of the applicant(s) and the room(s) available. For example, although VA may require an applicant to share a room with another veteran's accompanying individual, VA would not do so if the persons affected are not the same gender.
(3) Temporary lodging at a VA health care facility, such as non-utilized beds in a VA health care facility, may be made available only if not barred by law and if the Director of the VA health care facility determines that such action would not have a negative impact on patient care. Non-utilized beds provided to accompanying individuals must be reassigned to VA patients when necessary.
(4) The Director of the VA health care facility of jurisdiction will determine whether local funding is sufficient to allow the use of temporary lodging in hotels and motels.
(5) Subject to all criteria provided in this part, the person responsible for coordinating the Fisher House and other temporary lodging program(s) at the VA health care facility of jurisdiction is responsible for making decisions to grant temporary lodging. These decisions are considered to be final VA decisions concerning individual medical treatment plans and the scheduling and use of VA lodging facilities, and they are not appealable to the Board of Veterans' Appeals.
(6) If VA denies a request for one type of lodging, such as at a Fisher House, the request will be considered for other temporary lodging and vice versa, if the requester is eligible.
(7) If VA denies a request for temporary lodging, VA will refer the request to a VA social worker at the VA health care facility of jurisdiction to determine if other arrangements can be made.
(c) Costs for Fisher House and other temporary lodging under this part are borne by VA.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under OMB control number 2900-0630)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1708)
[77 FR 59089, Sept. 26, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 26594, June 8, 2017; 82 FR 35905, Aug. 2, 2017]
§ 60.20
Duration of Fisher House or other temporary lodging.
Fisher House or other temporary lodging may be awarded for the following periods:
(a) While the veteran is undergoing an episode of care.
(b) While the veteran is hospitalized, if the veteran is admitted to a VA health care facility while undergoing an outpatient episode of care for which temporary lodging was already provided.
(c) As extended by the appropriate VA clinician or social worker based on an emergency situation or unforeseen circumstances.
(d) For an indefinite period for accompanying individuals who are visiting veterans hospitalized for an indefinite period, provided that the accompanying individual is not using a VA health care facility bed. Whether a veteran is hospitalized for an indefinite period will be based upon the treatment or rehabilitation needs of the veteran as determined by the veteran's health care team.
(e) Temporary lodging may be furnished the night before the day of a scheduled appointment if, the veteran leaving home after 8:00 a.m., would be unable to arrive at the VA health care facility by the time of the scheduled appointment.
(f) Temporary lodging may be furnished the night of the scheduled appointment if, after the appointment, the veteran would be unable to return home before 7:00 p.m. When a veteran is undergoing outpatient treatment or procedures the veteran and accompanying individual(s) may be furnished temporary lodging for the duration of the episode of care subject to limitations described in this section.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 1708)
Pt. 61

# PART 61—VA HOMELESS PROVIDERS GRANT AND PER DIEM PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
61.0
Purpose.
61.1
Definitions.
61.2
Supportive services—general.
61.3
Notice of Fund Availability.
61.4
Definition of capital lease.
61.5
Implementation of VA Limits on Payments due to Funding Restrictions.

# Subpart B—Capital Grants
61.10
Capital grants—general.
61.11
Capital grants—application packages.
61.12
Capital grant application packages—threshold requirements.
61.13
Capital grant application packages—rating criteria.
61.14
Capital grants—selection of grantees.
61.15
Capital grants—obtaining additional information and awarding capital grants.
61.16
Matching funds for capital grants.
61.17
Site control for capital grants.
61.18
Capital grants for vans.
61.19
Transfer of capital grants.

# Subpart C—Per Diem Payments
61.30
Per diem—general.
61.31
Per diem—application packages.
61.32
Per diem application packages—rating criteria.
61.33
Payment of per diem.

# Subpart D—Special Need Grants
61.40
Special need grants—general.
61.41
Special need grants—application packages and threshold requirements.
61.44
Awarding special need grants and payment of special need per diem.

# Subpart E—Technical Assistance Grants
61.50
Technical assistance grants—general.
61.51
Technical assistance grants—application packages.
61.52
Technical assistance grant application packages—threshold requirements.
61.53
Technical assistance grant application packages—rating criteria.
61.54
Awarding technical assistance grants.
61.55
Technical assistance reports.

# Subpart F—Awards, Monitoring, and Enforcement of Agreements
61.61
Agreement and funding actions.
61.62
Program changes.
61.63
Procedural error.
61.64
Faith-based organizations.
61.65
Inspections.
61.66
Financial management.
61.67
Recovery provisions.
61.80
General operation requirements for supportive housing and service centers.
61.81
Outreach activities.
61.82
Participant fees for supportive housing.

# Subpart G—Case Management Services Grant Program
61.90
Grant for case management services—program.
61.92
Grant for case management services—application and rating criteria.
61.94
Grant for case management services—selection of grantees.
61.96
Grant for case management services—awards.
61.98
Grant for case management services—requirements and oversight.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 501, 2001, 2002, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2061, 2064.

# Source:
78 FR 12604, Feb. 25, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 61.0
Purpose.
This part implements the VA Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem Program which consists of the following components: capital grants, per diem, special need capital and non-capital grants, and technical assistance grants.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2001, 2002, 2011, 2012, 2061, 2064)
§ 61.1
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Area or community
means a political subdivision or contiguous political subdivisions (such as a precinct, ward, borough, city, county, State, Congressional district, etc.) with a separately identifiable population of homeless veterans.
Capital grant
means a grant for construction, renovation, or acquisition of a facility, or a grant for acquisition of a van.
Capital lease
is defined by § 61.4.
Chronically mentally ill
means a condition of schizophrenia or major affective disorder (including bipolar disorder) or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), based on a diagnosis from a licensed mental health professional, with at least one documented hospitalization for this condition sometime in the last 2 years or with documentation of a formal assessment on a standardized scale of any serious symptomatology or serious impairment in the areas of work, family relations, thinking, or mood.
Default
means a determination by VA that an awardee has materially failed to comply with the terms and conditions of an award.
Fixed site
means a physical structure that under normal conditions is not capable of readily being moved from one location to another location.
Frail elderly
means 65 years of age or older with one or more chronic health problems and limitations in performing one or more activities of daily living (such as bathing, toileting, transferring from bed to chair, etc.).
Homeless
has the meaning given that term in section 103 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11302(a)).
New construction
means building a structure where none existed, or building an addition to an existing structure that increases the floor area by more than 100 percent.
Nonprofit organization
means a private organization, no part of the net earnings of which may inure to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual. The organization must be recognized as a section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) nonprofit organization by the United States Internal Revenue Service, and meet all of the following criteria:
(1) Have a voluntary board;
(2) Have a functioning accounting system that is operated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or designate an entity to maintain such a functioning accounting system; and
(3) Practice nondiscrimination in the provision of supportive housing and supportive services assistance.
Notice of Fund Availability (NOFA)
means a notice published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 61.60.
Operating costs
means expenses incurred in operating supportive housing, supportive services or service centers with respect to:
(1) Administration (including staff salaries; costs associated with accounting for the use of grant funds, preparing reports for submission to VA, obtaining program audits, and securing accreditation; and similar costs related to administering the grant after the award), maintenance, repair and security for the supportive housing;
(2) Van costs or building rent (except under capital leases), e.g., fuel, insurance, utilities, furnishings, and equipment;
(3) Conducting on-going assessments of supportive services provided for and needed by participants and the availability of such services; and
(4) Other costs associated with operating the supportive housing.
Operational
means a program for which all VA inspection requirements under this part have been met and an activation document has been issued by the VA National GPD Program.
Outpatient health services
means outpatient health care, outpatient mental
health services, outpatient alcohol and/or substance abuse services, and case management.
Participant
means a person receiving services based on a grant or per diem provided under this part.
Participant agreement
means any written or implied agreement between a grant recipient agency and a program participant that outlines the requirements for program compliance, participant or service delivery.
Project
means all activities that define the parameters of the purpose of the grant.
Public entity
means any of the following:
(1) A county, municipality, city, town, township, local public authority (including any public and Indian housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937), school district, special district, intrastate district, council of governments (whether or not incorporated as a nonprofit corporation under state law), any other regional or interstate government entity, or any agency or instrumentality of a local government; or
(2) The governing body or a governmental agency of any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community (including any Native village as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 85 Stat 688) certified by the Secretary of the Interior as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Recipient
means the entity whose employer or taxpayer identification number is on the Application for Federal Assistance (SF 424) and is consequently responsible to comply with all terms and conditions of the award. For the purpose of this part the terms “grantee,” “recipient,” and “awardee” are synonymous and interchangeable.
Rehabilitation
means the improvement or repair of an existing structure. Rehabilitation does not include minor or routine repairs.
State
means any of the several states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a state exclusive of local governments. The term does not include any public and Indian housing agency under United States Housing Act of 1937.
Supportive housing
means housing with supportive services provided for homeless veterans that:
(1) Is not shelter care, other emergent housing, or housing designed to be permanent or long term (more than 24 months), with no requirement to move; and
(2) Is designed to either:
(i) Facilitate the movement of homeless veterans to permanent housing as soon as possible but no later than 24 months, subject to § 61.80; or
(ii) Provide specific medical treatment such as detoxification, respite, or hospice treatments that are used as step-up or step-down programs within that specific project's continuum.
Supportive services
has the meaning assigned to it under § 61.2.
Terminally ill
means a prognosis of 9 months or less to live, based on a written medical diagnosis from a physician.
Total project cost
means the sum of all costs incurred by a recipient for the acquisition, rehabilitation, and new construction of a facility, or van(s), identified in a grant application.
VA
means the Department of Veterans Affairs.
VA National GPD Program
refers to the VA Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem Program.
Veteran
means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, regardless of length of service, and who was discharged or released therefrom. Veteran excludes a person who received a dishonorable discharge from the Armed Forces or was discharged or dismissed from the Armed Forces by reason of the sentence of a general court-martial. The length of service restrictions under 38 U.S.C. 5303A do not apply.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2002, 2011, 2012, 2061, 2064)
[78 FR 12604, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 82 FR 51160, Nov. 3, 2017; 86 FR 33523, June 25, 2021]
§ 61.2
Supportive services—general.
(a) Recipients must design supportive services. Such services must provide
appropriate assistance, or aid participants in obtaining appropriate assistance, to address the needs of homeless veterans. The following are examples of supportive services:
(1) Outreach activities;
(2) Providing food, nutritional advice, counseling, health care, mental health treatment, alcohol and other substance abuse services, case management services;
(3) Establishing and operating child care services for dependents of homeless veterans;
(4) Providing supervision and security arrangements necessary for the protection of residents of supportive housing and for homeless veterans using supportive housing or services;
(5) Assistance in obtaining permanent housing;
(6) Education, employment counseling and assistance, and job training;
(7) Assistance in obtaining other Federal, State and local assistance available for such residents including mental health benefits, employment counseling and assistance, veterans' benefits, medical assistance, and income support assistance; and
(8) Providing housing assistance, legal assistance, advocacy, transportation, and other services essential for achieving and maintaining independent living.
(b) Supportive services do not include inpatient acute hospital care.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061)
§ 61.3
Notice of Fund Availability.
When funds are made available for a grant or per diem award under this part, VA will publish a Notice of Fund Availability in the
Federal Register.
The notice will:
(a) Give the location for obtaining application packages;
(b) Specify the date, time, and place for submitting completed applications;
(c) State the estimated amount and type of funding available; and
(d) State any priorities for or exclusions from funding to meet the statutory mandate of 38 U.S.C. 2011, to ensure that awards do not result in the duplication of ongoing services and to reflect the maximum extent practicable appropriate geographic dispersion and an appropriate balance between urban and nonurban locations.
(e) Provide other information necessary for the application process, such as the grant period, where applicable.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061, 2064)
§ 61.4
Definition of capital lease.
A capital lease, for purposes of this part, means a conditional sales contract that either:
(a) Will be in effect for all of the period of recovery listed in § 61.67(b); or
(b) That satisfies one of the following criteria:
(1) The lease transfers ownership to the lessee at the expiration of the lease term.
(2) The lease contains a bargain purchase option.
(3) The present value of lease payments that are applied to the purchase are equal to or greater than 90 percent of the fair market value of the asset.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061, 2064)
§ 61.5
Implementation of VA Limits on Payments due to Funding Restrictions.
(a)
Continuing payments.
Once a grant agreement is awarded by VA, payments will continue for the time frame specified in the federal award, subject to the availability of funds, as long as the recipient continues to provide the supportive services and housing described in its grant application, meets VA's Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem (GPD) Program performance goals, and meets the applicable requirements of this part.
(b)
Factors.
(1) In cases of limited availability of funding during the time frame specified in the federal award, VA may terminate the payment of per diem payments to recipients after weighing the following factors:
(i) Non-duplication of ongoing services and equitable distribution of grant agreements across geographic regions, including rural communities and tribal lands;
(ii) Receipt by recipient of any capital investment from VA or any other source; and
(iii) Recipient's demonstrated compliance with GPD performance goals.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, when an awarded grant agreement is terminated during the time frame specified in the federal award due to no fault by the recipient, VA shall refrain from applying the recapture provisions of 38 CFR 61.67.
[86 FR 33523, June 25, 2021]

# Subpart B—Capital Grants
§ 61.10
Capital grants—general.
(a) Subject to the availability of appropriations provided for such purpose, VA will provide capital grants to public or nonprofit private entities so they can assist homeless veterans by helping to ensure the availability of supportive housing and service centers to furnish outreach, rehabilitative services, and vocational counseling and training. Specifically, VA provides capital grants for up to 65 percent of the cost to:
(1) Construct structures and purchase the underlying land to establish new supportive housing facilities or service centers, or to expand existing supportive housing facilities or service centers;
(2) Acquire structures to establish new supportive housing facilities or service centers, or to expand existing supportive housing facilities or service centers;
(3) Renovate existing structures to establish new supportive housing facilities or service centers, or to expand existing supportive housing facilities or service centers; and
(4) Procure a van in accordance with § 61.18, Capital grants for vans.
(b) Capital grants may not be used for acquiring buildings located on VA-owned property. However, capital grants may be awarded for construction, expansion, or renovation of buildings located on VA-owned property.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)
§ 61.11
Capital grants—application packages.
(a)
General.
To apply for a capital grant, an applicant must obtain from, complete, and submit to VA a capital grant application package within the time period established in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(b)
Content of application.
The capital grant application package will require the following:
(1) Site description, site design, and site cost estimates.
(2) Documentation supporting:
(i) Eligibility to receive a capital grant under this part;
(ii) Matching funds committed to the project;
(iii) A proposed operating budget and cost sharing;
(iv) Supportive services committed to the project;
(v) The applicant's authority to control the site and meet appropriate zoning laws; and
(vi) The boundaries of the area or community that would be served.
(3) If capital grant funds would be used for acquisition or rehabilitation, documentation demonstrating that the costs associated with acquisition or rehabilitation are less than the costs associated with new construction.
(4) If capital grant funds would be used for new construction, documentation demonstrating that the costs associated with new construction are less than the costs associated with rehabilitation of an existing building, that there is a lack of available appropriate units that could be rehabilitated at a cost less than new construction, and that new construction is less costly than acquisition of an existing building (for purposes of this cost comparison, costs associated with rehabilitation or new construction may include the cost of real property acquisition).
(5) If proposed construction includes demolition:
(i) A demolition plan that describes the extent and cost of existing site features to be removed, stored, or relocated; and
(ii) Information establishing that the proposed construction is either in the same location as the building to be demolished or that the demolition is inextricably linked to the design of the construction project. Without such information, the cost of demolition cannot be included in the cost of construction.
(6) If the applicant is a state, comments or recommendations by appropriate state (and area wide) clearinghouses pursuant to E.O. 12372 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 197).
(7) A statement from the applicant that all of the following are true:
(i) The project will furnish to veterans the level of care for which such application is made, and services provided will meet the requirements of this part.
(ii) The applicant will continue to operate the project until the expiration of the period during which VA could seek full recovery under § 61.67.
(iii) Title to the site will vest solely in the applicant and the applicant will insure the site to the same extent they would insure a site bought with their own funds.
(iv) Adequate financial support will be available for the completion of the project.
(v) The applicant will keep records and submit reports as VA may reasonably require, within the time frames required, and, upon demand, allow VA access to the records upon which such information is based.
(vi) The applicant will state that no more than 25 percent of the grant-awarded beds are occupied by non-veterans.
(c)
Multiple capital grant applications.
Subject to § 61.12(i), applicants may apply for more than one capital grant.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)
§ 61.12
Capital grant application packages—threshold requirements.
The following threshold requirements for a capital grant application must be met, or the application will be rejected before being rated under § 61.13:
(a) The application package must meet all of the following criteria:
(1) Be on the correct application form.
(2) Be completed in all parts, including all information requested in the Notice of Fund Availability and application package.
(3) Include a signed Application for Federal Assistance (SF 424) that contains the Employer Identification Number or Taxpayer Identification Number (EIN/TIN) that corresponds to the applicant's Internal Revenue Service (IRS) 501(c)(3) or (19) determination letter. All applicants must provide such an IRS determination letter, which includes their EIN/TIN. Applicants that apply under a group EIN/TIN must be identified by the parent EIN/TIN as a member or sub-unit of the parent EIN/TIN and provide supporting documentation.
(4) Be submitted before the deadline established in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(b) The applicant must be a public or nonprofit private entity at the time of application.
(c) The activities for which assistance is requested must be eligible for funding under this part.
(d) The applicant must demonstrate that adequate financial support will be available to carry out the project for which the capital grant is sought, consistent with the plans, specifications, and schedule submitted by the applicant.
(e) The application must demonstrate compliance with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601-4655).
(f) The applicant must agree to comply with the requirements of this part and demonstrate the capacity to do so.
(g) The applicant must not have an outstanding obligation to VA that is in arrears, or have an overdue or unsatisfactory response to an audit.
(h) The applicant must not have been notified by VA as being in default.
(i) The applicant, during the 5 years preceding the date of the application, must not have done any of the following:
(1) Had more than two grants awarded under this part that remain in development;
(2) Failed to establish two previous awarded grant projects under this part; or
(3) Had a previous grant or per diem project awarded under this part terminated or transferred to another eligible
entity for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the award.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)
§ 61.13
Capital grant application packages—rating criteria.
(a)
General.
Applicants that meet the threshold requirements in § 61.12 will be rated using the selection criteria listed in this section. To be eligible for a capital grant, an applicant must receive at least 750 points (out of a possible 1000) and must receive points under each of the following paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section.
(b)
Project plan.
VA will award up to 300 points based on the demonstration and quality of the following:
(1) The selection of the proposed housing in light of the population to be served.
(2) The process used for deciding which veterans are appropriate for admission.
(3) How, when, and by whom the progress of participants toward meeting their individual goals will be monitored, evaluated, and documented.
(4) The role program participants will have in operating and maintaining the housing.
(5) The responsibilities the applicant, sponsors, or contractors will have in operating and maintaining the housing.
(6) The supportive services that will be provided and by whom to help participants achieve residential stability, increase skill level and/or income, and become involved in making life decisions that will increase self-determination.
(7) The measurable objectives that will be used to determine success of the supportive services.
(8) How the success of the program will be evaluated on an ongoing basis.
(9) How the nutritional needs of veterans will be met.
(10) How the agency will ensure a clean and sober environment.
(11) How participants will be assisted in assimilating into the community through access to neighborhood facilities, activities, and services.
(12) How the proposed project will be implemented in a timely fashion.
(13) How permanent affordable housing will be identified and made known to participants upon leaving the supportive housing.
(14) How participants will be provided necessary follow-up services.
(15) The description of program policies regarding participant agreements, rent, and fees.
(c)
Outreach to persons on streets and in shelters.
VA will award up to 100 points based on:
(1) The agency's outreach plan to serve homeless veterans living in places not ordinarily meant for human habitation (e.g., streets, parks, abandoned buildings, automobiles, under bridges, in transportation facilities) and those who reside in emergency shelters; and
(2) The likelihood that proposed plans for outreach and selection of participants will result in these populations being served.
(d)
Ability of applicant to develop and operate a project.
VA will award up to 200 points based on the extent to which the application demonstrates the necessary staff and organizational experience to complete and operate the proposed project, based on the following:
(1) Staffing plan for the project that reflects the appropriate professional staff, both administrative and clinical;
(2) Experience of staff, if staff not yet hired, position descriptions and expectations of time to hire;
(3) Amount of time each staff position is dedicated to the project, and in what capacity;
(4) Applicant's previous experience assessing and providing for the housing needs of homeless veterans;
(5) Applicant's previous experience assessing and providing supportive services for homeless veterans;
(6) Applicant's previous experience assessing supportive service resources and entitlement benefits;
(7) Applicant's previous experience with evaluating the progress of both individual participants and overall program effectiveness using quality and performance data to make changes;
(8) Applicant's previous experience operating housing for homeless individuals;
(9) Overall agency organizational overview (org. chart); and
(10) Historical documentation of past performance both with VA and non-VA projects, including those from other Federal, state and local agencies and audits by private or public entities.
(e)
Need.
VA will award up to 150 points based on the extent to which the applicant demonstrates:
(1) Substantial unmet needs, particularly among the target population living in places not ordinarily meant for human habitation such as the streets, emergency shelters, based on reliable data from surveys of homeless populations or other reports or data gathering mechanisms that directly support claims made; and
(2) An understanding of the homeless population to be served and its unmet housing and supportive service needs.
(f)
Completion confidence.
VA will award up to 50 points based on the review panel's confidence that the applicant has effectively demonstrated the supportive housing or service center project will be completed as described in the application. VA may use historical program documents of past performance both VA and non-VA, including those from other Federal, state and local agencies as well as audits by private or public entities in determining confidence scores.
(g)
Coordination with other programs.
VA will award up to 200 points based on the extent to which applicants demonstrate that they have coordinated with Federal, state, local, private and other entities serving homeless persons in the planning and operation of the project. Such entities may include shelter transitional housing, health care, or social service providers; providers funded through Federal initiatives; local planning coalitions or provider associations; or other program providers relevant to the needs of homeless veterans in the local community. Applicants are required to demonstrate that they have coordinated with the VA medical care facility of jurisdiction and/or VA Regional Office of jurisdiction in their area. VA will award up to 50 points of the 200 points based on the extent to which commitments to provide supportive services are documented at the time of application. Up to 150 points of the 200 points will be given to the extent applicants demonstrate that:
(1) They are part of an ongoing community-wide planning process within the framework described above which is designed to share information on available resources and reduce duplication among programs that serve homeless veterans;
(2) They have consulted directly with the closest VA Medical Center and other providers within the framework described above regarding coordination of services for project participants; and
(3) They have coordinated with the closest VA Medical Center their plan to assure access to health care, case management, and other care services.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)
§ 61.14
Capital grants—selection of grantees.
(a) Applicants will first be grouped in categories according to the funding priorities set forth in the NOFA, if any. Applicants will then be ranked, within their respective funding category if applicable. The highest-ranked applications for which funding is available, within highest priority funding category if applicable, will be conditionally selected to receive a capital grant in accordance with their ranked order, as determined under § 61.13. If funding priorities have been established and funds are still available after selection of those applicants in the highest priority group VA will continue to conditionally select applicants in lower priority categories in accordance with the selection method set forth in this paragraph subject to available funding.
(b) In the event of a tie between applicants, VA will use the score from § 61.13(g) to determine the ranking. If the score from § 61.13(g) is also tied, VA will use the score from § 61.13(d) to determine the ranking.
(c) VA may reject an application where the project is not cost effective based on the cost and number of new supportive housing beds made available—or based on the cost, amount, and types of supportive services made available—when compared to other supportive housing or services projects, and when adjusted for high cost areas.
For those applications that VA believes not to be cost-effective VA will;
(1) Reduce the award; or
(2) Not select the application for funding.
(d) VA may not reject an application solely on the basis that the entity proposes to use funding from other private or public sources, if the entity demonstrates that a private nonprofit organization will provide oversight and site control for the project. In this section “private nonprofit organization” means one of the following:
(1) An incorporated private institution, organization, or foundation—
(i) That has received, or has temporary clearance to receive, tax-exempt status under paragraph (2), (3), or (19) of section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
(ii) For which no part of the net earnings of the institution, organization, or foundation inures to the benefit of any member, founder, or contributor of the institution, organization, or foundation; and
(iii) That VA determines is financially responsible.
(2) A for-profit limited partnership or limited liability company, the sole general partner or manager of which is an organization that is described by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(3) A corporation wholly owned and controlled by an organization that is described by paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(e) In the case of a previously awarded project that can no longer provide services and or housing and the recipient agency has decided to withdraw or the project has been terminated for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the award; VA may transfer a capital grant or non-capital grant to another eligible entity in the same geographical area without competition, in order to prevent a loss of capacity of services and housing to homeless veterans. The new entity must meet all of the requirements to which the original grantee was subject. In the case of a capital grant transfer the new grantee will only be entitled to the funding that remains from the original capital obligation and remains responsible for all commitments made by the original grantee.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)
§ 61.15
Capital grants—obtaining additional information and awarding capital grants.
(a) Each applicant who has been conditionally selected for a capital grant will be requested by VA to submit additional documentation or information as necessary, including:
(1) Any additional information necessary to show that the project is feasible, including a plan from an architect, contractor, or other building professional who provides estimated costs for the proposed design;
(2) Documentation showing the sources of funding for the project and firm financing commitments for the matching requirements described in § 61.16;
(3) Documentation establishing site control described in § 61.17;
(4) Documentation establishing compliance with the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470);
(5) Information necessary for VA to ensure compliance both with Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) and the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines;
(6) Documentation establishing compliance with local and state zoning codes;
(7) Documentation in the form of one set of design development (35 percent completion) drawings demonstrating compliance with local codes, state codes, and the current Life Safety Code of the National Fire Protection Association.
(8) Information necessary for VA to ensure compliance with the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321
et seq.
);
(9) A site survey performed by a licensed land surveyor; and
(10) Such other documentation as specified by VA in writing or verbally to the applicant to confirm or clarify information provided in the application.
(b) Items requested under paragraph (a) of this section must be received by VA in acceptable form within the time frame established in accordance with the Notice of Fund Availability.
(c) Following receipt of the additional information in acceptable form, VA will execute an agreement and make payments to the grant recipient in accordance with § 61.61 and other applicable provisions of this part.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)
§ 61.16
Matching funds for capital grants.
(a) VA cannot award a capital grant for more than 65 percent of the total allowable costs of the project. The grantee must provide funding (“matching funding”) for the remaining 35 percent of the total cost, using non-federal funds. VA requires that applicants provide documentation of all costs related to the project including those that are not allowable under the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards under 2 CFR part 200. Allowable costs means those related to the portion (percentage) of the property that would be used to provide supportive housing and services under this part.
(b) Capital grants may include application costs, including site surveys, architectural, and engineering fees, but may not include relocation costs or developer's fees.
(c)
Documentation of matching funds.
The matching funds described in paragraph (a) of this section must be documented as follows; no other format will be accepted as evidence of a firm commitment of matching funds:
(1) Donations must be on the donor's letterhead, signed and dated.
(2) The applicant's own cash must be committed on the applicant's letterhead, signed, and dated.
(3) No conditions may be placed on the matching funds other than the organization's receipt of the capital grant.
(4) Funds must be committed to the same activity as the capital grant application (
i.e.
, acquisition, renovation, new construction, or a van), and must not relate to operating costs or services.
(5) The value of matching funds must be for a cost that is included in the calculation of the total project cost, thereby decreasing the total expenditures of the grantee.
(d)
Van applications.
The requirements of this section also apply to applications for a capital grant for a van under § 61.18.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)
[78 FR 12604, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 43323, July 22, 2015]
§ 61.17
Site control for capital grants.
(a) In order to receive a capital grant for supportive housing or a fixed site service center, an applicant must demonstrate site control. Site control must be demonstrated through a deed or an executed contract of sale, or a capital lease, which assigns control or ownership to the entity whose Federal employer or taxpayer identification number is on the Application for Federal Assistance (SF424), unless one of the following apply:
(1) VA gives written permission for an alternate assignment. VA will permit alternate assignments except when:
(i) The alternate assignment is to a for-profit entity which is neither controlled by the applicant or by the applicant's parent organization or the entity is controlled by the applicant's parent organization which is a for-profit entity; or
(ii) VA has a reasonable concern that the assignment may provide an economic or monetary benefit to the assignee other than the benefit that would have inured to the applicant had the applicant not made the alternate assignment.
(2) The site is in a building or on land owned by VA, and the applicant has an agreement with VA for site control.
(b) A capital grant recipient may change the site to a new site meeting the requirements of this part subject to VA approval under § 61.62. However, the recipient is responsible for and must demonstrate ability to provide for any additional costs resulting from the change in site.
(c) If site control is not demonstrated within 1 year after execution of an agreement under § 61.61, the grantee
may request a reasonable extension from the VA national GPD office, or the grant may be terminated. VA will authorize an extension request if the grantee was not at fault for being unable to exercise site control and the lack of site control does not affect the grantee's ability to complete the project.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)
§ 61.18
Capital grants for vans.
(a)
General.
A capital grant may be used to procure one or more vans, as stated in a NOFA, to provide transportation or outreach for the purpose of providing supportive services. The grant may cover the purchase price, sales taxes, and title and licensing fees. Title to the van must vest solely in the applicant, and the applicant must insure the van to the same extent they would insure a van bought with their own funds.
(b)
Who can apply for a van.
VA will only award vans to applicants who currently have an operational grant under this part, or in conjunction with a new application.
(c)
Application packages for van(s).
In order to receive a van, the application must demonstrate the following:
(1) Clear need for the van(s);
(2) Specific use of the van(s);
(3) Frequency of use of the van(s);
(4) Qualifications of the van driver(s);
(5) Training of the van driver(s);
(6) Type of van(s) to be obtained; and
(7) Adequate financial support will be available for the completion of the project or for the purchase and maintenance, repair, and operation of the van(s).
(d)
Rating criteria.
Applications will be scored using the selection criteria listed in this section. To be eligible for a van grant, an applicant must receive at least 80 points (out of a possible 100) of this section.
(1)
Need.
VA will award up to 60 points based on the extent to which the applicant demonstrates a substantial unmet need for transportation due to:
(i) Lack of alternative public transportation,
(ii) Project location,
(iii) Expired life use of current van, or
(iv) Special disabled individual transportation.
(2)
Activity.
VA will award up to 20 points based on the extent to which the applicant demonstrates:
(i) Frequency of use,
(ii) Type of use, and
(iii) Type of van, e.g., whether there is a justification for a van with a wheelchair lift or other modifications.
(3)
Operator qualification.
VA will award up to 20 points based on the extent to which the applicant demonstrates a job description for the van operator that details:
(i) Requirements of the position, and
(ii) Training that will be provided to the driver.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)
§ 61.19
Transfer of capital grants.
In the case of a previously awarded project that can no longer provide services and/or housing and the recipient agency has decided to withdraw or the project has been terminated for failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the award, VA may transfer a capital grant or non-capital grant to another eligible entity in the same geographical area without competition, in order to prevent a loss of capacity of services and housing to homeless veterans. The new entity must meet all of the requirements to which the original grantee was subject. In the case of a capital grant transfer the new grantee will only be entitled to the funding that remains from the original capital obligation and remains responsible for all commitments made by the original grantee.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011)

# Subpart C—Per Diem Payments
§ 61.30
Per diem—general.
(a)
General.
VA may provide per diem funds to offset operating costs for a program of supportive housing or services. VA may provide:
(1) Per diem funds to capital grant recipients; or
(2) Per diem only (PDO) funds to entities eligible to receive a capital
grant, if the entity established a program of supportive housing or services after November 10, 1992.
(b)
Capital grant recipients.
Capital grant recipients may request per diem funds after completion of a project funded by a capital grant and a site inspection under § 61.80 to ensure that the grantee is capable of providing supportive services.
(c)
Per diem only applicants.
PDO awards to entities eligible to receive a capital grant must provide supportive housing or services to the homeless veteran population within 180 days after the date on the notification of award letter, or VA will terminate the PDO payments.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2012)
§ 61.31
Per diem—application packages.
(a)
Capital grant recipient.
To apply for per diem, a capital grant recipient need only indicate the intent to receive per diem on the capital grant application or may separately request per diem by submitting to VA a written statement requesting per diem.
(b)
Non-capital-grant recipient (per diem only).
To apply for per diem only, a non-capital grant applicant must obtain from VA a non-capital grant application package and submit to VA the information called for in the application package within the time period established in the Notice of Fund Availability. The application package includes exhibits to be prepared and submitted as part of the application process, including:
(1) Documentation on eligibility to receive per diem under this part;
(2) Documentation on operating budget and cost sharing;
(3) Documentation on supportive services committed to the project;
(4) Comments or recommendations by appropriate state (and area wide) clearinghouses pursuant to E.O. 12372 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 197), if the applicant is a state; and
(5) Reasonable assurances with respect to receipt of per diem under this part that:
(i) The project will be used principally to furnish to veterans the level of care for which such application is made; that not more than 25 percent of participants at any one time will be non-veterans; and that such services will meet the requirements of this part;
(ii) Adequate financial support will be available for the per diem program; and
(iii) The recipient will keep records and submit reports as VA may reasonably require, within the time frames required; and give VA, upon demand, access to the records upon which such information is based.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2012)
§ 61.32
Per diem application packages—rating criteria.
(a)
Conditional selection.
Application packages for per diem only (
i.e.
, from non-capital grant applicants) in response to a Notice of Fund Availability (NOFA) will be reviewed and grouped in categories according to the funding priorities set forth in the NOFA, if any. Such applications will then be ranked within their respective funding category according to scores achieved only if the applicant scores at least 750 cumulative points out of a possible 1000 from each of the following paragraphs: (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of § 61.13. The highest-ranked applications for which funding is available, within highest funding priority category if applicable, will be conditionally selected for eligibility to receive per diem payments or special need payment in accordance with their ranked order. If funding priorities have been established and funds are still available after selection of those applicants in the highest priority group, VA will continue to conditionally select applicants in lower priority categories in accordance with the selection method set forth in this paragraph subject to available funding. Conditional selectees will be subsequently awarded per diem, if they otherwise meet the requirements of this part, including passing the inspection required by § 61.80.
(b)
Ranking applications.
In the event of a tie between applicants, VA will use the score from § 61.13(g) to determine
the ranking. Note: Capital grant recipients are not required to be ranked; however, continuation of per diem payments to capital grant recipients will be subject to limitations set forth in § 61.33.
(c)
Executing per diem agreements.
VA will execute per diem agreements with an applicant whose per diem application was conditionally selected under this section using the same procedures applicable to a capital grant under § 61.15.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2012)
§ 61.33
Payment of per diem.
(a)
General.
VA will pay per diem to recipients that provide a bed day of care:
(1) For a homeless veteran:
(i) Who VA referred to the recipient; or
(ii) For whom VA authorized the provision of supportive housing or supportive service;
(2) For providers of both supportive housing and services. When the referral or authorization of the homeless veteran will not result in the project exceeding the total number of bed days of care or total obligated funding as indicated in the grant agreement and funding action document; or
(3) For service centers. When the total hours of service or total obligated funding as indicated in the grant agreement and funding action document.
(b)
VA Review.
VA may at any time review the provision of supportive housing and services to individual veterans by the provider to ensure the care provided continues to be needed and appropriate.
(c)
Rate of payments for individual veterans.
The rate of per diem for each veteran in supportive housing will be the lesser of:
(1) The daily cost of care estimated by the per diem recipient minus other sources of payments to the per diem recipient for furnishing services to homeless veterans that the per diem recipient certifies to be correct (other sources include payments and grants from other departments and agencies of the United States, from departments of local and State governments, from private entities or organizations, and from program participants); or
(2) The current VA state home program per diem rate for domiciliary care, as set by the Secretary under 38 U.S.C. 1741(a)(1).
(d)
Rate of payments for service centers.
The per diem amount for service centers shall be 1-8 of the lesser of the amount in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, per hour, not to exceed eight (8) hours in any day.
(e)
Reimbursements.
Per diem may be paid retroactively for services provided not more than three (3) days before VA approval is given or where, through no fault of the recipient, per diem payments should have been made but were not made.
(f)
Payments for absent veterans.
VA will pay per diem up to a maximum of seventy-two (72) consecutive hours for the scheduled or unscheduled absence of a veteran, or, in the case of an in-patient hospitalization, will pay per diem up to a maximum of seven (7) days.
(g)
Veterans receiving supportive housing and services.
For circumstances where a veteran is receiving supportive housing and supportive services from the same per diem recipient, VA will not pay a per diem for the supportive services.
(h)
Reporting other sources of income.
At the time of receipt of a federal award from VA, a per diem recipient must report to VA all other sources of income for the project for which per diem was awarded. The report provides a basis for adjustments to the per diem payment under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
[86 FR 33524, June 25, 2021]

# Subpart D—Special Need Grants
§ 61.40
Special need grants—general.
(a) VA provides special need grants to public or nonprofit private entities that will create or provide supportive housing and services, which they would not otherwise create or provide, for the following special need homeless veteran populations:
(1) Women;
(2) Frail elderly;
(3) Terminally ill;
(4) Chronically mentally ill; or
(5) Individuals who have care of minor dependents.
(b) Applicants must submit an application package for a capital or non-capital grant, which will be processed by the VA National GPD Program in accordance with this part; however, to be eligible for a capital special need grant, an applicant must receive at least 800 points (out of a possible 1000) and must receive points under each of the following paragraphs: (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of § 61.13. Non-capital special need grants are rated in the same manner as non-capital grant applications under § 61.32.
(c) A recipient of a grant under paragraph (a) of this section may use amounts under the grant to provide services directly to a dependent of a homeless veteran with special needs who is under the care of such homeless veteran while such homeless veteran receives services from the grant recipient under this section.
(d) The following sections apply to special need grants: §§ 61.61 through 61.67, § 61.80, and § 61.82.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2061)
§ 61.41
Special need grants—application packages and threshold requirements.
(a)
Applications.
To apply for a special need grant, an applicant must obtain, complete, and submit to VA a special need capital grant or special need per diem only application package within the time period established in the Notice of Fund Availability. A special need grant application must meet the same threshold requirements applicable to a capital grant under § 61.12.
(b)
Additional requirement.
In addition to the requirements of § 61.11, applicants must describe how they will address the needs of one or more of the homeless veteran populations identified in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section.
(c)
Women.
Applications must show how the program design will:
(1) Ensure transportation for women, especially for health care and educational needs; and
(2) Address safety and security issues including segregation from other program participants if deemed appropriate.
(d)
Individuals who have care of minor dependents.
Applications must show how the program design will:
(1) Ensure transportation for individuals who have care of minor dependents, and their children, especially for health care and educational needs;
(2) Provide directly or offer referrals for adequate and safe child care;
(3) Ensure children's health care needs are met, especially age-appropriate wellness visits and immunizations; and
(4) Address safety and security issues including segregation from other program participants if deemed appropriate.
(e)
Frail elderly.
Applications must show how the program design will:
(1) Ensure the safety of the residents in the facility to include preventing harm and exploitation;
(2) Ensure opportunities to keep residents mentally and physically agile to the fullest extent through the incorporation of structured activities, physical activity, and plans for social engagement within the program and in the community;
(3) Provide opportunities for participants to address life transitional issues and separation and/or loss issues;
(4) Provide access to walkers, grippers, or other assistance devices necessary for optimal functioning;
(5) Ensure adequate supervision, including supervision of medication and monitoring of medication compliance; and
(6) Provide opportunities for participants either directly or through referral for other services particularly relevant for the frail elderly, including services or programs addressing emotional, social, spiritual, and generative needs.
(f)
Terminally ill.
Applications must show how the program design will:
(1) Help participants address life-transition and life-end issues;
(2) Ensure that participants are afforded timely access to hospice services;
(3) Provide opportunities for participants to engage in “tasks of dying,” or activities of “getting things in order” or other therapeutic actions that help resolve end of life issues and enable transition and closure;
(4) Ensure adequate supervision including supervision of medication and monitoring of medication compliance; and
(5) Provide opportunities for participants either directly or through referral for other services particularly relevant for terminally ill such as legal counsel and pain management.
(g)
Chronically mentally ill.
Applications must show how the program design will:
(1) Help participants join in and engage with the community;
(2) Facilitate reintegration with the community and provide services that may optimize reintegration such as life-skills education, recreational activities, and follow up case management;
(3) Ensure that participants have opportunities and services for re-establishing relationships with family;
(4) Ensure adequate supervision, including supervision of medication and monitoring of medication compliance; and
(5) Provide opportunities for participants, either directly or through referral, to obtain other services particularly relevant for a chronically mentally ill population, such as vocational development, benefits management, fiduciary or money management services, medication compliance, and medication education.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2061)
§ 61.44
Awarding special need grants and payment of special need per diem.
(a) For those applicants selected for a special need grant, VA will execute an agreement and make payments to the grantee under § 61.61.
(b) Capital grantee selectees who successfully complete the capital portion of their grant, or non-capital grantee selectees who successfully pass VA inspection, will be eligible for a special need per diem payment to defray the operational cost of the project. Special need per diem payment will be the lesser of:
(1) 100 percent of the daily cost of care estimated by the special need recipient for furnishing services to homeless veterans with special need that the special need recipient certifies to be correct, minus any other sources of income; or
(2) Two times the current VA State Home Program per diem rate for domiciliary care.
(c) Special need awards are subject to funds availability, the recipient meeting the performance goals as stated in the grant application, statutory and regulatory requirements, and annual inspections.
(d) Special need capital grantees are not eligible for per diem payment under § 61.33, as the special need per diem payment covers the cost of care.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2061)

# Subpart E—Technical Assistance Grants
§ 61.50
Technical assistance grants—general.
(a)
General.
VA provides technical assistance grants to entities or organizations with expertise in preparing grant applications relating to the provision of assistance for homeless veterans. The recipients must use the grants to provide technical assistance to nonprofit organizations with experience in providing assistance to homeless veterans in order to help such groups apply for grants under this part, or from any other source, for addressing the needs of homeless veterans. Current recipients of any grant under this part (other than a technical assistance grant), or their sub-recipients, are ineligible for technical assistance grants.
(b)
Allowable activities.
Technical assistance grant recipients may use grant funds for the following activities:
(1) Group or individual “how-to” grant writing seminars, providing instructions on applying for a grant. Topics must include:
(i) Determining eligibility;
(ii) Matching the awarding agency's grant mission to the applicant agency's strengths;
(iii) Meeting the specific grant outcome requirements;
(iv) Creating measurable goals and objectives for grants;
(v) Relating clear and concise grant project planning;
(vi) Ensuring appropriate grant project staffing; and
(vii) Demonstrating the applicant's abilities.
(2) Creation and dissemination of “how-to” grant writing materials,
i.e.
, compact disks, booklets, web pages or other media specifically designed to facilitate and instruct applicants in the completion of grant applications.
(3) Group or individual seminars, providing instructions on the legal obligations associated with grant applications. Topics must include:
(i) Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards under 2 CFR part 200;
(ii) Federal funding match and fund separation requirements; and
(iii) Property and equipment disposition.
(4) Telephone, video conferencing or email with potential grant applicants that specifically address grant application questions.
(c)
Unallowable activities.
Technical assistance grant recipients may not use grant funds for the following activities:
(1) Meetings, consortia, or any similar activity that does not assist community agencies in seeking grants to aid homeless veterans.
(2) Referral of individual veterans to agencies for benefits, housing, medical assistance, or social services.
(3) Lobbying.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501 and 2064)
[78 FR 12604, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 43323, July 22, 2015]
§ 61.51
Technical assistance grants—application packages.
(a) To apply for a technical assistance grant, an applicant must obtain from VA, complete, and submit to VA a technical assistance grant application package within the time period established in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(b) The technical assistance grant application package will require the following:
(1) Documentation on eligibility to receive a technical assistance grant under this part;
(2) A description of technical assistance that would be provided (see § 61.50);
(3) Documentation concerning the estimated operating costs and operating budget for the technical assistance program for which the grant is sought;
(4) Documentation concerning expertise in preparing grant applications;
(5) Documentation of resources committed to the provision of technical expertise;
(6) Comments or recommendations by appropriate state (and area wide) clearinghouses pursuant to E.O. 12372 (3 CFR, 1982 Comp., p. 197), if the applicant is a state; and
(7) Reasonable assurances that:
(i) The recipient will provide adequate financial and administrative support for providing the services set forth in the technical assistance grant application, and will actually provide such services; and
(ii) The recipient will keep records and timely submit reports as required by VA, and will give VA, on demand, access to the records upon which such reports are based.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2064)
§ 61.52
Technical assistance grant application packages—threshold requirements.
The following threshold requirements for a technical assistance grant must be met, or the application will be rejected before being rated under § 61.53:
(a) The application must be complete and submitted on the correct form and in the time period established in the Notice of Fund Availability;
(b) The applicant must establish expertise in preparing grant applications;
(c) The activities for which assistance is requested must be eligible for funding under this part;
(d) The applicant must demonstrate that adequate financial support will be available to carry out the project for which the grant is sought, consistent
with the plans, specifications and schedule submitted by the applicant;
(e) The applicant must not have an outstanding obligation to VA that is in arrears, or have an overdue or unsatisfactory response to an audit; and
(f) The applicant must not have been notified by VA as being in default.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2064)
§ 61.53
Technical assistance grant application packages—rating criteria.
(a)
General.
Applicants that meet the threshold requirements in § 61.52 will then be rated using the selection criteria listed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. To be eligible for a technical assistance grant, an applicant must receive at least 600 points (out of a possible 800).
(b)
Quality of the technical assistance.
VA will award up to 400 points based on the following:
(1) How the recipients of technical training will increase their skill level regarding the completion of applications;
(2) How the recipients of technical training will learn to find grant opportunities in a timely manner;
(3) How the technical assistance provided will be monitored and evaluated and changes made, if needed; and
(4) How the proposed technical assistance programs will be implemented in a timely fashion.
(c)
Ability of applicant to demonstrate expertise in preparing grant applications and to develop and operate a technical assistance program.
VA will award up to 400 points based on the extent to which the application demonstrates all of the following:
(1) Ability to find grants available for addressing the needs of homeless veterans.
(2) Ability to find and offer technical assistance to entities eligible for such assistance.
(3) Ability to administer a technical assistance program.
(4) Ability to provide grant technical assistance.
(5) Ability to evaluate the overall effectiveness of the technical assistance program and to make adjustments, if necessary, based on those evaluations.
(6) Past performance. VA may use historical documents of past performance from both VA and non-VA, including those from other Federal, state and local agencies and audits by private or public entities in scoring technical assistance applications.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2064)
§ 61.54
Awarding technical assistance grants.
(a) Applicants will first be grouped in categories according to the funding priorities set forth in the NOFA, if any. Applicants will then be ranked within their respective funding category, if applicable. The highest-ranked applications for which funding is available, within highest priority funding category if applicable, will be selected to receive a technical assistance grant in accordance with their ranked order, as determined under § 61.53. If funding priorities have been established and funds are still available after selection of those applicants in the highest priority group, VA will continue to conditionally select applicants in lower priority categories in accordance with the selection method set forth in this paragraph subject to available funding.
(b) In the event of a tie between applicants, VA will use the score from § 61.53(c) to determine the ranking.
(c) For those applicants selected to receive a technical assistance grant, VA will execute an agreement and make payments to the grant recipient in accordance with § 61.61.
(d) The amount of the technical assistance grant will be the estimated total operational cost of the technical assistance over the life of the technical assistance grant award as specified in the technical assistance grant agreement. Payments may be made for no more than the period specified in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(e) VA will not pay for sustenance or lodging for the nonprofit community participants or attendees at training conferences offered by technical assistance grant recipients; however, the grantee may use grant funds to recover such expenses.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2064)
§ 61.55
Technical assistance reports.
Each technical assistance grantee must submit to VA a quarterly report
describing the activities for which the technical assistance grant funds were used, including the type and amount of technical assistance provided and the number of nonprofit community-based groups served.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2064)

# Subpart F—Awards, Monitoring, and Enforcement of Agreements
§ 61.61
Agreement and funding actions.
(a)
Agreement.
When VA selects an applicant for grant or per diem award under this part, VA will incorporate the requirements of this part into an agreement to be executed by VA and the applicant. VA makes the final decision on applicant selection. VA may negotiate with an applicant regarding the details of the agreement and funding, as necessary. VA will enforce the agreement through such action as may be appropriate, including temporarily withholding cash payments pending correction of a deficiency. Appropriate actions include actions in accordance with the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards under 2 CFR part 200.
(b)
Obligating funds.
Upon execution of the agreement, VA will obligate funds to cover the amount of the approved grant/per diem, subject to the availability of funding. Payments will be for services rendered, contingent on submission of documentation in the form of invoices or purchase agreements and inspections, as VA deems necessary. VA will make payments on its own schedule to reimburse for amounts expended. Except for increases in the rate of per diem, VA will not increase the amount obligated for assistance under this part after the initial obligation of funds.
(c)
Deobligating funds.
VA may deobligate all or parts of funds obligated under this part:
(1) If the actual total cost for assistance is less than the total cost stated in the application; or
(2) If the recipient fails to comply with the requirements of this part.
(d)
Deobligation procedure.
Before deobligating funds under this section, VA will issue a notice of intent to terminate payments. The recipient will have 30 days to submit documentation demonstrating why payments should not be terminated. After review of any such documentation, VA will issue a final decision concerning termination of payment.
(e)
Other government funds.
No funds provided under this part may be used to replace Federal, state or local funds previously used, or designated for use, to assist homeless veterans.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061, 2064)
[78 FR 12604, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 43323, July 22, 2015; 86 FR 33524, June 25, 2021]
§ 61.62
Program changes.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, a recipient may not make any significant changes to a project for which a grant has been awarded without prior written approval from the VA National Grant and Per Diem Program Office. Significant changes include, but are not limited to, a change in the recipient, a change in the project site (including relocating, adding an annex, a branch, or other expansion), additions or deletions of activities, shifts of funds from one approved type of activity to another, and a change in the category of participants to be served.
(b) Recipients of grants involving both construction and non-construction projects must receive prior written approval from the VA National Grant and Per Diem Program Office for cumulative transfers among direct cost categories which exceed or are expected to exceed 10 percent of the current total approved budget.
(c) Recipients of grants for projects involving both construction and non-construction who are state or local governments must receive prior written approval from the VA National Grant and Per Diem Program Office for any budget revision which would transfer funds between non-construction and construction categories.
(d) Approval for changes is contingent upon the application ranking remaining high enough after the approved change to have been competitively selected for funding in the year the application was selected.
(e) Any changes to an approved program must be fully documented in the recipient's records.
(f) Recipients must inform the VA National Grant and Per Diem Program Office in writing of any key position and address changes in/of their organization within 30 days of the change,
i.e.
, new executive director or chief financial officer, permanent change of address for corporate communications.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061, 2064)
§ 61.63
Procedural error.
If an application would have been selected but for a procedural error committed by VA, VA may reconsider that application in the next funding round. A new application will not be required for this purpose so long as there is no material change in the information.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
§ 61.64
Faith-based organizations.
(a) Organizations that are faith-based are eligible, on the same basis as any other organization, to participate in VA programs under this part. Decisions about awards of Federal financial assistance must be free from political interference or even the appearance of such interference and must be made on the basis of merit, not on the basis of religion or religious belief or lack thereof.
(b)(1) No organization may use direct financial assistance from VA under this part to pay for any of the following:
(i) Explicitly religious activities such as, religious worship, instruction, or proselytization; or
(ii) Equipment or supplies to be used for any of those activities.
(2) For purposes of this section, “indirect Federal financial assistance” means Federal financial assistance in which a service provider receives program funds through a voucher, certificate, agreement, or other form of disbursement, wholly as a result of the genuinely independent and private choice of a beneficiary, not a choice of the Government. The availability of adequate secular alternatives is a significant factor in determining whether a program affords true private choice. “Direct Federal financial assistance” means Federal financial assistance received by an entity selected by the Government or a pass-through entity as defined in 38 CFR 50.1(d) to provide or carry out a service (
e.g.,
by contract, grant, or cooperative agreement). References to “financial assistance” will be deemed to be references to direct Federal financial assistance, unless the referenced assistance meets the definition of “indirect Federal financial assistance” in this paragraph (b)(2).
(c) Organizations that engage in explicitly religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization, must offer those services separately in time or location from any programs or services funded with direct financial assistance from VA, and participation in any of the organization's explicitly religious activities must be voluntary for the beneficiaries of a program or service funded by direct financial assistance from VA.
(d) A faith-based organization that participates in VA programs under this part will retain its independence from Federal, State, or local governments and may continue to carry out its mission, including the definition, practice and expression of its religious beliefs, provided that it does not use direct financial assistance from VA under this part to support any explicitly religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization. Among other things, faith-based organizations may use space in their facilities to provide VA-funded services under this part, without concealing, removing, or altering religious art, icons, scripture, or other religious symbols. In addition, a VA-funded faith-based organization retains its authority over its internal governance, and it may retain religious terms in its organization's name, select
its board members and otherwise govern itself on a religious basis, and include religious reference in its organization's mission statements and other governing documents.
(e) An organization that participates in a VA program under this part shall not, in providing direct program assistance, discriminate against a program beneficiary or prospective program beneficiary regarding housing, supportive services, or technical assistance, on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice.
(f) If a State or local government voluntarily contributes its own funds to supplement federally funded activities, the State or local government has the option to segregate the Federal funds or commingle them. However, if the funds are commingled, this provision applies to all of the commingled funds.
(g) To the extent otherwise permitted by Federal law, the restrictions on explicitly religious activities set forth in this section do not apply where VA funds are provided to faith-based organizations through indirect assistance wholly as a result of a genuinely independent and private choice of a beneficiary, provided the faith-based organizations otherwise satisfy the requirements of this part. A faith-based organization may receive such funds as the result of a beneficiary's genuine and independent choice if, for example, a beneficiary redeems a voucher, coupon, or certificate, allowing the beneficiary to direct where funds are to be paid, or a similar funding mechanism provided to that beneficiary and designed to give that beneficiary a choice among providers.
[85 FR 82144, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 15720, Mar. 4, 2024]
§ 61.65
Inspections.
VA may inspect the facility and records of any applicant or recipient when necessary to determine compliance with this part or an agreement under § 61.61. The authority to inspect does not authorize VA to manage or control the applicant or recipient.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061, 2064)
§ 61.66
Financial management.
(a) All recipients must comply with applicable requirements of the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards under 2 CFR part 200.
(b) All entities receiving assistance under this part must use a financial management system that follows generally accepted accounting principles and meets the requirements set forth under 2 CFR part 200. All recipients must implement the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 when determining costs reimbursable under all awards issued under this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501)
[80 FR 43323, July 22, 2015]
§ 61.67
Recovery provisions.
(a)
Full recovery of capital grants.
VA may recover from the grant recipient all of the grant amounts provided for the project if, after 3 years after the date of an award of a capital grant, the grant recipient has withdrawn from the VA Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem Program (Program), does not establish the project for which the grant was made, or has established the project for which the grant was made but has not passed final inspection. Where a recipient has no control over causes for delays in implementing a project, VA may extend the 3-year period, as appropriate. VA may obligate any recovered funds without fiscal year limitation.
(b)
Prorated (partial) recovery of capital grants.
If a capital grant recipient is not subject to recovery under paragraph (a) of this section, VA will seek recovery of the grant amount on a prorated basis where the grant recipient ceases to provide services for which the grant was made or withdraws from the Program prior to the expiration of the applicable period of operation, which period shall begin on the date shown on the activation document produced by the VA National GPD Program. In cases where capital grant recipients have chosen not to receive per diem payments, the applicable period of operation shall begin on the date the VA Medical Center Director approved placement at the project site as shown on the inspection documents. The
amount to be recaptured equals the total amount of the grant, multiplied by the fraction resulting from using the number of years the recipient was not operational as the numerator, and using the number of years of operation required under the following chart as the denominator.
Grant amount
(dollars in thousands)
Years of
operation
0-250
7
251-500
8
501-750
9
751-1,000
10
1,001-1,250
11
1,251-1,500
12
1,501-1,750
13
1,751-2,000
14
2,001-2,250
15
2,251-2,500
16
2,501-2,750
17
2,751-3,000
18
Over 3,000
20
(c)
Disposition of real property for capital grantees.
In addition to being subject to recovery under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, capital grantees are subject to real property disposition as required by 2 CFR part 200 when the grantee no longer is providing services through a grant awarded under this part.
(d)
Recovery of per diem and non-capital grants.
VA will seek to recover from the recipient of per diem, a special need non-capital grant, or a technical assistance grant any funds that are not used in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(e)
Notice.
Before VA takes action to recover funds, VA will issue to the recipient a notice of intent to recover funds. The recipient will then have 30 days to submit documentation demonstrating why funds should not be recovered. After review of any such documentation, VA will issue a decision regarding whether action will be taken to recover funds.
(f)
Vans.
All recovery provisions will apply to vans with the exception of the period of time for recovery. The period of time for recovery will be 7 years. Disposition provisions of 2 CFR part 200 apply to vans. Grantees are required to notify the VA National Grant and Per Diem Program Office for disposition of any van funded under this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061, 2064)
[78 FR 12604, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 43323, July 22, 2015]
§ 61.80
General operation requirements for supportive housing and service centers.
(a) Supportive housing and service centers for which assistance is provided under this part must comply with the requirements of the current edition of the Life Safety Code of the National Fire Protection Association and all applicable state and local housing codes, licensing requirements, fire and safety requirements, and any other requirements in the jurisdiction in which the project is located regarding the condition of the structure and the operation of the supportive housing or service centers. Note: All facilities are to be protected throughout by an approved automatic sprinkler system unless a facility is specifically exempted under the Life Safety Code.
(b) Except for such variations as are proposed by the recipient that would not affect compliance with paragraph (a) of this section and are approved by VA, supportive housing must meet the following requirements:
(1) The structures must be structurally sound so as not to pose any threat to the health and safety of the occupants and so as to protect the residents from the elements;
(2) Entry and exit locations to the structure must be capable of being utilized without unauthorized use of other private properties, and must provide alternate means of egress in case of fire;
(3) Buildings constructed or altered with Federal assistance must also be accessible to the disabled, as required by § 502 of the Americans with Disabilities Act, referred to as the Architectural Barriers Act;
(4) Each resident must be afforded appropriate space and security for themselves and their belongings, including an acceptable place to sleep that is in compliance with all applicable local, state, and federal requirements;
(5) Every room or space must be provided with natural or mechanical ventilation and the structures must be
free of pollutants in the air at levels that threaten the health of residents;
(6) The water supply must be free from contamination;
(7) Residents must have access to sufficient sanitary facilities that are in proper operating condition, that may be used in privacy, and that are adequate for personal cleanliness and the disposal of human waste;
(8) The housing must have adequate heating and/or cooling facilities in proper operating condition;
(9) The housing must have adequate natural or artificial illumination to permit normal indoor activities and to support the health and safety of residents and sufficient electrical sources must be provided to permit use of essential electrical appliances while assuring safety from fire;
(10) All food preparation areas must contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare, and serve food in a sanitary manner;
(11) The housing and any equipment must be maintained in a sanitary manner;
(12) The residents with disabilities must be provided meals or meal preparation facilities must be available;
(13) Residential supervision from a paid staff member, volunteer, or senior resident participant must be provided 24 hours per day, 7 days per week and for those times that a volunteer or senior resident participant is providing residential supervision a paid staff member must be on call for emergencies 24 hours a day 7 days a week (all supervision must be provided by individuals with sufficient knowledge for the position); and
(14) Residents must be provided a clean and sober environment that is free from illicit drug use or from alcohol use that: could threaten the health and/or safety of the residents or staff; hinders the peaceful enjoyment of the premises; or jeopardizes completion of the grantee's project goals and objectives. Those supportive housing or service centers that provide medical or social detox at the same site as the supportive housing or service must ensure that those residents in detox are clearly separated from the general residential population.
(c) VA will provide performance goals to recipients in its initial federal award and update annually thereafter:
(1) Each recipient must conduct an ongoing assessment of the supportive housing and services needed by their residents and the availability of housing and services to meet this need. Recipients are expected to make adjustments to meet resident needs.
(2) The recipient will provide to the VA GPD Liaison evidence of its ongoing assessment of the plan described in the grant application. The assessment must show how it is using the plan to meet the GPD performance goals.
(3) The VA GPD Liaison will provide the GPD performance information to recipients. VA will incorporate this assessment information into the annual inspection report.
(i) The VA GPD Liaison will review the quarterly assessment with the recipient no later than (30) days after the end of each of the following quarters:
(A) Quarter 1 (October-December) assessment completed not later than January 30;
(B) Quarter 2 (January-March) assessment completed not later than April 30;
(C) Quarter 3 (April-June) assessment completed not later than July 30; and,
(D) Quarter 4 (July-September) assessment completed not later than October 30.
(ii) A valid assessment must include the following:
(A) A comparison of actual accomplishments to established GPD performance goals for the reporting period addressing quantifiable as well as non-quantifiable goals. Examples include, but are not limited to, a description of grant agreement-related activities, such as: Hiring and training personnel, community orientation/awareness activities, programmatic activities, or job development; and
(B) Identification of administrative and programmatic problems, which may affect performance and proposed solutions.
(iii) Recipients and VA GPD Liaisons must include a summary of the quarterly assessment in their administrative records. These quarterly assessments will be used to provide a cumulative assessment for the entire calendar year.
(iv) The recipient must immediately inform the VA GPD Liaison of any significant developments affecting its ability to accomplish the work. VA GPD Liaisons will provide necessary technical assistance.
(v) If, after reviewing a recipient's assessment, VA determines that it falls more than five percent below any performance goal, then VA may require the recipient to create and follow a performance improvement plan (PIP) as outlined in 38 CFR 61.80(c)(vi).
(vi) Performance Improvement Plan (PIP): If VA determines that a recipient deviates more than five percent from established GPD performance goals for any two (2) consecutive quarters as defined in 38 CFR 61.80(c)(3)(A)(i) through (iv), the recipient will submit a PIP to the VA GPD Liaison sixty (60) calendar days after VA makes its determination.
(A) The PIP must identify the activity which falls below the measure. The PIP must describe the reason(s) why the recipient did not meet the performance measure(s) and provide specific proposed corrective action(s) and a timetable for accomplishment of the corrective action. The plan may include the recipient's intent to propose modifying the grant agreement. The recipient will submit the PIP to the VA GPD Liaison.
(B) The VA GPD Liaison will forward the PIP to the VA National GPD Program Office. The VA National GPD Program Office will review the PIP and notify the recipient in writing whether the PIP is approved or disapproved. If disapproved, the VA GPD Liaison will make suggestions for improving the proposed PIP, and the recipient may resubmit the PIP to the VA National GPD Program Office.
(vii) If the recipient is not compliant after the PIP, then VA may impose any combination of the following enforcement actions by award revision:
(A) Withhold placements;
(B) Withhold payment;
(C) Suspend payment; and
(D) Terminate the grant agreement, as outlined in this part or other applicable federal statutes and regulations.
(d) A homeless veteran may remain in supportive housing for which assistance is provided under this part for a period no longer than 24 months, except that a veteran may stay longer, if permanent housing for the veteran has not been located or if the veteran requires additional time to prepare for independent living. However, at any given time, no more than one-half of the veterans at such supportive housing facility may have resided at the facility for periods longer than 24 months.
(e) Each recipient of assistance under this part must provide for the consultation and participation of not less than one homeless veteran or formerly homeless veteran on the board of directors or an equivalent policymaking entity of the recipient, to the extent that such entity considers and makes policies and decisions regarding any project provided under this part. This requirement may be waived if an applicant, despite a good faith effort to comply, is unable to meet it and presents a plan, subject to VA approval, to otherwise consult with homeless or formerly homeless veterans in considering and making such policies and decisions.
(f) Each recipient of assistance under this part must, to the maximum extent practicable, involve homeless veterans and families, through employment, volunteer services, or otherwise, in constructing, rehabilitating, maintaining, and operating the project and in providing supportive services for the project.
(g) Each recipient of assistance under this part shall establish procedures for fiscal control and fund accounting to ensure proper disbursement and accounting of assistance received under this part.
(h) The recipient of assistance under this part that provides family violence prevention or treatment services must establish and implement procedures to ensure:
(1) The confidentiality of records pertaining to any individual provided services, and
(2) The confidentially of the address or location where the services are provided.
(i) Each recipient of assistance under this part must maintain the confidentiality of records kept on homeless veterans receiving services.
(j) VA may disapprove use of outpatient health services provided through the recipient if VA determines that such services are of unacceptable quality. Further, VA will not pay per diem where the Department concludes that services furnished by the recipient are unacceptable.
(k) A service center for homeless veterans shall provide services to homeless veterans for a minimum of 40 hours per week over a minimum of 5 days per week, as well as provide services on an as-needed, unscheduled basis. The calculation of average hours shall include travel time for mobile service centers. In addition:
(1) Space in a service center shall be made available as mutually agreeable for use by VA staff and other appropriate agencies and organizations to assist homeless veterans;
(2) A service center shall be equipped to provide, or assist in providing, health care, mental health services, hygiene facilities, benefits and employment counseling, meals, and transportation assistance;
(3) A service center shall provide other services as VA determines necessary based on the need for services otherwise not available in the geographic area; and
(4) A service center may be equipped and staffed to provide, or to assist in providing, job training and job placement services (including job readiness, job counseling, and literacy and skills training), as well as any outreach and case management services that may be necessary to meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(l) Fixed site service centers will prominently post at or near the entrance to the service center their hours of operation and contacts in case of emergencies. Mobile service centers must take some action reasonably calculated to provide in advance a tentative schedule of visits (e.g., newspapers, fliers, public service announcements on television or radio). The schedule should include but is not limited to:
(1) The region of operation;
(2) Times of operation;
(3) Expected services to be provided; and
(4) Contacts for specific information and changes.
(m) Each recipient that provides housing and services must have a written disaster plan that has been coordinated with the emergency management entity responsible for the locality in which the project exists. The plan must encompass natural and man-made disasters.
(n) The recipient will inform within 24 hours its VA liaison of any sentinel events occurring within the program (
i.e.
, drug overdose, death, injury).
(o) The grantee, or sub-grantee, will provide appropriate orientation and training to staff to enable them to provide quality services that are appropriate to homeless veteran or homeless special need veteran population.
(p) The grantee will maintain systematic participant enrollment information and participant tracking records designed to facilitate the uniform compilation and analysis of programmatic data necessary for verification of veteran status and case management, reporting, monitoring, and evaluation purposes.
(q) The grantee will also document in each participant record at a minimum:
(1) Family status.
(2) Verification of veteran status (DD214, Department of Veterans Affairs confirmation report and/or identification card).
(3) Education, employment history, and marketable skills/licenses/credentials.
(4) An Individual Service Plan (ISP) for each individual participant will be maintained in the participant case management record which contains the following:
(i) An assessment of barriers, service needs, as well as strengths; and
(ii) Specific services and referrals planned and benefits to be achieved as a result of program participation.
(5) Duration and outcome of supportive service.
(6) The grantee must verify service outcomes each calendar year quarter
through the participant and provide documentation of this verification in the participant case management files.
(r) The grantee will ensure that no more than 25 percent of the grant awarded beds are occupied by non-veterans, or VA may take actions as appropriate to decrease the beds, grant amounts, or terminate the grant and seek recapture in the case of capital funding. To calculate the occupancy rate, divide the actual number of bed days of care for veterans eligible to reside in the project, by the total number of possible bed days of care (the previous 180 days from the most current 6 month period).
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirements in this section under control number 2900-0554)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061)
[78 FR 12604, Feb. 25, 2013, as amended at 86 FR 33524, June 25, 2021]
§ 61.81
Outreach activities.
Recipients of capital grants and per diem relating to supportive housing or service centers must use their best efforts to ensure that eligible hard-to-reach veterans are found, engaged, and provided assistance. To achieve this goal, recipients may search for homeless veterans at places such as shelters, soup kitchens, parks, bus or train stations, and the streets. Outreach particularly should be directed toward veterans who have a nighttime residence that is an emergency shelter or a public or private place not ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings (e.g., cars, streets, or parks).
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061)
§ 61.82
Participant fees for supportive housing.
(a) Each participant of supportive housing may be required to pay a participant fee in an amount determined by the recipient, except that such participant fee may not exceed 30 percent of the participant's monthly income after deducting medical expenses, child care expenses, court ordered child support payments, or other court ordered payments; nor may it exceed the program's set maximum rate or the HUD Fair Market Rent for that type of housing and its location, whichever is less. The participant fee determination and collection process/procedures should be documented in the grant recipient's operating procedures to ensure consistency, fairness, and accuracy of fees collected. The participant's monthly income includes all income earned by or paid to the participant.
(b) Retroactive benefit payments from any source to program participants, for the purpose of this part, may be considered income in the month received and therefore may be used in calculating the participant fee for that month.
(c) Participant fees may be used for costs of operating the supportive housing or to assist supportive housing residents' move to permanent housing, and must have a therapeutic benefit.
(d) In addition to a participant fee, recipients may charge residents reasonable fees for extracurricular services and activities (extracurricular fee) that participants are not required to receive under the terms of the grant award, are not paid for by VA per diem, or provided by VA. Extracurricular fees must be voluntary on the part of the participant.
(e) In projects funded under this part where participants sign agreements, VA treats the costs associated with participant eviction to be as unallowable.
(f) Use of participant agreements.
(1) Participant agreements must be between the grant recipient of record and the program participant.
(2) Participant agreements must be part of a therapeutic plan to increase self-determination and responsibility.
(3) Participant agreements must include a clause that allows program participants the ability to break the lease or program agreement without penalty for medical or clinical necessity.
(4) Participant agreements may not be used to exclude homeless veterans with little or no income from the program.
(5) Participant agreements and conditions must be fully disclosed to potential participants and acknowledged in writing by both parties.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2011, 2012, 2061)

# Subpart G—Case Management Services Grant Program

# Source:
83 FR 25918, June 5, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 61.90
Grant for case management services—program.
(a)
General.
VA may award grants for case management services to non-profit organizations and State, local and tribal governments for the provision of case management services to improve the retention of housing by veterans who were previously homeless and are transitioning to permanent housing and to veterans who are at risk of becoming homeless. (For purposes of this program, the term “tribal government” means an entity described in paragraph (2) of the definition of “public entity” in 38 CFR 61.1.) The goals of the grant program are: The maintenance of permanent housing by a veteran following discharge from homeless residential services, a reduction in recidivism, and an increase in exits to permanent housing. These grant funds may not be used for veterans who are receiving case management services from permanent supportive housing programs (
e.g.
Housing and Urban Development—VA Supportive Housing) or rapid re-housing/homeless prevention programs (
e.g.
Supportive Services for Veterans Families (SSVF)).
(b)
Case management services.
Case management services include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Making home visits by the case manager to monitor housing stability;
(2) Providing or coordinating educational activities related to meal planning, tenant responsibilities, the use of public transportation, community resources, financial management, and the development of natural supports;
(3) Making referrals to needed services, such as mental health, substance use disorder, medical, and employment services; and
(4) Participating in case conferencing with other service providers who are working with the veteran.
(c)
Time limit.
Case management services may be provided for a particular veteran for up to 6 months, unless VA receives and approves a written request for additional time before the 6-month time limit expires.
§ 61.92
Grant for case management services—application and rating criteria.
(a)
General requirements.
When funds are available for grants for case management services authorized under §§ 61.90 through 61.98, VA will publish a Notice of Fund Availability (NOFA) in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 61.3. The applicant must meet all of the following requirements or the application will be rejected without further consideration:
(1) The applicant must submit an application and comply with the application requirements identified in the NOFA,
e.g.,
complete all parts of the correct form and include all information requested in the NOFA.
(2) Include a signed Application for Federal Assistance (SF 424) that contains the applicant's Employer Identification Number or Taxpayer Identification Number (EIN/TIN). All non-profit applicants must provide their Internal Revenue Service 501(c)(3) or (19) determination letter, which includes the EIN/TIN contained in the application. Applicants that apply under a group EIN/TIN must be identified by the parent EIN/TIN as a member or sub-unit of the parent EIN/TIN and provide supporting documentation.
(3) The application must be received before the deadline established in the NOFA.
(4) The applicant must be a nonprofit organization or a State, local, or tribal government.
(5) The activities for which assistance is requested must be eligible for funding under §§ 61.90-61.98.
(6) The applicant must agree to comply with the requirements of §§ 61.90 through 61.98 and demonstrate the capacity to do so.
(7) The applicant must not have an outstanding obligation to VA that is in arrears, or have an overdue or unsatisfactory response to an audit.
(8) The applicant must not have been notified by VA as being in default.
(b)
Rating criteria.
To be eligible for a case management grant, an applicant must receive at least 750 points (out of a possible 1000) and must receive points
under paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.
(c)
Project plan.
VA will award up to 400 points based on the demonstration and quality of the following:
(1) The process used for deciding which veterans are referred and accepted for case management services.
(2) How, when, and by whom the progress of participants who are receiving case management services toward meeting their individual goals will be monitored, evaluated, and documented. This monitoring includes, but is not limited to, a description of how home visits would be provided and the general purpose and frequency anticipated of the home visits.
(3) How the participant's system of natural supports would be assessed and developed.
(4) How crisis intervention services will be coordinated, as needed, to promote the maintenance of permanent housing, access to medical care, mental health or substance use disorder treatment.
(5) How the applicant will provide education to case management participants, as needed, in the areas of tenant rights and responsibilities, rental/lease agreements, landlords rights and responsibilities, and budgeting.
(6) How case management services will be phased out.
(d)
Ability of the applicant to develop and operate a project.
VA will award up to 200 points based on the extent to which the applicant demonstrates the necessary staff and organizational experience to develop and operate the proposed project, based on the following:
(1) Staffing plan for the project that reflects the appropriate professional staff, both administrative and clinical;
(2) Experience of staff, or if staff is not yet hired, position descriptions and expectations of time to hire;
(3) Applicant's previous experience assessing and providing for the housing needs of formerly homeless veterans;
(4) Applicant's previous experience in providing case management services to assist persons in maintaining permanent housing;
(5) Applicant's previous experience in coordinating crisis intervention services, including medical, mental health, and substance use disorder services.
(6) Applicant's experience in working with local landlords as part of providing housing support services.
(7) Historical documentation of past performance both with VA and non-VA projects, including those from other Federal, state and local agencies, and audits by private or public entities.
(e)
Need.
VA will award up to 150 points based on the extent to which the applicant demonstrates:
(1) Substantial unmet need for formerly homeless veterans who have exited homeless transitional housing or residential services and are in need of time limited case management to maintain permanent housing. Demonstration of need must be based on reliable data from reports or other data gathering systems that directly support claims made; and
(2) An understanding of the formerly homeless population to be served and its supportive service needs.
(f)
Completion confidence.
VA will award up to 50 points based on the review panel's confidence that the applicant has effectively demonstrated the case management services project will be completed as described in the application. VA may use historical program documents demonstrating the applicant's past performance, including those from other Federal, state and local agencies, as well as audits by private or public entities in determining confidence scores.
(g)
Coordination with other programs.
VA will award up to 200 points based on the extent to which the applicant demonstrates that it has coordinated with Federal, state, local, private, and other entities serving homeless persons or persons at risk for homelessness in the planning and operation of the case management services project. Such entities include, but are not limited to, shelters, transitional housing, Public Housing Authorities, health care or social service providers, providers funded through Federal initiatives, local planning coalitions or provider associations, or other program providers relevant to the needs of formerly homeless veterans in the local community. Applicants are required to demonstrate that they have coordinated with the
VA medical facility of jurisdiction or VA regional office of jurisdiction in their area. VA will award up to 50 points of the 200 points based on the extent to which commitments to provide supportive services are documented at the time of application. Up to 150 points of the 200 points will be given to the extent applicants demonstrate that:
(1) They are part of an ongoing community-wide planning process within the framework described in this section, which is designed to share information on available resources and reduce duplication among programs that serve homeless veterans (
e.g.
Continuum of Care);
(2) They have consulted directly with the closest VA medical facility and other providers within the framework described in this section regarding coordination of services for project participants; and
(3) They have coordinated with the closest VA medical facility their plan to assure access to health care, case management, and other care services.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2900-XXXX)
§ 61.94
Grant for case management services—selection of grantees.
(a)
Award priority.
Grants for case management services will be awarded in order of priority as follows:
(1) VA will give extra priority to grants for case management services to applications from operational Grant and Per Diem funded organizations that have given up per diem or special need funding and converted their transitional housing to permanent housing. In order to obtain this extra priority, organizations must provide documentation showing that their permanent housing meets the quality housing standards established under section 8(o)(8)(B) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(8)(B)).
(2) VA will give priority to applications from organizations that demonstrate a capability to provide case management services, particularly organizations that are successfully providing or have successfully provided transitional housing services using grants provided by VA under 38 U.S.C. 2012 and 2061.
(3) Applications from other organizations without a Grant and Per Diem grant that seek to provide time limited case management to formerly homeless veterans who have exited VA transitional housing or other VA homeless residential treatment services to permanent housing.
(b)
Higher award priority.
Within each of the three priorities in paragraph (a) of this section, an application with more points using the rating criteria in § 61.92(b) will be given a higher priority for a grant award.
§ 61.96
Grant for case management services—awards.
(a)
Funding.
Grants for case management services will be offered from the current Grant and Per Diem Program budget and will be limited annually by VA's funding availability and commitments to existing programs.
(b)
Use of grant funds for administrative costs.
Grant funds may be used for the following administrative purposes
(1) Case management staff;
(2) Transportation for the case manager;
(3) Cell phones and computers to facilitate home visits and other case management activities associated with the grant; and
(4) Office furniture for the use of the case management staff.
(c)
Awards.
VA will execute an agreement and make payments to the grantee in accordance with the award and funding actions applicable to the Grant and Per Diem Program as described in § 61.61.
§ 61.98
Grant for case management services—requirements and oversight.
VA will oversee grants for case management services to ensure that each grantee operates its program in accordance with §§ 61.90 through 61.98. VA's oversight responsibilities include reviewing and responding to requests from grantees for extensions to the otherwise applicable maximum 6-month time limit. Grantees must also comply with the requirements of 38 CFR 61.65; 61.67(d) and 61.67(e); and 61.80(c), (g), (h), (i), (n), (o), (p), and (q). VA may disapprove of case management services provided by the grantee
if VA determines that they are of unacceptable quality in which case grant funds may not be used to pay for them.
Pt. 62

# PART 62—SUPPORTIVE SERVICES FOR VETERAN FAMILIES PROGRAM
Sec.
62.1
Purpose.
62.2
Definitions.
62.10
Supportive services grants—general.
62.11
Participants—occupying permanent housing.
62.20
Applications for supportive services grants.
62.21
Threshold requirements prior to scoring supportive services grant applicants.
62.22
Scoring criteria for supportive services grant applicants.
62.23
Selecting applicants to receive supportive services grants.
62.24
Scoring criteria for grantees applying for renewal of supportive services grants.
62.25
Selecting grantees for renewal of supportive services grants.
62.30
Supportive service: Outreach services.
62.31
Supportive service: Case management services.
62.32
Supportive service: Assistance in obtaining VA benefits.
62.33
Supportive service: Assistance in obtaining and coordinating other public benefits.
62.34
Other supportive services.
62.35
Limitations on and continuations of the provision of supportive services to certain participants.
62.36
General operation requirements.
62.37
Fee prohibition.
62.38
Ineligible activities.
62.40
Notice of Fund Availability.
62.50
Supportive services grant agreements.
62.51
Payments under the supportive services grant.
62.60
Program or budget changes and corrective action plans.
62.61
Procedural error.
62.62
Faith-based organizations.
62.63
Visits to monitor operations and compliance.
62.70
Financial management and administrative costs.
62.71
Grantee reporting requirements.
62.72
Recordkeeping.
62.73
Technical assistance.
62.80
Withholding, suspension, deobligation, termination, and recovery of funds by VA.
62.81
Supportive services grant closeout procedures.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 501, 2044, and as noted in specific sections.

# Source:
75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 62.1
Purpose.
This part implements the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program, which provides supportive services grants to eligible entities to facilitate the provision of supportive services to very low-income veteran families who are occupying permanent housing.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part and any Notice of Fund Availability issued under this part:
Applicant
means an eligible entity that submits an application for a supportive services grant announced in a Notice of Fund Availability.
Area or community
means a political subdivision or contiguous political subdivisions (such as a precinct, ward, borough, city, county, State, Congressional district or tribal reservation) with an identifiable population of very low-income veteran families.
Consumer cooperative
has the meaning given such term in section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q).
Date of completion
means the earliest of the following dates:
(1) The date on which all required work is completed;
(2) The date specified in the supportive services grant agreement, or any supplement or amendment thereto; or
(3) The effective date of a supportive services grant termination under § 62.80(c).
Disallowed costs
means costs charged by a grantee that VA determines to be unallowable based on applicable Federal cost principles, or based on this part or the supportive services grant agreement.
Eligible child care provider
means a provider of child care services for compensation, including a provider of care for a school-age child during non-school hours, that—
(1) Is licensed, regulated, registered, or otherwise legally operating, under state and local law; and
(2) Satisfies the state and local requirements, applicable to the child care services the provider provides.
Eligible entity
means a:
(1) Private non-profit organization, or
(2) Consumer cooperative.
Emergency housing
means temporary housing provided under § 62.34(f) that does not require the participant to sign a lease or occupancy agreement.
Extremely low-income veteran family
means a veteran family whose annual income, as determined in accordance with 24 CFR 5.609, does not exceed 30 percent of the median income for an area or community.
General housing stability assistance
means the provision of goods or payment of expenses that are directly related to supporting a participant's housing stability and are authorized under § 62.34(e).
Grantee
means an eligible entity that is awarded a supportive services grant under this part.
Homeless
has the meaning given that term in 24 CFR 576.2.
Notice of Fund Availability
means a Notice of Fund Availability published in the
Federal Register
in accordance with § 62.40.
Occupying permanent housing
means meeting any of the conditions set forth in § 62.11.
Participant
means a very low-income veteran family occupying permanent housing who is receiving supportive services from a grantee.
Permanent housing
means community-based housing without a designated length of stay where an individual or family has a lease in accord with state and Federal law that is renewable and terminable only for cause. Examples of permanent housing include, but are not limited to, a house or apartment with a month-to-month or annual lease term or home ownership.
Private non-profit organization
means any of the following:
(1) An incorporated private institution or foundation that:
(i) Has no part of the net earnings that inure to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual;
(ii) Has a governing board that is responsible for the operation of the supportive services provided under this part; and
(iii) Is approved by VA as to financial responsibility.
(2) A for-profit limited partnership, the sole general partner of which is an organization meeting the requirements of paragraphs (1)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this definition.
(3) A corporation wholly owned and controlled by an organization meeting the requirements of paragraphs (1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this definition.
(4) A tribally designated housing entity (as defined in section 4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4103)).
Rapid re-housing
means an intervention designed to help individuals and families quickly exit homelessness and return to permanent housing. Rapid re-housing assistance is offered without preconditions (such as employment, income, absence of criminal record, or sobriety) and the resources and services provided are typically tailored to the unique needs of the household. The three core components of rapid re-housing include housing identification, rent and move-in financial assistance, and rapid re-housing case management and services. While a rapid re-housing program must have all three core components available, it is not required that a single entity provide all three services nor that a household utilize them all.
State
means any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a State exclusive of local governments. The term does not include any public and Indian housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937.
Subcontractor
means any third party contractor, of any tier, working directly for an eligible entity.
Supportive services
means any of the following provided to address the needs of a participant:
(1) Outreach services as specified under § 62.30.
(2) Case management services as specified under § 62.31.
(3) Assisting participants in obtaining VA benefits as specified under § 62.32.
(4) Assisting participants in obtaining and coordinating other public benefits as specified under § 62.33.
(5) Other services as specified under § 62.34.
Supportive services grant
means a grant awarded under this part.
Supportive services grant agreement
means the agreement executed between VA and a grantee as specified under § 62.50.
Suspension
means an action by VA that temporarily withdraws VA funding under a supportive services grant, pending corrective action by the grantee or pending a decision to terminate the supportive services grant by VA. Suspension of a supportive services grant is a separate action from suspension under VA regulations implementing Executive Orders 12549 and 12689, “Debarment and Suspension.”
VA
means the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Very low-income veteran family
means a veteran family whose annual income, as determined in accordance with 24 CFR 5.609, does not exceed 50 percent of the median income for an area or community, as will be adjusted by VA based on family size and as may be adjusted and announced by VA in the Notice of Fund Availability based on residency within an area with unusually high or low construction costs, fair market rents (as determined under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f)), or family incomes. Unless VA announces otherwise in the Notice of Fund Availability, the median income for an area or community will be determined using the income limits most recently published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development for programs under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
Veteran
means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, regardless of length of service, and who was discharged or released therefrom. Veteran excludes a person who received a dishonorable discharge from the Armed Forces or was discharged or dismissed from the Armed Forces by reason of the sentence of a general court-martial. The length of service restrictions under 38 U.S.C. 5303A do not apply.
Veteran family
means a veteran who is a single person or a family in which the head of household, or the spouse of the head of household, is a veteran.
Withholding
means that payment of a supportive services grant will not be paid until such time as VA determines that the grantee provides sufficiently adequate documentation and/or actions to correct a deficiency for the supportive services grant. Costs for supportive services provided by grantees under the supportive services grant from the date of the withholding letter would be reimbursed only if the grantee is able to submit the documentation or actions that the deficiency has been corrected to the satisfaction of VA.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9610, Feb. 24, 2015; 82 FR 51160, Nov. 3, 2017]
§ 62.10
Supportive services grants—general.
(a) VA provides supportive services grants to eligible entities as described in this part.
(b) Grantees must use at least 90 percent of supportive services grant funds to provide and coordinate the provision of supportive services to very low-income veteran families who are occupying permanent housing.
(c) Grantees may use up to 10 percent of supportive services grant funds for administrative costs identified in § 62.70.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.11
Participants—occupying permanent housing.
A very low-income veteran family will be considered to be occupying permanent housing if the very low-income veteran family:
(a) Is residing in permanent housing and at risk of becoming homeless, per conditions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but for the grantee's assistance;
(b)(1) Is lacking a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence, meaning:
(i) That the veteran family's primary nighttime residence is a public or private place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings, including a car, park, abandoned bus or train station, airport, or camping ground;
(ii) That the veteran family is living in a supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designated to provide temporary living arrangements (including congregate shelters, transitional housing, and hotels and motels paid for by charitable organizations or by federal, State, or local government programs for low-income individuals); or
(iii) That the veteran family is exiting an institution where the veteran family resided for 90 days or less and who resided in an emergency shelter or place not meant for human habitation immediately before entering that institution;
(2) Are at risk to remain in the situation described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section but for the grantee's assistance; and
(3) Scheduled to become a resident of permanent housing within 90 days pending the location or development of housing suitable for permanent housing; or
(c) Has met any of the conditions described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section after exiting permanent housing within the previous 90 days to seek other housing that is responsive to the very low-income veteran family's needs and preferences.

# Note to paragraph (
c

# ):
For limitations on the provision of supportive services to participants classified under paragraph (c) of this section, see § 62.35.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[80 FR 9610, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 62.20
Applications for supportive services grants.
(a) To apply for a supportive services grant, an applicant must submit to VA a complete supportive services grant application package, as described in the Notice of Fund Availability. A complete supportive services grant application package includes the following:
(1) A description of the supportive services to be provided by the applicant and the identified need for such supportive services among very low-income veteran families;
(2) A description of how the applicant will ensure that services are provided to very low-income veteran families for whom:
(i) No appropriate housing options have been identified for the veteran family; and
(ii) The veteran family lacks the financial resources and/or support networks to obtain or remain in permanent housing;
(3) A description of the characteristics of very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing who will be provided supportive services by the applicant;
(4) An estimate with supporting documentation of the number of very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing who will be provided supportive services by the applicant and a description of the area or community where such very low-income veteran families are located, including an estimate of the total number of very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing in such area or community;
(5) Documentation evidencing the experience of the applicant and any identified subcontractors in providing supportive services to very low-income veteran families and very low-income families;
(6) Documentation relating to the applicant's ability to coordinate with any identified subcontractors;
(7) Documentation of the managerial capacity of the applicant to:
(i) Coordinate the provision of supportive services with the provision of permanent housing by the applicant or by other organizations;
(ii) Assess continuously the needs of participants for supportive services;
(iii) Coordinate the provision of supportive services with services provided by VA;
(iv) Customize supportive services to the needs of participants;
(v) Continuously seek new sources of assistance to ensure the long-term provision of supportive services to very
low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing;
(vi) Comply with and implement the requirements of this part throughout the term of the supportive services grant; and
(8) Any additional information as deemed appropriate by VA.
(b) Grantees may submit an application for renewal of a supportive services grant if the grantee's program will remain substantially the same. To apply for renewal of a supportive services grant, a grantee must submit to VA a complete supportive services grant renewal application package, as described in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(c) VA may request in writing that an applicant or grantee, as applicable, submit other information or documentation relevant to the supportive services grant application.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0757)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9611, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 62.21
Threshold requirements prior to scoring supportive services grant applicants.
VA will only score applicants that meet the following threshold requirements:
(a) The application is filed within the time period established in the Notice of Fund Availability, and any additional information or documentation requested by VA under § 62.20(c) is provided within the time frame established by VA;
(b) The application is completed in all parts;
(c) The applicant is an eligible entity;
(d) The activities for which the supportive services grant is requested are eligible for funding under this part;
(e) The applicant's proposed participants are eligible to receive supportive services under this part;
(f) The applicant agrees to comply with the requirements of this part;
(g) The applicant does not have an outstanding obligation to the Federal government that is in arrears and does not have an overdue or unsatisfactory response to an audit; and
(h) The applicant is not in default by failing to meet the requirements for any previous Federal assistance.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.22
Scoring criteria for supportive services grant applicants.
VA will use the following criteria to score applicants who are applying for a supportive services grant:
(a) VA will award up to 35 points based on the background, qualifications, experience, and past performance, of the applicant, and any subcontractors identified by the applicant in the supportive services grant application, as demonstrated by the following:
(1)
Background and organizational history.
(i) Applicant's, and any identified subcontractors', background and organizational history are relevant to the program.
(ii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, maintain organizational structures with clear lines of reporting and defined responsibilities.
(iii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have a history of complying with agreements and not defaulting on financial obligations.
(2)
Staff qualifications.
(i) Applicant's staff, and any identified subcontractors' staff, have experience working with very low-income families.
(ii) Applicant's staff, and any identified subcontractors' staff, have experience administering programs similar to the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program.
(3)
Organizational qualifications and past performance.
(i) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience providing supportive services to very low-income families.
(ii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience coordinating services for very low-income families among multiple organizations, Federal, State, local and tribal governmental entities.
(iii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience administering a program similar in type and scale to the Supportive
Services for Veteran Families Program to very low-income families.
(4)
Experience working with veterans.
(i) Applicant's staff, and any identified subcontractors' staff, have experience working with veterans.
(ii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience providing supportive services to veterans.
(iii) Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, have organizational experience coordinating services for veterans among multiple organizations, Federal, State, local and tribal governmental entities.
(b) VA will award up to 25 points based on the applicant's program concept and supportive services plan, as demonstrated by the following:
(1)
Need for program.
(i) Applicant has shown a need amongst very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing in the area or community where the program will be based.
(ii) Applicant understands the unique needs for supportive services of very low-income veteran families.
(2)
Outreach and screening plan.
(i) Applicant has a feasible outreach and referral plan to identify and assist very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing that may be eligible for supportive services and are most in need of supportive services. The plan ensures that the applicant's program will assist very low-income families who also meet the requirements of § 62.20(a)(2).
(ii) Applicant has a plan to process and receive participant referrals.
(iii) Applicant has a plan to assess and accommodate the needs of incoming participants.
(3)
Program concept.
(i) Applicant's program concept, size, scope, and staffing plan are feasible.
(ii) Applicant's program is designed to meet the needs of very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing.
(4)
Program implementation timeline.
(i) Applicant's program will be implemented in a timely manner and supportive services will be delivered to participants as quickly as possible and within a specified timeline.
(ii) Applicant has a hiring plan in place to meet the applicant's program timeline or has existing staff to meet such timeline.
(5)
Collaboration and communication with VA.
Applicant has a plan to coordinate outreach and services with local VA facilities.
(6)
Ability to meet VA's requirements, goals and objectives for the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program.
Applicant is committed to ensuring that its program meets VA's requirements, goals and objectives for the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program as identified in this part and the Notice of Fund Availability.
(7)
Capacity to undertake program.
Applicant has sufficient capacity, including staff resources, to undertake the program.
(c) VA will award up to 15 points based on the applicant's quality assurance and evaluation plan, as demonstrated by the following:
(1)
Program evaluation.
(i) Applicant has created clear, realistic, and measurable goals that reflect the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program's aim of reducing and preventing homelessness among very low-income veteran families against which the applicant's program performance can be evaluated.
(ii) Applicant plans to continually assess the program.
(2)
Monitoring.
(i) Applicant has adequate controls in place to regularly monitor the program, including any subcontractors, for compliance with all applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines.
(ii) Applicant has adequate financial and operational controls in place to ensure the proper use of supportive services grant funds.
(iii) Applicant has a plan for ensuring that the applicant's staff and any subcontractors are appropriately trained and stays informed of industry trends and the requirements of this part.
(3)
Remediation.
Applicant has a plan to establish a system to remediate non-compliant aspects of the program if and when they are identified.
(4)
Management and reporting.
Applicant's program management team has the capability and a system in place to provide to VA timely and accurate reports at the frequency set by VA.
(d) VA will award up to 15 points based on the applicant's financial capability and plan, as demonstrated by the following:
(1)
Organizational finances.
Applicant, and any identified subcontractors, are financially stable.
(2)
Financial feasibility of program.
(i) Applicant has a realistic plan for obtaining all funding required to operate the program for the time period of the supportive services grant.
(ii) Applicant's program is cost-effective and can be effectively implemented on-budget.
(e) VA will award up to 10 points based on the applicant's area or community linkages and relations, as demonstrated by the following:
(1)
Area or community linkages.
Applicant has a plan for developing or has existing linkages with Federal (including VA), State, local, and tribal government agencies, and private entities for the purposes of providing additional services to participants.
(2)
Past working relationships.
Applicant (or applicant's staff), and any identified subcontractors (or subcontractors' staff), have fostered successful working relationships and linkages with public and private organizations providing services to veterans or very low-income families in need of services similar to the supportive services.
(3)
Local presence and knowledge.
(i) Applicant has a presence in the area or community to be served by the applicant.
(ii) Applicant understands the dynamics of the area or community to be served by the applicant.
(4)
Integration of linkages and program concept.
Applicant's linkages to the area or community to be served by the applicant enhance the effectiveness of the applicant's program.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9611, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 62.23
Selecting applicants to receive supportive services grants.
VA will use the following process to select applicants to receive supportive services grants:
(a) VA will score all applicants that meet the threshold requirements set forth in § 62.21 using the scoring criteria set forth in § 62.22.
(b) VA will group applicants within the applicable funding priorities if funding priorities are set forth in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(c) VA will rank those applicants who receive at least the minimum amount of total points and points per category set forth in the Notice of Fund Availability, within their respective funding priority group, if any. The applicants will be ranked in order from highest to lowest scores, within their respective funding priority group, if any.
(d) VA will use the applicant's ranking as the primary basis for selection for funding. However, VA will also use the following considerations to select applicants for funding:
(1) VA will give preference to applicants that provide, or coordinate the provision of, supportive services for very low-income veteran families transitioning from homelessness to permanent housing; and
(2) To the extent practicable, VA will ensure that supportive services grants are equitably distributed across geographic regions, including rural communities and tribal lands.
(e) Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, VA will fund the highest-ranked applicants for which funding is available, within the highest funding priority group, if any. If funding priorities have been established, to the extent funding is available and subject to paragraph (d) of this section, VA will select applicants in the next highest funding priority group based on their rank within that group.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.24
Scoring criteria for grantees applying for renewal of supportive services grants.
VA will use the following criteria to score grantees applying for renewal of a supportive services grant:
(a) VA will award up to 55 points based on the success of the grantee's program, as demonstrated by the following:
(1) Participants made progress in achieving housing stability.
(2) Participants were satisfied with the supportive services provided by the grantee.
(3) The grantee implemented the program and delivered supportive services to participants in a timely manner.
(4) The grantee prevented homelessness among very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing that were most at risk of homelessness.
(5) The grantee's program reduced homelessness among very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing in the area or community served by the grantee.
(b) VA will award up to 30 points based on the cost-effectiveness of the grantee's program, as demonstrated by the following:
(1) The cost per participant household was reasonable.
(2) The grantee's program was effectively implemented on-budget.
(c) VA will award up to 15 points based on the extent to which the grantee's program complies with Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program goals and requirements, as demonstrated by the following:
(1) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with VA's goals for the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program.
(2) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, and guidelines.
(3) The grantee's program was administered in accordance with the grantee's supportive services grant agreement.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.25
Selecting grantees for renewal of supportive services grants.
VA will use the following process to select grantees applying for renewal of supportive services grants:
(a) So long as the grantee continues to meet the threshold requirements set forth in § 62.21, VA will score the grantee using the scoring criteria set forth in § 62.24.
(b) VA will rank those grantees who receive at least the minimum amount of total points and points per category set forth in the Notice of Fund Availability. The grantees will be ranked in order from highest to lowest scores.
(c) VA will use the grantee's ranking as the basis for selection for funding. VA will fund the highest-ranked grantees for which funding is available.
(d) At its discretion, VA may award any non-renewed funds to an applicant or existing grantee. If VA chooses to award non-renewed funds to an applicant or existing grantee, funds will be awarded as follows:
(1) VA will first offer to award the non-renewed funds to the applicant or grantee with the highest grant score under the relevant Notice of Fund Availability that applies for, or is awarded a renewal grant in, the same community as, or a proximate community to, the affected community. Such applicant or grantee must have the capacity and agree to provide prompt services to the affected community. Under this § 62.25, the relevant Notice of Fund Availability is the most recently published Notice of Fund Availability which covers the geographic area that includes the affected community, or for multi-year grant awards, the Notice of Fund Availability for which the grantee, who is offered the additional funds, received the multi-year award.
(2) If the first such applicant or grantee offered the non-renewed funds refuses the funds, VA will offer to award the funds to the next highest-ranked such applicant or grantee, per the criteria in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and continue on in rank order until the non-renewed funds are awarded.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 41526, Sept. 1, 2017]
§ 62.30
Supportive service: Outreach services.
(a) Grantees must provide outreach services and use their best efforts to ensure that hard-to-reach very low-income veteran families occupying permanent housing are found, engaged, and provided supportive services.
(b) Outreach services must include active liaison with local VA facilities, State, local, tribal (if any), and private agencies and organizations providing supportive services to very low-income veteran families in the area or community to be served by the grantee.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.31
Supportive service: Case management services.
Grantees must provide case management services that prioritize housing stability as the primary goal of SSVF services and include, at a minimum:
(a) Performing a careful assessment of participant functions and developing and monitoring case plans in coordination with a formal assessment of supportive services needed, including necessary follow-up activities, to ensure that the participant's needs are adequately addressed;
(b) Establishing linkages with appropriate agencies and service providers in the area or community to help participants obtain needed supportive services;
(c) Providing referrals to participants and related activities (such as scheduling appointments for participants) to help participants obtain needed supportive services, such as medical, social, and educational assistance or other supportive services to address participants' identified needs and goals;
(d) Deciding how resources are allocated to participants on the basis of need;
(e) Educating participants on issues, including, but not limited to, supportive services availability and participant rights; and
(f) Assisting participants in locating, obtaining, and retaining suitable permanent housing. Such activities may include: Identifying appropriate permanent housing and landlords willing to work with homeless veteran families; tenant counseling; mediation with landlords; and outreach to landlords.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9611, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 62.32
Supportive service: Assistance in obtaining VA benefits.
(a) Grantees must assist participants in obtaining any benefits from VA for which the participants are eligible. Such benefits include, but are not limited to:
(1) Vocational and rehabilitation counseling;
(2) Employment and training service;
(3) Educational assistance; and
(4) Health care services.
(b) Grantees are not permitted to represent participants before VA with respect to a claim for VA benefits unless they are recognized for that purpose pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 5902. Employees and members of grantees are not permitted to provide such representation unless the individual providing representation is accredited pursuant to 38 U.S.C. chapter 59.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.33
Supportive service: Assistance in obtaining and coordinating other public benefits.
Grantees must assist participants to obtain and coordinate the provision of other public benefits, including at a minimum those listed in paragraphs (a) through (i) below, that are being provided by Federal, State, local, or tribal agencies, or any eligible entity in the area or community served by the grantee by referring the participant to and coordinating with such entity. If a public benefit is not being provided by Federal, State, local, or tribal agencies, or any eligible entity in the area or community, the grantee is not required to obtain, coordinate, or provide such public benefit. Grantees may also elect to provide directly to participants the public benefits identified in paragraphs (c) through (i) below. When grantees directly provide such benefits, the grantees must comply with the same requirements as a third party provider of such benefits.
(a) Health care services, which include:
(1) Health insurance; and
(2) Referral to a governmental or eligible entity that provides any of the following services:
(i) Hospital care, nursing home care, out-patient care, mental health care, preventive care, habilitative and rehabilitative care, case management, respite care, and home care;
(ii) The training of any very low-income veteran family member in the care of any very low-income veteran family member; and
(iii) The provision of pharmaceuticals, supplies, equipment, devices, appliances, and assistive technology.
(b) Daily living services, which may consist of the referral of a participant,
as appropriate, to an entity that provides services relating to the functions or tasks for self-care usually performed in the normal course of a day, including, but not limited to, eating, bathing, grooming, dressing, and home management activities.
(c) Personal financial planning services, which include, at a minimum, providing recommendations regarding day-to-day finances and achieving long-term budgeting and financial goals. SSVF funds may pay for credit counseling and other services necessary to assist participants with critical skills related to household budgeting, managing money, accessing a free personal credit report, and resolving credit problems.
(d)
Transportation services.
(1) The grantee may provide temporary transportation services directly to participants if the grantee determines such assistance is necessary; however, the preferred method of direct provision of transportation services is the provision of tokens, vouchers, or other appropriate instruments so that participants may use available public transportation options.
(2) If public transportation options are not sufficient within an area or community, costs related to the lease of vehicle(s) may be included in a supportive services grant application if the applicant or grantee, as applicable, agrees that:
(i) The vehicle(s) will be safe, accessible, and equipped to meet the needs of the participants;
(ii) The vehicle(s) will be maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations; and
(iii) All transportation personnel (employees and subcontractors) will be trained in managing any special needs of participants and handling emergency situations.
(3) The grantee may make payments on behalf of a participant needing car repairs or maintenance required to operate the vehicle if the payment will allow the participant to remain in permanent housing or obtain permanent housing, subject to the following:
(i) Payments for car repairs or maintenance on behalf of the participant may not exceed $1,200 during a 3-year period, such period beginning on the date the grantee first pays for any car repairs or maintenance on behalf of the participant.
(ii) Payments for car repairs or maintenance must be reasonable and must be paid by the grantee directly to the third party that repairs or maintains the car.
(iii) Grantees may require participants to share in the cost of car repairs or maintenance as a condition of receiving assistance with car repairs or maintenance.
(e) Income support services, which may consist of providing assistance in obtaining other Federal, State, tribal and local assistance, in the form of, but not limited to, mental health benefits, employment counseling, medical assistance, veterans' benefits, and income support assistance.
(f) Fiduciary and representative payee services, which may consist of acting on behalf of a participant by receiving the participant's paychecks, benefits or other income, and using those funds for the current and foreseeable needs of the participant and saving any remaining funds for the participant's future use in an interest bearing account or saving bonds.
(g) Legal services, including court filing fees, to assist a participant with issues that interfere with the participant's ability to obtain or retain permanent housing or supportive services, including issues that affect the participant's employability and financial security (such as the lack of a driver's license). However, SSVF funds may not be used to pay for court-ordered judgments or fines, pursuant to § 62.38.
(h) Child care for children under the age of 13, unless disabled. Disabled children must be under the age of 18. Child care includes the:
(1) Referral of a participant, as appropriate, to an eligible child care provider that provides child care with sufficient hours of operation and serves appropriate ages, as needed by the participant; and
(2) Payment by a grantee on behalf of a participant for child care by an eligible child care provider.
(i) Payments for child care services must be paid by the grantee directly to an eligible child care provider and cannot exceed a maximum of 6 months in
a 12-month period, and 10 months during a 2-year period, such period beginning on the date that the grantee first pays for child care services on behalf of the participant. For extremely low-income veteran families, payments for child care services on behalf of that participant cannot exceed 9 months in a 12-month period and 12 months during a 2-year period, such period beginning on the date that the grantee first pays for child care services on behalf of the participant.
(iii) Payments for child care services cannot be provided on behalf of participants for the same period of time and for the same cost types that are being provided through another Federal, State or local subsidy program.
(iv) As a condition of providing payments for child care services, the grantee must help the participant develop a reasonable plan to address the participant's future ability to pay for child care services. Grantees must assist the participant to implement such plan by providing any necessary assistance or helping the participant to obtain any necessary public or private benefits or services.
(i) Housing counseling, which includes the provision of counseling relating to the stabilization of a participant's residence in permanent housing. At a minimum, housing counseling includes providing referrals to appropriate local, tribal, State, and Federal resources, and providing counseling, education and outreach directly to participants on the following topics, as appropriate:
(1) Housing search assistance, including the location of vacant units, the scheduling of appointments, viewing apartments, reviewing tenant leases, and negotiating with landlords on behalf of a participant;
(2) Rental and rent subsidy programs;
(3) Federal, State, tribal, or local assistance;
(4) Fair housing;
(5) Landlord tenant laws;
(6) Lease terms;
(7) Rent delinquency;
(8) Resolution or prevention of mortgage delinquency, including, but not limited to, default and foreclosure, loss mitigation, budgeting, and credit; and
(9) Home maintenance and financial management.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9611, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 62.34
Other supportive services.
Grantees may provide the following services which are necessary for maintaining independent living in permanent housing and housing stability:
(a)
Rental assistance.
Payment of rent, penalties or fees to help the participant remain in permanent housing or obtain permanent housing.
(1) A participant may receive rental assistance for a maximum of 10 months during a 2-year period (consecutive or nonconsecutive), such period beginning on the date that the grantee first pays rent on behalf of the participant; however, a participant cannot receive rental assistance for more than 6 months in any 12-month period beginning on the date that the grantee first pays rent on behalf of the participant. For extremely low-income veteran families, payments for rent cannot exceed 9 months in any 12-month period and 12 months during a 2-year period, such period beginning on the date that the grantee first pays rent on behalf of the participant. The rental assistance may be for rental payments that are currently due or are in arrears, and for the payment of penalties or fees incurred by a participant and required to be paid by the participant under an existing lease or court order. In all instances, rental assistance may only be provided if the payment of such rental assistance will directly allow the participant to remain in permanent housing or obtain permanent housing.
(2) Rental assistance must be paid by the grantee directly to the third party to whom rent is owed.
(3) As a condition of providing rental assistance, the grantee must help the participant develop a reasonable plan to address the participant's future ability to pay rent. Grantees must assist the participant to implement such plan by providing any necessary assistance or helping the participant to obtain any necessary public or private benefits or services.
(4) The rental assistance paid by a grantee must be in compliance with the following “rent reasonableness” standard. “Rent reasonableness” means the total rent charged for a unit must be reasonable in relation to the rents being charged during the same time period for comparable units in the private unassisted market and must not be in excess of rents being charged by the property owner during the same time period for comparable non-luxury unassisted units. To make this determination, the grantee should consider:
(i) The location, quality, size, type, and age of the unit; and
(ii) Any amenities, housing services, maintenance, and utilities to be provided by the property owner. Comparable rents can be checked by using a market study, by reviewing comparable units advertised for rent, or using a note from the property owner verifying the comparability of charged rents to other units owned by the property owner. Prior to providing rental assistance in the form of payment of penalties or fees incurred by a participant, the grantee must determine that such penalties or fees are reasonable.
(5) With respect to shared housing arrangements, the rent charged for a participant must be in relation to the size of the private space for that participant in comparison to other private space in the shared unit, excluding common space. A participant may be assigned a pro rata portion based on the ratio derived by dividing the number of bedrooms in their private space by the number of bedrooms in the unit. Participation in shared housing arrangements must be voluntary.
(6) Rental assistance payments cannot be provided on behalf of participants for the same period of time and for the same cost types that are being provided through another Federal housing subsidy program; however, such payments may be provided even though the participant is receiving State and local housing subsidy funds as long as the total subsidy received (including payments under this section) does not exceed the rent.
(7) Grantees may require participants to share in the cost of rent as a condition of receiving rental assistance.
(8) Extremely low-income veteran families and very low-income veteran families who meet the criteria of § 62.11 may be eligible to receive a rental subsidy as follows:
(i) For a 2-year period without recertification.
(ii) The applicable counties will be published annually in the
Federal Register.
A family must live in one of these applicable counties to be eligible for this subsidy. The counties will be chosen based on the cost and availability of affordable housing for both individuals and families within that county.
(iii) The maximum amount of this rental subsidy is 50 percent of reasonable rent as defined by paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Grantees must collaborate with their local Continuum of Care (CoC) as defined at 24 CFR 578.3 to determine the proper subsidy amounts to be used by all grantees in each applicable county.
(iv) Grantees must provide a letter of support from their local CoC to the Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) Program Office when requesting VA approval of this subsidy. The SSVF Program Office must approve all subsidy requests before the subsidy is used.
(v) Very low-income veteran families may receive this subsidy for a period of two years before recertification minus the number of months in which the recipient received the rental assistance provided under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(vi) Extremely low-income veteran families may receive this subsidy for up to a 2-year period before recertification following receipt of rental assistance under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(vii) For any month, the total rental payments provided to a family under this paragraph (a)(8) cannot be more than the total amount of rent. Payment of this subsidy by a grantee must conform to the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(2) through (7) of this section. The rental subsidy amount will not change for the veteran family in the second year of the two-year period, even if the annual amount published changes.
(viii) A veteran family will not need to be recertified as a very low-income veteran family as provided for by § 62.36(a) during the initial two-year period. After an initial two-year period, a family receiving this subsidy, or a combination of the rental assistance under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and this subsidy, may continue to receive rental payments under this section, but would require recertification at that time and once every two years.
(b)
Utility-fee payment assistance.
Payment of utility fees to help the participant to remain in permanent housing or obtain permanent housing.
(1) A participant may receive payments for utilities for a maximum of 10 months during a 2-year period, such period beginning on the date that the grantee first pays utility fees on behalf of the participant; provided, however, that a participant cannot receive payments for utilities for more than 6 months in any 12-month period beginning on the date that the grantee first pays a utility payment on behalf of the participant. For extremely low-income veteran families, payments for utilities cannot exceed 9 months in any 12-month period and 12 months during a 2-year period, such periods beginning on the date that the grantee first pays a utility payment on behalf of the participant. The payment for utilities may be for utility payments that are currently due or are in arrears, provided that the payment of such utilities will allow the participant to remain in permanent housing or obtain permanent housing.
(2) Payments for utilities must be paid by the grantee directly to a utility company. Payments for utilities only will be available if a participant, a legal representative of the participant, or a member of his/her household, has an account in his/her name with a utility company or proof of responsibility to make utility payments, such as cancelled checks or receipts in his/her name from a utility company.
(3) As a condition of providing payments for utilities, the grantee must help the participant develop a reasonable plan to address the participant's future ability to pay utility payments. Grantees must assist the participant to implement such plan by providing any necessary assistance or helping the participant to obtain any necessary public or private benefits or services.
(4) Payments for utilities cannot be provided on behalf of participants for the same period of time and for the same cost types that are being provided through another Federal, State, or local program.
(5) Grantees may require participants to share in the cost of utility payments as a condition of receiving payments for utilities.
(c)
Deposits.
Payment of security deposits or utility deposits to help the participant remain in permanent housing or obtain permanent housing.
(1) A participant may receive assistance with the payment of a security deposit a maximum of one time in every 2-year period, such period beginning on the date the grantee pays a security deposit on behalf of a participant.
(2) A participant may receive assistance with the payment of a utility deposit a maximum of one time in every 2-year period, such period beginning on the date the grantee pays a utility deposit on behalf of a participant.
(3) Any security deposit or utility deposit must be paid by the grantee directly to the third party to whom the security deposit or utility deposit is owed. The payment of such deposit must allow the participant to remain in the participant's existing permanent housing or help the participant to obtain and remain in permanent housing selected by the participant.
(4) As a condition of providing a security deposit payment or a utility deposit payment, the grantee must help the participant develop a reasonable plan to address the participant's future housing stability. Grantees must assist the participant to implement such plan by providing any necessary assistance or helping the participant to obtain any necessary public or private benefits or services.
(5) Security deposits and utility deposits covering the same period of time in which assistance is being provided through another housing subsidy program are eligible, as long as they cover separate cost types.
(6) Grantees may require participants to share in the cost of the security deposit or utility deposit as a condition of receiving assistance with such deposit.
(d)
Moving costs.
Payment of moving costs to help the participant to obtain permanent housing.
(1) A participant may receive assistance with moving costs a maximum of one time in every 3-year period, such period beginning on the date the grantee pays moving costs on behalf of a participant.
(2) Moving costs assistance must be paid by the grantee directly to a third party. Moving costs assistance includes reasonable moving costs, such as truck rental, hiring a moving company, or short-term storage fees for a maximum of 3 months or until the participant is in permanent housing, whichever is shorter.
(3) As a condition of providing moving costs assistance, the grantee must help the participant develop a reasonable plan to address the participant's future housing stability. Grantees must assist the participant to implement such plan by providing any necessary assistance or helping the participant to obtain any necessary public or private benefits or services.
(4) Moving costs assistance payments cannot be provided on behalf of participants for the same period of time and for the same cost types that are being provided through another Federal, State, or local program.
(5) Grantees may require participants to share in the cost of moving as a condition of receiving assistance with moving costs.
(e)
General housing stability assistance.
(1) A grantee may provide to a participant items necessary for a participant's life or safety on a temporary basis, in order to address a participant's emergency situation.
(2) A grantee may pay directly to a third party (and not to a participant), in an amount not to exceed $1,800, per participant during any 2-year period, beginning on the date that the grantee first submits a payment to a third party. This cap will be adjusted annually based on the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI-U). This amount is for the following types of expenses:
(i) Expenses associated with gaining or keeping employment, such as obtaining uniforms, tools, certifications, and licenses.
(ii) Expenses associated with moving into permanent housing, such as obtaining basic kitchen utensils, bedding, and other supplies.
(iii) Expenses necessary for securing appropriate permanent housing, such as fees for housing applications, housing inspections, or background checks.
(3) A grantee may pay directly to a third party (and not to a participant) a reasonable amount for a broker's fee when such a third party has assisted in identifying permanent housing. The reasonableness of a fee will be determined based on conditions in the local housing market.
(f)
Emergency housing assistance.
If permanent housing, appropriate shelter beds and transitional housing are not available and subsequent rental housing has been identified generally but is not immediately available for move-in by the participant, then a grantee may place a participant in emergency housing, subject to the following limitations:
(1) Placement for a single veteran may not exceed 72 hours, unless the grantee can certify that appropriate shelter beds and transitional housing are still unavailable at the end of the 72 hour period.
(2) Placement for a veteran and his or her spouse with dependent(s) may not exceed 60 days.
(3) A participant may be placed in emergency housing only once during any 2-year period, beginning on the date that the grantee first pays for emergency housing on behalf of the participant.
(4) Permanent housing will be available before the end of the period during which the participant is placed in emergency housing.
(5) The cost of the emergency housing must be reasonable in relation to the costs charged for other available emergency housing considering the location, quality, size, and type of the emergency housing.
(g)
Other.
Other services as set forth in the Notice of Fund Availability or as
approved by VA that are consistent with the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program. Applicants may propose additional services in their supportive services grant application, and grantees may propose additional services by submitting a written request to modify the supportive services grant in accordance with § 62.60.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9611, Feb. 24, 2015; 84 FR 45077, Aug. 28, 2019; 86 FR 62485, Nov. 10, 2021]
§ 62.35
Limitations on and continuations of the provision of supportive services to certain participants.
(a)
Extremely low-income veteran families.
A participant classified as an extremely low-income veteran family will retain that designation as long as the participant continues to meet all other eligibility requirements.
(b)
Limitations on the provision of supportive services to participants classified under § 62.11(c).
(1) A grantee may provide supportive services to a participant classified under § 62.11(c) until the earlier of the following dates:
(i) The participant commences receipt of other housing services adequate to meet the participant's needs; or
(ii) Ninety days from the date the participant exits permanent housing.
(2) Supportive services provided to participants classified under § 62.11(c) must be designed to support the participants in their choice to transition into housing that is responsive to their individual needs and preferences.
(c)
Continuation of supportive services to veteran family member(s).
If a veteran becomes absent from a household or dies while other members of the veteran family are receiving supportive services, then such supportive services must continue for a grace period following the absence or death of the veteran. The grantee must establish a reasonable grace period for continued participation by the veteran's family member(s), but that period may not exceed 1 year from the date of absence or death of the veteran, subject to the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. The grantee must notify the veteran's family member(s) of the duration of the grace period.
(d)
Referral for other assistance.
If a participant becomes ineligible to receive supportive services under this section, the grantee must provide the participant with information on other available programs or resources.
(e)
Families fleeing domestic violence.
Notwithstanding the limitations in § 62.34 concerning the maximum amount of assistance a family can receive during defined periods of time, a household may receive additional assistance if it otherwise qualifies for assistance under this Part and is fleeing from a domestic violence situation. A family may qualify for assistance even if the veteran is the aggressor or perpetrator of the domestic violence. Receipt of assistance under this provision resets the tolling period for the limitations on the maximum amount of support that can be provided in a given amount of time under § 62.34.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9612, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 62.36
General operation requirements.
(a)
Eligibility documentation.
Prior to providing supportive services, grantees must verify and document each participant's eligibility for supportive services and classify the participant under one of the categories set forth in § 62.11. Grantees must recertify the participant's eligibility as a very low-income veteran family at least once every 3 months.
(b)
Confidentiality.
Grantees must maintain the confidentiality of records kept on participants. Grantees that provide family violence prevention or treatment services must establish and implement procedures to ensure the confidentiality of:
(1) Records pertaining to any individual provided services, and
(2) The address or location where the services are provided.
(c)
Notifications to participants.
(1) Prior to initially providing supportive services to a participant, the grantee must notify each participant of the following:
(i) The supportive services are being paid for, in whole or in part, by VA;
(ii) The supportive services available to the participant through the grantee's program; and
(iii) Any conditions or restrictions on the receipt of supportive services by the participant.
(2) The grantee must provide each participant with a satisfaction survey, which the participant can submit directly to VA, within 30 days of such participant's pending exit from the grantee's program.
(d)
Assessment of funds.
Grantees must regularly assess how supportive services grant funds can be used in conjunction with other available funds and services to assist participants.
(e)
Administration of supportive services grants.
Grantees must ensure that supportive services grants are administered in accordance with the requirements of this part, the supportive services grant agreement, and other applicable laws and regulations. Grantees are responsible for ensuring that any subcontractors carry out activities in compliance with this part.
(f)
Habitability standards.
(1) Grantees using supportive services grant funds to provide rental assistance, payments of utilities fees, security deposits, or utilities deposits, as set forth under § 62.34, on behalf of a participant moving into a new (different) housing unit will be required to conduct initial and any appropriate follow-up inspections of the housing unit into which the participant will be moving. Such inspections shall ensure that the housing unit meets the conditions set forth in 24 CFR 583.300(b) and do not require the use of a certified inspector. Inspections should occur no later than three (3) working days after the housing unit has been identified to the SSVF grantee, unless the Alternative Inspection Method is used to meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(2)
Alternative inspection method.
An inspection of a property will be valid for purposes of this paragraph if:
(i) The inspection was conducted pursuant to the requirements of a Federal, State, or local housing program (including, but not limited to, the Home investment partnership program under title II of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act or the low-income housing tax credit program under section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986);
(ii) If the inspection was not conducted pursuant to the requirements of a Federal housing program, the public housing agency has certified to the Secretary that such standard or requirement provides the same (or greater) protection to occupants of inspected dwelling units;
(iii) Pursuant to the inspection, the property was determined to meet the requirements regarding housing quality or safety applicable to properties assisted under such program; and
(iv) The inspection was conducted within the past 2 years.
(g)
Continuum of Care coordinated assessment.
Grantees must participate in the development, implementation, and ongoing operations of their local Continuum of Care's coordinated assessment system, or equivalent, as described in the McKinney-Vento Act, as amended by the HEARTH Act (42 U.S.C. 11302).
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0757)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9612, Feb. 24, 2015; 82 FR 41526, Sept. 1, 2017]
§ 62.37
Fee prohibition.
Grantees must not charge a fee to very low-income veteran families for providing supportive services that are funded with amounts from a supportive services grant.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.38
Ineligible activities.
Notwithstanding any other section in this part, grantees are not authorized to use supportive services grant funds to pay for the following:
(a) Mortgage costs or costs needed by homeowners to assist with any fees, taxes, or other costs of refinancing.
(b) Construction or rehabilitation of buildings.
(c) Home care and home health aides typically used to provide care in support of daily living activities. This includes care that is focused on treatment for an injury or illness, rehabilitation, or other assistance generally required to assist those with handicaps or other physical limitations.
(d) Credit card bills or other consumer debt.
(e) Medical or dental care and medicines.
(f) Direct cash assistance to participants.
(g) Court-ordered judgments or fines, except for those supported under § 62.34(a)(1).
(h) Pet care.
(i) Entertainment activities.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[80 FR 9613, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 62.40
Notice of Fund Availability.
When funds are available for supportive services grants, VA will publish a Notice of Fund Availability in the
Federal Register.
The notice will identify:
(a) The location for obtaining supportive services grant applications;
(b) The date, time, and place for submitting completed supportive services grant applications;
(c) The estimated amount and type of supportive services grant funding available;
(d) Any priorities for or exclusions from funding to meet the statutory mandates of 38 U.S.C. 2044 and VA goals for the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program;
(e) The length of term for the supportive services grant award;
(f) The minimum number of total points and points per category that an applicant or grantee, as applicable, must receive in order for a supportive services grant to be funded;
(g) Any maximum uses of supportive services grant funds for specific supportive services;
(h) The timeframes and manner for payments under the supportive services grant; and
(i) Other information necessary for the supportive services grant application process as determined by VA.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.50
Supportive services grant agreements.
(a) After an applicant is selected for a supportive services grant in accordance with § 62.23, VA will draft a supportive services grant agreement to be executed by VA and the applicant. Upon execution of the supportive services grant agreement, VA will obligate supportive services grant funds to cover the amount of the approved supportive services grant, subject to the availability of funding. The supportive services grant agreement will provide that the grantee agrees, and will ensure that each subcontractor agrees, to:
(1) Operate the program in accordance with the provisions of this part and the applicant's supportive services grant application;
(2) Comply with such other terms and conditions, including recordkeeping and reports for program monitoring and evaluation purposes, as VA may establish for purposes of carrying out the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program, in an effective and efficient manner; and
(3) Provide such additional information as deemed appropriate by VA.
(b) After a grantee is selected for renewal of a supportive services grant in accordance with § 62.25, VA will draft a supportive services grant agreement to be executed by VA and the grantee. Upon execution of the supportive services grant agreement, VA will obligate supportive services grant funds to cover the amount of the approved supportive services grant, subject to the availability of funding. The supportive services grant agreement will contain the same provisions described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) No funds provided under this part may be used to replace Federal, State, tribal, or local funds previously used, or designated for use, to assist very low-income veteran families.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.51
Payments under the supportive services grant.
Grantees are to be paid in accordance with the timeframes and manner set
forth in the Notice of Fund Availability.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.60
Program or budget changes and corrective action plans.
(a) A grantee must submit to VA a written request to modify a supportive services grant for any proposed significant change that will alter the supportive services grant program. If VA approves such change, VA will issue a written amendment to the supportive services grant agreement. A grantee must receive VA's approval prior to implementing a significant change. Significant changes include, but are not limited to, a change in the grantee or any subcontractors identified in the supportive services grant agreement; a change in the area or community served by the grantee; additions or deletions of supportive services provided by the grantee; a change in category of participants to be served; and a change in budget line items that are more than 10 percent of the total supportive services grant award.
(1) VA's approval of changes is contingent upon the grantee's amended application retaining a high enough rank to have been competitively selected for funding in the year that the application was granted.
(2) Each supportive services grant modification request must contain a description of the revised proposed use of supportive services grant funds.
(b) VA may require that the grantee initiate, develop and submit to VA for approval a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) if, on a quarterly basis, actual supportive services grant expenditures vary from the amount disbursed to a grantee for that same quarter or actual supportive services grant activities vary from the grantee's program description provided in the supportive services grant agreement.
(1) The CAP must identify the expenditure or activity source that has caused the deviation, describe the reason(s) for the variance, provide specific proposed corrective action(s), and provide a timetable for accomplishment of the corrective action.
(2) After receipt of the CAP, VA will send a letter to the grantee indicating that the CAP is approved or disapproved. If disapproved, VA will make beneficial suggestions to improve the proposed CAP and request resubmission, or take other actions in accordance with this part.
(c) Grantees must inform VA in writing of any key personnel changes (e.g., new executive director, supportive services grant program director, or chief financial officer) and grantee address changes within 30 days of the change.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection provisions in this section under control number 2900-0757)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 9613, Feb. 24, 2015]
§ 62.61
Procedural error.
If an applicant would have been selected but for a procedural error committed by VA, VA may select that applicant for funding when sufficient funds become available if there is no material change in the information that would have resulted in the applicant's selection. A new application will not be required for this purpose.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.62
Faith-based organizations.
(a) Organizations that are faith-based are eligible, on the same basis as any other organization, to participate in the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program under this part. Decisions about awards of Federal financial assistance must be free from political interference or even the appearance of such interference and must be made on the basis of merit, not on the basis of religion or religious belief or lack thereof.
(b)(1) No organization may use direct financial assistance from VA under this part to pay for any of the following:
(i) Explicitly religious activities such as, religious worship, instruction, or proselytization; or
(ii) Equipment or supplies to be used for any of those activities.
(2) For purposes of this section, “indirect Federal financial assistance” means Federal financial assistance in
which a service provider receives program funds through a voucher, certificate, agreement, or other form of disbursement, wholly as a result of the genuinely independent and private choice of a beneficiary, not a choice of the Government. The availability of adequate secular alternatives is a significant factor in determining whether a program affords true private choice. “Direct Federal financial assistance” means Federal financial assistance received by an entity selected by the Government or a pass-through entity as defined in 38 CFR 50.1(d) to provide or carry out a service (
e.g.,
by contract, grant, or cooperative agreement). References to “financial assistance” will be deemed to be references to direct Federal financial assistance, unless the referenced assistance meets the definition of “indirect Federal financial assistance” in this paragraph (b)(2).
(c) Organizations that engage in explicitly religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization, must offer those services separately in time or location from any programs or services funded with direct financial assistance from VA under this part, and participation in any of the organization's explicitly religious activities must be voluntary for the beneficiaries of a program or service funded by direct financial assistance from VA under this part.
(d) A faith-based organization that participates in the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program under this part will retain its independence from Federal, State, or local governments and may continue to carry out its mission, including the definition, practice and expression of its religious beliefs, provided that it does not use direct financial assistance from VA under this part to support any explicitly religious activities, such as worship, religious instruction, or proselytization. Among other things, faith-based organizations may use space in their facilities to provide VA-funded services under this part, without concealing, removing, or altering religious art, icons, scripture, or other religious symbols. In addition, a VA-funded faith-based organization retains its authority over its internal governance, and it may retain religious terms in its organization's name, select its board members and otherwise govern itself on a religious basis, and include religious reference in its organization's mission statements and other governing documents.
(e) An organization that participates in a VA program under this part shall not, in providing direct program assistance, discriminate against a program beneficiary or prospective program beneficiary regarding housing, supportive services, or technical assistance, on the basis of religion, a religious belief, a refusal to hold a religious belief, or a refusal to attend or participate in a religious practice.
(f) If a State or local government voluntarily contributes its own funds to supplement federally funded activities, the State or local government has the option to segregate the Federal funds or commingle them. However, if the funds are commingled, this provision applies to all of the commingled funds.
(g) To the extent otherwise permitted by Federal law, the restrictions on explicitly religious activities set forth in this section do not apply where VA funds are provided to faith-based organizations through indirect assistance wholly as a result of a genuinely independent and private choice of a beneficiary, provided the faith-based organizations otherwise satisfy the requirements of this part. A faith-based organization may receive such funds as the result of a beneficiary's genuine and independent choice if, for example, a beneficiary redeems a voucher, coupon, or certificate, allowing the beneficiary to direct where funds are to be paid, or a similar funding mechanism provided to that beneficiary and designed to give that beneficiary a choice among providers.
[85 FR 82145, Dec. 17, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 15721, Mar. 4, 2024]
§ 62.63
Visits to monitor operations and compliance.
(a) VA has the right, at all reasonable times, to make visits to all grantee locations where a grantee is using supportive services grant funds in order to review grantee accomplishments and management control systems and to provide such technical assistance as may be required. VA may
conduct inspections of all program locations and records of a grantee at such times as are deemed necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of this part. In the event that a grantee delivers services in a participant's home, or at a location away from the grantee's place of business, VA may accompany the grantee. If the grantee's visit is to the participant's home, VA will only accompany the grantee with the consent of the participant. If any visit is made by VA on the premises of the grantee or a subcontractor under the supportive services grant, the grantee must provide, and must require its subcontractors to provide, all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safety and convenience of the VA representatives in the performance of their duties. All visits and evaluations will be performed in such a manner as will not unduly delay services.
(b) The authority to inspect carries with it no authority over the management or control of any applicant or grantee under this part.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.70
Financial management and administrative costs.
(a) Grantees must comply with applicable requirements of the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards under 2 CFR part 200.
(b) Grantees must use a financial management system that provides adequate fiscal control and accounting records and meets the requirements set forth in 2 CFR part 200.
(c) Payment up to the amount specified in the supportive services grant must be made only for allowable, allocable, and reasonable costs in conducting the work under the supportive services grant. The determination of allowable costs must be made in accordance with the applicable Federal Cost Principles set forth in 2 CFR part 200.
(d) Grantees are subject to the Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and other Non-Profit Organizations, codified at 38 CFR Part 49.
(e) Costs for administration by a grantee must not exceed 10 percent of the total amount of the supportive services grant. Administrative costs will consist of all direct and indirect costs associated with the management of the program. These costs will include the administrative costs, both direct and indirect, of subcontractors.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 43323, July 22, 2015]
§ 62.71
Grantee reporting requirements.
(a) VA may require grantees to provide, in such form as may be prescribed, such reports or answers in writing to specific questions, surveys, or questionnaires as VA determines necessary to carry out the Supportive Services for Veteran Families Program.
(b) If, on a quarterly basis, actual supportive services grant expenditures vary from the amount disbursed to a grantee for that same quarter or actual supportive services grant activities vary from the grantee's program description provided in the supportive services grant agreement, grantees must report the deviation to VA.

# Note to paragraph (
b

# ):
For information on corrective action plans, which may be required in this circumstance,
see
§ 62.60.
(c) At least once per year, or at the frequency set by VA, each grantee must submit to VA a report containing information relating to operational effectiveness, fiscal responsibility, supportive services grant agreement compliance, and legal and regulatory compliance, including a description of the use of supportive services grant funds, the number of participants assisted, the types of supportive services provided, and any other information that VA may request.
(d) Grantees must relate financial data to performance data and develop unit cost information whenever practical.
(e) All pages of the reports must cite the assigned supportive services grant number and be submitted in a timely manner.
(f) Grantees must provide VA with consent to post information from reports on the Internet and use such information in other ways deemed appropriate by VA. Grantees shall clearly mark information that is confidential to individual participants.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.72
Recordkeeping.
Grantees must ensure that records are maintained for at least a 3-year period to document compliance with this part. Grantees must produce such records at VA's request.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
§ 62.73
Technical assistance.
VA will provide technical assistance, as necessary, to eligible entities to meet the requirements of this part. Such technical assistance will be provided either directly by VA or through grants or contracts with appropriate public or non-profit private entities.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044, 2064)
§ 62.80
Withholding, suspension, deobligation, termination, and recovery of funds by VA.
(a)
Recovery of funds.
VA will recover from the grantee any supportive services grant funds that are not used in accordance with the requirements of this part. VA will issue to the grantee a notice of intent to recover supportive services grant funds. The grantee will then have 30 days to submit documentation demonstrating why the supportive services grant funds should not be recovered. After review of all submitted documentation, VA will determine whether action will be taken to recover the supportive services grant funds.
(b)
VA actions when grantee fails to comply.
When a grantee fails to comply with the terms, conditions, or standards of the supportive services grant, VA may, on 7-days notice to the grantee, withhold further payment, suspend the supportive services grant, or prohibit the grantee from incurring additional obligations of supportive services grant funds, pending corrective action by the grantee or a decision to terminate in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. VA will allow all necessary and proper costs that the grantee could not reasonably avoid during a period of suspension if such costs meet the provisions of the applicable Federal Cost Principles.
(c)
Termination.
Supportive services grants may be terminated in whole or in part only if paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section apply.
(1) By VA, if a grantee materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of a supportive services grant award and this part.
(2) By VA with the consent of the grantee, in which case VA and the grantee will agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated.
(3) By the grantee upon sending to VA written notification setting forth the reasons for such termination, the effective date, and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. However, if VA determines in the case of partial termination that the reduced or modified portion of the supportive services grant will not accomplish the purposes for which the supportive services grant was made, VA may terminate the supportive services grant in its entirety under either paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(d)
Deobligation of funds.
(1) VA may deobligate all or a portion of the amounts approved for use by a grantee if:
(i) The activity for which funding was approved is not provided in accordance with the approved application and the requirements of this part;
(ii) Such amounts have not been expended within a 1-year period from the date of the signing of the supportive services grant agreement;
(iii) Other circumstances set forth in the supportive services grant agreement authorize or require deobligation.
(2) At its discretion, VA may re-advertise in a Notice of Fund Availability the availability of funds that have been deobligated under this section or award deobligated funds to an applicant or existing grantee. If VA chooses to award deobligated funds to an applicant or existing grantee, funds will be awarded as follows:
(i) VA will first offer to award the deobligated funds to the applicant or grantee with the highest grant score under the relevant Notice of Fund Availability that applied for or was awarded funds in the same community as, or proximate community to, the affected community. Such applicant or grantee must have the capacity and agree to provide prompt services to the affected community. Under this section the relevant Notice of Fund Availability is the most recently published Notice of Fund Availability which covers the geographic area that includes the affected community, or for multi-year grant awards, the most recently published Notice of Fund Availability which covers the geographic area that includes the affected community for which the grantee, who is offered the additional funds, received the multi-year award.
(ii) If the first such applicant or grantee offered the deobligated funds refuses the funds, VA will offer to award funds to the next highest-ranked such applicant or grantee, per to the criteria in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, and continue on in rank order until all deobligated funds are awarded.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
[75 FR 68979, Nov. 10, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 41526, Sept. 1, 2017]
§ 62.81
Supportive services grant closeout procedures.
Supportive services grants will be closed out in accordance with the following procedures upon the date of completion:
(a) No later than 90 days after the date of completion, the grantee must refund to VA any unobligated (unencumbered) balance of supportive services grant funds that are not authorized by VA to be retained by the grantee.
(b) No later than 90 days after the date of completion, the grantee must submit all financial, performance and other reports required by VA to closeout the supportive services grant. VA may authorize extensions when requested by the grantee.
(c) If a final audit has not been completed prior to the date of completion, VA retains the right to recover an appropriate amount after considering the recommendations on disallowed costs once the final audit has been completed.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2044)
Pt. 63

# PART 63—HEALTH CARE FOR HOMELESS VETERANS (HCHV) PROGRAM
Sec.
63.1
Purpose and scope.
63.2
Definitions.
63.3
Eligible veterans.
63.10
Selection of non-VA community-based providers.
63.15
Duties of, and standards applicable to, non-VA community-based providers.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 501, 2031, and as noted in specific sections.

# Source:
76 FR 52578, Aug. 23, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 63.1
Purpose and scope.
This part implements the Health Care for Homeless Veterans (HCHV) program. This program provides per diem payments to non-VA community-based facilities that provide housing, outreach services, case management services, and rehabilitative services, and may provide care and/or treatment to all eligible homeless veterans.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2031(a)(2))
[80 FR 24821, May 1, 2015]
§ 63.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part:
Case management
means arranging, coordinating, or providing direct clinical services and support; referring and providing linkage to VA and non-VA resources, providing crisis management services and monitoring; and intervening and advocating on behalf of veterans to support transportation, credit, legal, and other needs.
Clinician
means a physician, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, psychiatrist, psychologist, or other independent licensed practitioner.
Homeless
has the meaning given that term in paragraphs (1) through (3) of the definition of homeless in 24 CFR 576.2.
Non-VA community-based provider
means a facility in a community that provides temporary, short-term housing (generally up to 6 months) for the
homeless, as well as community outreach, case management, and rehabilitative services, and, as needed, basic mental health services.
Participant
means an eligible veteran under § 63.3 for whom VA is paying per diem to a non-VA community-based provider.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2002, 2031)
[76 FR 52578, Aug. 23, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 24821, May 1, 2015]
§ 63.3
Eligible veterans.
(a)
Eligibility.
In order to serve as the basis for a per diem payment through the HCHV program, a veteran served by the non-VA community-based provider must be:
(1) Enrolled in the VA health care system, or eligible for VA health care under 38 CFR 17.36 or 17.37; and
(2) Homeless.
(b)
Priority veterans.
In allocating HCHV program resources, VA will give priority to veterans, in the following order, who:
(1) Are new to the VA health care system as a result of VA outreach efforts, and to those referred to VA by community agencies that primarily serve the homeless population, such as shelters, homeless day centers, and soup kitchens.
(2) Have service-connected disabilities.
(3) All other veterans.
(c) VA will refer a veteran to a non-VA community-based provider after VA determines the veteran's eligibility and priority.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2031)
[76 FR 52578, Aug. 23, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 24821, May 1, 2015]
§ 63.10
Selection of non-VA community-based providers.
(a)
Who can apply.
VA may award per diem contracts to non-VA community-based providers who provide temporary residential assistance homeless persons, including but not limited to persons with serious mental illness, and who can provide the specific services and meet the standards identified in § 63.15 and elsewhere in this part.
(b)
Awarding contracts.
Contracts for services authorized under this section will be awarded in accordance with applicable VA and Federal procurement procedures in 48 CFR chapters 1 and 8. Such contracts will be awarded only after the quality, effectiveness and safety of the applicant's program and facilities have been ascertained to VA's satisfaction, and then only to applicants determined by VA to meet the requirements of this part.
(c)
Per diem rates and duration of contract periods.
(1) Per diem rates are to be negotiated as a contract term between VA and the non-VA community-based provider; however, the negotiated rate must be based on local community needs, standards, and practices.
(2) Contracts with non-VA community-based providers will establish the length of time for which VA may pay per diem based on an individual veteran; however, VA will not authorize the payment of per diem for an individual veteran for a period of more than 6 months absent extraordinary circumstances.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2031)
[76 FR 52578, Aug. 23, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 24821, May 1, 2015]
§ 63.15
Duties of, and standards applicable to, non-VA community-based providers.
A non-VA community-based provider must meet all of the standards and provide the appropriate services identified in this section, as well as any additional requirements set forth in a specific contract.
(a)
Facility safety requirements.
The facility must meet all applicable safety requirements set forth in 38 CFR 17.81(a).
(b)
Treatment plans, therapeutic/rehabilitative services, and case management.
Individualized treatment plans are to be developed through a joint effort of the veteran, non-VA community-based provider staff, and VA clinical staff. Therapeutic and rehabilitative services, as well as case management and outreach services, must be provided by the non-VA community-based provider as described in the treatment plan. In some cases, VA may complement the non-VA community-based provider's program with added treatment or other services, such as participation in VA outpatient programs or counseling. In addition to case management services,
for example, to coordinate or address relevant issues related to a veteran's homelessness and health as identified in the individual treatment plan, services provided by the non-VA community-based provider should generally include, as appropriate:
(1) Structured group activities such as group therapy, social skills training, self-help group meetings, or peer counseling.
(2) Professional counseling, including counseling on self-care skills, adaptive coping skills, and, as appropriate, vocational rehabilitation counseling, in collaboration with VA programs and community resources.
(c)
Quality of life, room and board.
(1) The non-VA community-based provider must provide residential room and board in an environment that promotes a lifestyle free of substance abuse.
(2) The environment must be conducive to social interaction, supportive of recovery models and the fullest development of the resident's rehabilitative potential.
(3) Residents must be assisted in maintaining an acceptable level of personal hygiene and grooming.
(4) Residential programs must provide laundry facilities.
(5) VA will give preference to facilities located close to public transportation and/or areas that provide employment.
(6) The program must promote community interaction, as demonstrated by the nature of scheduled activities or by information about resident involvement with community activities, volunteers, and local consumer services.
(7) Adequate meals must be provided in a setting that encourages social interaction; nutritious snacks between meals and before bedtime must be available.
(d)
Staffing.
The non-VA community-based provider must employ sufficient professional staff and other personnel to carry out the policies and procedures of the program. There will be at a minimum, an employee on duty on the premises, or residing at the program and available for emergencies, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Staff interaction with residents should convey an attitude of genuine concern and caring.
(e)
Inspections.
(1) VA must be permitted to conduct an initial inspection prior to the award of the contract and follow-up inspections of the non-VA community-based provider's facility and records. At inspections, the non-VA community-based provider must make available the documentation described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(2) If problems are identified as a result of an inspection, VA will establish a plan of correction and schedule a follow-up inspection to ensure that the problems are corrected. Contracts will not be awarded or renewed until noted deficiencies have been eliminated to the satisfaction of the inspector.
(3) Non-VA community-based providers must keep sufficient documentation to support a finding that they comply with this section, including accurate records of participants' lengths of stay, and these records must be made available at all VA inspections.
(4) Inspections under this section may be conducted without prior notice.
(f)
Rights of veteran participants.
The non-VA community-based provider must comply with all applicable patients' rights provisions set forth in 38 CFR 17.33.
(g)
Services and supplies.
VA per diem payments under this part will include the services specified in the contract and any other services or supplies normally provided without extra charge to other participants in the non-VA community-based provider's program.
(The Office of Management and Budget has approved the information collection requirement in this section under control number 2900-0091)
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 2031)
[76 FR 52578, Aug. 23, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 24821, May 1, 2015]
Pt. 64

# PART 64—GRANTS FOR THE RURAL VETERANS COORDINATION PILOT (RVCP)
Sec.
64.0
Purpose and scope.
64.2
Definitions.
64.4
RVCP grants—general.
64.6
Permissible uses of RVCP grants.
64.8
Notice of Funds Availability (NOFA).
64.10
Application.
64.12
Scoring and selection.
64.14
RVCP grant agreement.
64.16
Reporting.
64.18
Recovery of funds.

# Authority:
38 U.S.C. 501, 523
note.

# Source:
78 FR 12619, Feb. 25, 2013, unless otherwise noted.
§ 64.0
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The Rural Veterans Coordination Pilot (RVCP) program implements the requirements of section 506 of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 to provide grants to community-based organizations and local and State government entities to assist veterans who are transitioning from military service to civilian life in rural or underserved communities and families of such veterans.
(b)
Scope.
This part applies only to the administration of the RVCP, unless specifically provided otherwise.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 523 note)
§ 64.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part and any Notice of Funds Availability issued under this part:
Applicant
means an eligible entity that submits an application for an RVCP grant as announced in a Notice of Funds Availability.
Community-based organization
means a group that represents a community or a significant segment of a community and is engaged in meeting community needs.
Eligible entity
means a community-based organization or local or State government entity. An eligible entity will be identified as the legal entity whose employer identification number is on the Application for Federal Assistance (SF 424), even if only a particular component of the broader entity is applying for the RVCP grant.
Grantee
means recipient of an RVCP grant.
Limited access to health care
means residing in an area identified by the Health Resources and Services Administration of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services as “medically underserved” or having a “medically underserved population.”
Local government
means a county, municipality, city, town, township, or regional government or its components.
Minority group member
means an individual who is Asian American; Black; Hispanic; Native American (including American Indian, Alaskan Native, and Native Hawaiian); or Pacific-Islander American.
Notice of Funds Availability (NOFA)
means a Notice published by VA in the
Federal Register
alerting eligible entities of the availability of RVCP grants and containing important information about the RVCP grant application process in accordance with § 64.8.
Participant
means a veteran or a member of a veteran's family who receives services for which an RVCP grant is awarded.
Rural
means an area classified as “rural” by the U.S. Census Bureau.
Rural Veterans Coordination Pilot (RVCP)
refers to the pilot grant program authorized by section 506 of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010.
State government
means any of the fifty States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a State government.
Underserved communities
are areas that meet one or more of the following criteria:
(1) Have a high proportion of minority group representation;
(2) Have a high proportion of individuals who have limited access to health care; or
(3) Have no active duty military installation that is reasonably accessible to the community.
VA
means the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
Veteran
means a person who served in active military, naval, or air service, who was discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable.
Veteran who is transitioning from military service to civilian life
means a veteran who is separating from active military, naval, or air service in the Armed Forces to return to life as a civilian and such veteran's date of discharge or release from active military, naval, or air service was not more than
2 years prior to the date on which the RVCP grant was awarded.
Veteran's family
means those individuals who reside with the veteran in the veteran's primary residence. These individuals include a parent, a spouse, a child, a step-family member, an extended family member, and individuals who reside in the home with the veteran but are not a member of the family of the veteran.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 523 note)
§ 64.4
RVCP grants—general.
(a) VA will award five RVCP grants to eligible entities as defined in § 64.2.
(b) An eligible entity may receive only one RVCP grant, and only one RVCP grant will be awarded in any one pilot project location (see § 64.12(a)(6)).
(c) RVCP grants will be awarded for a maximum period of 2 years, beginning on the date on which the RVCP grants are awarded. They will not be extended or renewable.
(d) A grantee will not be required to provide matching funds as a condition of receiving an RVCP grant.
(e) No participant will be charged a fee for services provided by the grantee or be required to participate in other activities sponsored by the grantee as a condition of receiving services for which the RVCP grant is made.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 523 note)
§ 64.6
Permissible uses of RVCP grants.
(a) Grantees must maximize the use of RVCP grants by ensuring that at least 90 percent of funds awarded are used to provide services designed to aid in the adjustment to civilian life in one or more of the following areas:
(1)
Increasing coordination of health care and benefits for veterans.
Examples include, but are not limited to, identifying sources of community, local, State, and Federal health care and benefits; obtaining necessary applications and assisting veterans in the preparation of applications for such care and benefits; and identifying and eliminating barriers to receiving identified benefits.
(2)
Increasing availability of high quality medical and mental health services.
Examples include, but are not limited to, increasing availability of or access to insurance or low- or no-cost public or private health care, including out-patient care, preventive care, hospital care, nursing home care, rehabilitative care, case management, respite care, and home care; providing assistance in accessing or using telehealth services; transporting veterans to medical facilities or transporting medical or mental health providers to veterans; and providing assistance in obtaining necessary pharmaceuticals, supplies, equipment, devices, appliances, and assistive technology.
(3)
Providing assistance to families of transitioning veterans.
Examples include, but are not limited to, helping obtain medical insurance for family members; helping the family obtain suitable housing; providing job-search assistance or removing barriers for family members seeking employment; assisting the family in identifying and applying to appropriate schools and/or child care programs; securing learning aids such as textbooks, computers and laboratory supplies; and obtaining personal financial and legal services.
(4)
Outreach to veterans and families.
Examples include, but are not limited to, the provision, development or deployment of various media tools (e.g., Internet, television, radio, flyers, posters, etc.), activity days, program booths, or other strategies to reach transitioning veterans and their families in the target community and assist them with their transition from military service to civilian life. Outreach services may be provided directly by the RVCP grantee or the grantee may engage the outreach services of another entity using RVCP funds.
(b) Grantees may use up to 10 percent of the RVCP grant for indirect costs,
i.e.
, the expenses of doing business that are not readily identified with a particular grant but are necessary for the general operation of the grantee organization and the conduct of activities it performs.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 523 note)
§ 64.8
Notice of Funds Availability (NOFA).
When funds are available for RVCP grants, VA will publish a NOFA in the
Federal Register
and in Grants.gov
(
http://www.grants.gov
). The NOFA will identify:
(a) The location for obtaining RVCP grant applications, including the specific forms that will be required;
(b) The date, time, and place for submitting completed RVCP grant applications;
(c) The estimated total amount of funds available and the maximum funds available to a single grantee;
(d) The minimum number of total points and points per category that an applicant must receive to be considered for a grant and information regarding the scoring process;
(e) Any timeframes and manner for payments under the RVCP grant; and
(f) Other information necessary for the RVCP grant application process, as determined by VA, including contact information for the office that will oversee the RVCP within VA.
(Authority: 38 U.S.C. 501, 523 note)
§ 64.10
Application.
