(6) The numerical level of the applicable emission standards. For example, an engine family may not include engines certified to different family emission limits, though you may change family emission limits without recertifying as specified in § 1045.225.
(c) You may subdivide a group of engines that is identical under paragraph (b) of this section into different engine families if you show the expected emission characteristics are different during the useful life.
(d) You may group engines that are not identical with respect to the things listed in paragraph (b) of this section into the same engine family, as follows:
(1) In unusual circumstances, you may group such engines into the same engine family if you show that their emission characteristics during the useful life will be similar.
(2) If you are a small-volume engine manufacturer, you may group all your high-performance engines into a single engine family.
(3) The provisions of this paragraph (e) do not exempt any engines from meeting all the emission standards and requirements in subpart B of this part.
(e) You may certify dual-fuel or flexible-fuel engines in a single engine family. You may include dedicated-fuel versions of this same engine model in the same engine family, as long as they are identical to the engine configuration with respect to that fuel type for the dual-fuel or flexible-fuel version of the engine. For example, if you produce an engine that can alternately run on gasoline and natural gas, you can include the gasoline-only and natural gas-only versions of the engine in the same engine family as the dual-fuel engine if engine operation on each fuel type is identical with or without installation of components for operating on the other fuel.
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23019, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1045.235
What emission testing must I perform for my application for a certificate of conformity?
This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in §§ 1045.103 and 1045.105. See § 1045.205(p) regarding emission testing related to the not-to-exceed standards. See §§ 1045.240 and 1045.245 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, regarding service accumulation before emission testing.
(a) Select an emission-data engine from each engine family for testing as described in 40 CFR 1065.401. Select the engine with a configuration that is most likely to exceed the exhaust emission standards, using good engineering judgment. Consider the emission levels of all exhaust constituents over the full useful life of the engine when operated in a vessel.
(b) Test your emission-data engines using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part. In the case of dual-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with each type of fuel for which you intend to certify the engine. In the case of flexible-fuel engines, measure emissions
when operating with the fuel mixture that is most likely to cause the engine to exceed the applicable HC + NO
X
emission standard, though you may ask us to exclude fuel mixtures that you can show are not likely to occur in use.
(c) We may measure emissions from any of your emission-data engines or other engines from the engine family, as follows:
(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the engine to a test facility we designate. The engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.
(2) If we measure emissions on one of your engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.
(3) We may set the adjustable parameters of your engine to any point within the physically adjustable ranges (see § 1045.115(e)).
(4) We may calibrate your engine within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, this would apply where we determine that an engine parameter is not an adjustable parameter (as defined in § 1045.801) but that it is subject to production variability.
(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:
(1) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year or other characteristics unrelated to emissions.
(2) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data engine under paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements of this part that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification.
(e) We may require you to test another engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the engine(s) tested under paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.
(g) Measure CO
2
and CH
4
with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2011 and 2012 model years, respectively. Also measure N
2
O with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2013 model year for any engine family that depends on NO
X
aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit measurement of N
2
O and CH
4
. These measurements are not required for NTE testing. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for each constituent. Round the final values as follows:
(1) Round CO
2
to the nearest 1 g/kW-hr.
(2) Round N
2
O to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.
(3) Round CH
4
to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 56510, Oct. 30, 2009; 86 FR 34514, June 29, 2021]
§ 1045.240
How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?
(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the duty-cycle emission standards in § 1045.103 or § 1045.105 if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within
the family used to establish deterioration factors. Note that your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply if you participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part.
See
paragraph (e) of this section for provisions related to demonstrating compliance with NTE standards.
(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply with the duty-cycle emission standards in § 1045.103 or § 1045.105 if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard. Similarly, your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing any emission level above the applicable not-to-exceed emission standard for any pollutant. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.
(c) Determine a deterioration factor to compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable emission standards. Section 1045.245 specifies how to test engines to develop deterioration factors that represent the expected deterioration in emissions over your engines' full useful life. Your deterioration factors must take into account any available data from in-use testing with similar engines. You may ask us to give you an assigned deterioration factor for your high-performance engines. Small-volume engine manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish for any engine families certified under this part. Apply deterioration factors as follows:
(1)
Additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions.
For engines that do not use aftertreatment technology, use an additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions. An additive deterioration factor is the difference between exhaust emissions at the end of useful life and exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. Adjust the official emission results for each tested engine at the selected test point by adding the factor to the measured emissions. If the deterioration factor is less than zero, use zero. Additive deterioration factors must be specified to one more decimal place than the emission standard.
(2)
Multiplicative deterioration factor for exhaust emissions.
For engines that use aftertreatment technology, such as catalytic converters, use a multiplicative deterioration factor for exhaust emissions. A multiplicative deterioration factor is the ratio of exhaust emissions at the end of useful life to exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. Adjust the official emission results for each tested engine at the selected test point by multiplying the measured emissions by the deterioration factor. If the deterioration factor is less than one, use one. Multiplicative deterioration factors must be specified to one more significant figure than the emission standard.
(d) Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine. In the case of HC + NO
X
standards, add the official emission results and apply the deterioration factor to the sum of the pollutants before rounding. However, if your deterioration factors are based on emission measurements that do not cover the vehicle's full useful life, apply the deterioration factor to each pollutant and then add the results before rounding.
(e) Use good engineering judgment to demonstrate compliance with NTE standards throughout the useful life. You may, but are not required to, apply the same deterioration factors used to show compliance with the applicable duty-cycle standards.
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23019, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1045.245
How do I determine deterioration factors from exhaust durability testing?
This section describes how to determine deterioration factors, either with
pre-existing test data or with new emission measurements.
(a) You may ask us to approve deterioration factors for an engine family based on emission measurements from similar engines if you have already given us these data for certifying the other engines in the same or earlier model years. Use good engineering judgment to decide whether the two engines are similar.
(b) If you are unable to determine deterioration factors for an engine family under paragraph (a) of this section, select engines, subsystems, or components for testing. Determine deterioration factors based on service accumulation and related testing. Include consideration of wear and other causes of deterioration expected under typical consumer use, including exposure to saltwater if applicable. Determine deterioration factors as follows:
(1) You must measure emissions from the emission-data engine at a low-hour test point and the end of the useful life. You may also test at evenly spaced intermediate points. Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the emission standard.
(2) Operate the engine over a representative duty cycle for a period at least as long as the useful life (in hours). You may operate the engine continuously. You may also use an engine installed in a vessel to accumulate service hours instead of running the engine only in the laboratory.
(3) In the case of dual-fuel or flexible-fuel engines, you may accumulate service hours on a single emission-data engine using the type or mixture of fuel expected to have the highest combustion and exhaust temperatures. For dual-fuel engines, you must measure emissions on each fuel type at each test point.
(4) You may perform maintenance on emission-data engines as described in § 1045.125 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E.
(5) If you measure emissions at only two points to calculate your deterioration factor, base your calculations on a linear relationship connecting these two data points for each pollutant. If you measure emissions at three or more points, use a linear least-squares fit of your test data for each pollutant to calculate your deterioration factor.
(6) If you test more than one engine to establish deterioration factors, calculate the deterioration factor for each engine and average the deterioration factors from all the engines before rounding.
(7) Use good engineering judgment for all aspects of the effort to establish deterioration factors under this paragraph (b).
(8) You may use other testing methods to determine deterioration factors, consistent with good engineering judgment, as long as we approve those methods in advance.
(c) Include the following information in your application for certification:
(1) If you determine your deterioration factors based on test data from a different engine family, explain why this is appropriate and include all the emission measurements on which you base the deterioration factor.
(2) If you do testing to determine deterioration factors, describe the form and extent of service accumulation, including the method you use to accumulate hours.
§ 1045.250
What records must I keep and what reports must I send to EPA?
(a) Send the Designated Compliance Officer information related to your U.S.-directed production volumes as described in § 1045.345. In addition, within 45 days after the end of the model year, you must send us a report describing information about engines you produced during the model year as follows:
(1) State the total production volume for each engine family that is not subject to reporting under § 1045.345.
(2) State the total production volume for any engine family for which you produce engines after completing the reports required in § 1045.345.
(3) For production volumes you report under this paragraph (a), identify whether or not the figures include California sales. Include a separate count of production volumes for California sales if those figures are available.
(b) Organize and maintain the following records:
(1) A copy of all applications and any summary information you send us.
(2) Any of the information we specify in § 1045.205 that you were not required to include in your application.
(3) A detailed history of each emission-data engine. For each engine, describe all of the following:
(i) The emission-data engine's construction, including its origin and buildup, steps you took to ensure that it represents production engines, any components you built specially for it, and all the components you include in your application for certification.
(ii) How you accumulated engine operating hours (service accumulation), including the dates and the number of hours accumulated.
(iii) All maintenance, including modifications, parts changes, and other service, and the dates and reasons for the maintenance.
(iv) All your emission tests, including documentation on routine and standard tests, as specified in part 40 CFR part 1065, and the date and purpose of each test.
(v) All tests to diagnose engine or emission control performance, giving the date and time of each and the reasons for the test.
(vi) Any other significant events.
(4) Production figures for each engine family divided by assembly plant.
(5) Keep a list of engine identification numbers for all the engines you produce under each certificate of conformity.
(c) Keep data from routine emission tests (such as test cell temperatures and relative humidity readings) for one year after we issue the associated certificate of conformity. Keep all other information specified in this section for eight years after we issue your certificate.
(d) Store these records in any format and on any media as long as you can promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. You must keep these records readily available. We may review them at any time.
§ 1045.255
What decisions may EPA make regarding a certificate of conformity?
(a) If we determine an application is complete and shows that the engine family meets all the requirements of this part and the Clean Air Act, we will issue a certificate of conformity for the engine family for that model year. We may make the approval subject to additional conditions.
(b) We may deny an application for certification if we determine that an engine family fails to comply with emission standards or other requirements of this part or the Clean Air Act. We will base our decision on all available information. If we deny an application, we will explain why in writing.
(c) In addition, we may deny your application or suspend or revoke a certificate of conformity if you do any of the following:
(1) Refuse to comply with any testing or reporting requirements in this part.
(2) Submit false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting an application that causes submitted information to be false or incomplete.
(3) Cause any test data to become inaccurate.
(4) Deny us from completing authorized activities (see 40 CFR 1068.20). This includes a failure to provide reasonable assistance.
(5) Produce engines for importation into the United States at a location where local law prohibits us from carrying out authorized activities.
(6) Fail to supply requested information or amend an application to include all engines being produced.
(7) Take any action that otherwise circumvents the intent of the Clean Air Act or this part.
(d) We may void a certificate of conformity if you fail to keep records, send reports, or give us information as required under this part or the Clean Air Act. Note that these are also violations of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2).
(e) We may void a certificate of conformity if we find that you intentionally submitted false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting an application that causes submitted information to
be false or incomplete after submission.
(f) If we deny an application or suspend, revoke, or void a certificate, you may ask for a hearing (see § 1045.820).
[86 FR 34514, June 29, 2021]

# Subpart D—Testing Production-line Engines
§ 1045.301
When must I test my production-line engines?
(a) If you produce engines that are subject to the requirements of this part, you must test them as described in this subpart, except as follows:
(1) Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit testing under this subpart.
(2) We may exempt engine families with a projected U.S.-directed production volume below 150 units from routine testing under this subpart. Request this exemption in your application for certification and include your basis for projecting a production volume below 150 units. We will approve your request if we agree that you have made good-faith estimates of your production volumes. Your exemption is approved when we grant your certificate. You must promptly notify us if your actual production exceeds 150 units during the model year. If you exceed the production limit or if there is evidence of a nonconformity, we may require you to test production-line engines under this subpart, or under 40 CFR part 1068, subpart E, even if we have approved an exemption under this paragraph (a)(2).
(3) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to sterndrive/inboard engines.
(b) We may suspend or revoke your certificate of conformity for certain engine families if your production-line engines do not meet the requirements of this part or you do not fulfill your obligations under this subpart (see §§ 1045.325 and 1045.340).
(c) Other regulatory provisions authorize us to suspend, revoke, or void your certificate of conformity, or order recalls for engine families, without regard to whether they have passed these production-line testing requirements. The requirements of this subpart do not affect our ability to do selective enforcement audits, as described in 40 CFR part 1068. Individual engines in families that pass these production-line testing requirements must also conform to all applicable regulations of this part and 40 CFR part 1068.
(d) You may use alternate programs for testing production-line engines in the following circumstances:
(1) You may use analyzers and sampling systems that meet the field-testing requirements of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart J, but not the otherwise applicable requirements in 40 CFR part 1065 for laboratory testing, to demonstrate compliance with duty-cycle emission standards if you double the minimum sampling rate specified in § 1045.310(b). Use measured test results to determine whether engines comply with applicable standards without applying a measurement allowance. This alternate program does not require prior approval but we may disallow use of this option where we determine that use of field-grade equipment would prevent you from being able to demonstrate that your engines are being produced to conform to the specifications in your application for certification.
(2) You may ask to use another alternate program for testing production-line engines. In your request, you must show us that the alternate program gives equal assurance that your products meet the requirements of this part. We may waive some or all of this subpart's requirements if we approve your alternate approach. For example, in certain circumstances you may be able to give us equal assurance that your products meet the requirements of this part by using less rigorous measurement methods if you offset that by increasing the number of test engines.
(e) If you certify an engine family with carryover emission data, as described in § 1045.235(d), and these equivalent engine families consistently pass the production-line testing requirements over the preceding two-year period, you may ask for a reduced testing rate for further production-line testing for that family. The minimum testing rate is one engine per engine family. If we reduce your testing rate, we may limit our approval to any number of
model years. In determining whether to approve your request, we may consider the number of engines that have failed the emission tests.
(f) We may ask you to make a reasonable number of production-line engines available for a reasonable time so we can test or inspect them for compliance with the requirements of this part.
§ 1045.305
How must I prepare and test my production-line engines?
This section describes how to prepare and test production-line engines. You must assemble the test engine in a way that represents the assembly procedures for other engines in the engine family. You must ask us to approve any deviations from your normal assembly procedures for other production engines in the engine family.
(a)
Test procedures.
Test your production-line engines using the applicable testing procedures in subpart F of this part to show you meet the duty-cycle emission standards in subpart B of this part. The not-to-exceed standards apply for this testing, but you need not do additional testing to show that production-line engines meet the not-to-exceed standards.
(b)
Modifying a test engine.
Once an engine is selected for testing (see § 1045.310), you may adjust, repair, prepare, or modify it or check its emissions only if one of the following is true:
(1) You document the need for doing so in your procedures for assembling and inspecting all your production engines and make the action routine for all the engines in the engine family.
(2) This subpart otherwise specifically allows your action.
(3) We approve your action in advance.
(c)
Engine malfunction.
If an engine malfunction prevents further emission testing, ask us to approve your decision to either repair the engine or delete it from the test sequence.
(d)
Setting adjustable parameters.
Before any test, we may require you to adjust any adjustable parameter to any setting within its physically adjustable range.
(1) We may require you to adjust idle speed outside the physically adjustable range as needed, but only until the engine has stabilized emission levels (see paragraph (e) of this section). We may ask you for information needed to establish an alternate minimum idle speed.
(2) We may specify adjustments within the physically adjustable range by considering their effect on emission levels. We may also consider how likely it is that someone will make such an adjustment with in-use engines.
(e)
Stabilizing emission levels.
You may operate the engine to stabilize the emission levels before you test production-line engines. Using good engineering judgment, operate your engines in a way that represents the way production engines will be used. You may operate each engine for no more than the greater of two periods:
(1) 12 hours.
(2) The number of hours you operated your emission-data engine for certifying the engine family (see 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, or the applicable regulations governing how you should prepare your test engine).
(f)
Damage during shipment.
If shipping an engine to a remote facility for production-line testing makes necessary an adjustment or repair, you must wait until after the initial emission test to do this work. We may waive this requirement if the test would be impossible or unsafe or if it would permanently damage the engine. Report to us in your written report under § 1045.345 all adjustments or repairs you make on test engines before each test.
(g)
Retesting after invalid tests.
You may retest an engine if you determine an emission test is invalid under subpart F of this part. Explain in your written report reasons for invalidating any test and the emission results from all tests. If we determine that you improperly invalidated a test, we may require you to ask for our approval for future testing before substituting results of the new tests for invalid ones.
§ 1045.310
How must I select engines for production-line testing?
(a) Test engines from each engine family as described in this section based on test periods, as follows:
(1) For engine families with projected U.S.-directed production volume of at least 1,600, the test periods are defined as follows:
(i) If your annual production period is 120 days or less, the whole model year constitutes a single test period.
(ii) If your annual production period is 121 to 210 days, divide the annual production period evenly into two test periods.
(iii) If your annual production period is 211 to 300 days, divide the annual production period evenly into three test periods.
(iv) If your annual production period is 301 days or longer, divide the annual production period evenly into four test periods. For example, if your annual production period is 392 days (56 weeks), divide the annual production period into four test periods of 98 days (14 weeks).
(2) For engine families with projected U.S.-directed production volume below 1,600, the whole model year constitutes a single test period.
(b) Early in each test period, randomly select and test an engine from the end of the assembly line for each engine family.
(1) In the first test period for newly certified engines, randomly select and test one more engine. Then, calculate the required sample size for the model year as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) In later test periods of the same model year, combine the new test result with all previous testing in the model year. Then, calculate the required sample size for the model year as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) In the first test period for engine families relying on previously submitted test data, combine the new test result with the last test result from the previous model year. Then, calculate the required sample size for the model year as described in paragraph (c) of this section. Use the last test result from the previous model year only for this first calculation. For all subsequent calculations, use only results from the current model year.
(c) Calculate the required sample size for each engine family. Separately calculate this figure for HC + NO
X
and CO. The required sample size is the greater of these calculated values. Use the following equation:
Er08oc08.089
Where:
N = Required sample size for the model year.
t
95
= 95% confidence coefficient, which depends on the number of tests completed, n, as specified in the table in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. It defines 95% confidence intervals for a one-tail distribution.
σ = Test sample standard deviation (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section).
x = Mean of emission test results of the sample.
STD = Emission standard (or family emission limit, if applicable).
(1) Determine the 95% confidence coefficient, t
95
, from the following table:
n
t
95
n
t
95
n
t
95
2
6.31
12
1.80
22
1.72
3
2.92
13
1.78
23
1.72
4
2.35
14
1.77
24
1.71
5
2.13
15
1.76
25
1.71
6
2.02
16
1.75
26
1.71
7
1.94
17
1.75
27
1.71
8
1.90
18
1.74
28
1.70
9
1.86
19
1.73
29
1.70
10
1.83
20
1.73
30 +
1.70
11
1.81
21
1.72
(2) Calculate the standard deviation, σ, for the test sample using the following formula:
ER08oc08.090
Where:
X
i
= Emission test result for an individual engine.
n = The number of tests completed in an engine family.
(d) Use final deteriorated test results to calculate the variables in the equations in paragraph (c) of this section (see § 1045.315(a)(2)).
(e) After each new test, recalculate the required sample size using the updated mean values, standard deviations, and the appropriate 95-percent confidence coefficient.
(f) Distribute the remaining engine tests evenly throughout the rest of the
year. You may need to adjust your schedule for selecting engines if the required sample size changes. If your scheduled quarterly testing for the remainder of the model year is sufficient to meet the calculated sample size, you may wait until the next quarter to do additional testing. Continue to randomly select engines from each engine family.
(g) Continue testing until one of the following things happens:
(1) After completing the minimum number of tests required in paragraph (b) of this section, the number of tests completed in an engine family, n, is greater than the required sample size, N, and the sample mean, x, is less than or equal to the emission standard. For example, if N = 5.1 after the fifth test, the sample-size calculation does not allow you to stop testing.
(2) The engine family does not comply according to § 1045.315.
(3) You test 30 engines from the engine family.
(4) You test one percent of your projected annual U.S.-directed production volume for the engine family, rounded to the nearest whole number. Do not count an engine under this paragraph (g)(4) if it fails to meet an applicable emission standard.
(5) You choose to declare that the engine family does not comply with the requirements of this subpart.
(h) If the sample-size calculation allows you to stop testing for one pollutant but not another, you must continue measuring emission levels of all pollutants for any additional tests required under this section. However, you need not continue making the calculations specified in this subpart for the pollutant for which testing is not required. This paragraph (h) does not affect the number of tests required under this section, the required calculations in § 1045.315, or the remedial steps required under § 1045.320.
(i) You may elect to test more randomly chosen engines than we require under this section. Include these engines in the sample-size calculations.
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34514, June 29, 2021]
§ 1045.315
How do I know when my engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
This section describes the pass-fail criteria for the production-line testing requirements. We apply these criteria on an engine-family basis. See § 1045.320 for the requirements that apply to individual engines that fail a production-line test.
(a) Calculate your test results as follows:
(1)
Initial and final test results.
Calculate and round the test results for each engine. If you do several tests on an engine, calculate the initial results for each test, then add all the test results together and divide by the number of tests. Round this final calculated value for the final test results on that engine.
(2)
Final deteriorated test results.
Apply the deterioration factor for the engine family to the final test results (see § 1045.240(c)).
(3)
Round deteriorated test results.
Round the results to the number of decimal places in the emission standard expressed to one more decimal place.
(b) Construct the following CumSum Equation for each engine family for HC + NO
X
and CO emissions:
C
i
= Max [0 or C
i−1
+ X
i
− (STD + 0.25 × σ)]
Where:
C
i
= The current CumSum statistic.
C
i−1
= The previous CumSum statistic. For the first test, the CumSum statistic is 0 (i.e., C
1
= 0).
X
i
= The current emission test result for an individual engine.
STD = Emission standard (or family emission limit, if applicable).
(c) Use final deteriorated test results to calculate the variables in the equation in paragraph (b) of this section (see § 1045.315(a)).
(d) After each new test, recalculate the CumSum statistic.
(e) If you test more than the required number of engines, include the results from these additional tests in the CumSum Equation.
(f) After each test, compare the current CumSum statistic, Ci, to the recalculated Action Limit, H, defined as H = 5.0 × σ.
(g) If the CumSum statistic exceeds the Action Limit in two consecutive tests, the engine family fails the production-line testing requirements of this subpart. Tell us within ten working days if this happens. You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the entire engine family as described in § 1045.225(f).
(h) If you amend the application for certification for an engine family under § 1045.225, do not change any previous calculations of sample size or CumSum statistics for the model year.
§ 1045.320
What happens if one of my production-line engines fails to meet emission standards?
(a) If you have a production-line engine with final deteriorated test results exceeding one or more emission standards (see § 1045.315(a)), the certificate of conformity is automatically suspended for that failing engine. You must take the following actions before your certificate of conformity can cover that engine:
(1) Correct the problem and retest the engine to show it complies with all emission standards.
(2) Include the test results and describe the remedy for each engine in the written report required under § 1045.345.
(b) You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the entire engine family at this point (see § 1045.225).
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 73789, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1045.325
What happens if an engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
(a) We may suspend your certificate of conformity for an engine family if it fails under § 1045.315. The suspension may apply to all facilities producing engines from an engine family even if you find noncompliant engines only at one facility.
(b) We will tell you in writing if we suspend your certificate in whole or in part. We will not suspend a certificate until at least 15 days after the engine family fails. The suspension is effective when you receive our notice.
(c) Up to 15 days after we suspend the certificate for an engine family, you may ask for a hearing (see § 1045.820). If we agree before a hearing occurs that we used erroneous information in deciding to suspend the certificate, we will reinstate the certificate.
(d) Section 1045.335 specifies steps you must take to remedy the cause of the engine family's production-line failure. All the engines you have produced since the end of the last test period are presumed noncompliant and should be addressed in your proposed remedy. We may require you to apply the remedy to engines produced earlier if we determine that the cause of the failure is likely to have affected the earlier engines.
(e) You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the engine family before or after we suspend your certificate as described in § 1045.225(f). We will approve your request if the failure is not caused by a defect and it is clear that you used good engineering judgment in establishing the original FEL.
§ 1045.330
May I sell engines from an engine family with a suspended certificate of conformity?
You may sell engines that you produce after we suspend the engine family's certificate of conformity under § 1045.315 only if one of the following occurs:
(a) You test each engine you produce and show it complies with emission standards that apply.
(b) We conditionally reinstate the certificate for the engine family. We may do so if you agree to recall all the affected engines and remedy any noncompliance at no expense to the owner if later testing shows that the engine family still does not comply.
§ 1045.335
How do I ask EPA to reinstate my suspended certificate?
(a) Send us a written report asking us to reinstate your suspended certificate. In your report, identify the reason for noncompliance, propose a remedy for the engine family, and commit to a date for carrying it out. In your proposed remedy include any quality control measures you propose to keep the problem from happening again.
(b) Give us data from production-line testing that shows the remedied engine family complies with all the emission standards that apply.
§ 1045.340
When may EPA revoke my certificate under this subpart and how may I sell these engines again?
(a) We may revoke your certificate for an engine family in the following cases:
(1) You do not meet the reporting requirements.
(2) Your engine family fails to comply with the requirements of this subpart and your proposed remedy to address a suspended certificate under § 1045.335 is inadequate to solve the problem or requires you to change the engine's design or emission control system.
(b) To sell engines from an engine family with a revoked certificate of conformity, you must modify the engine family and then show it complies with the requirements of this part.
(1) If we determine your proposed design change may not control emissions for the engine's full useful life, we will tell you within five working days after receiving your report. In this case we will decide whether production-line testing will be enough for us to evaluate the change or whether you need to do more testing.
(2) Unless we require more testing, you may show compliance by testing production-line engines as described in this subpart.
(3) We will issue a new or updated certificate of conformity when you have met these requirements.
§ 1045.345
What production-line testing records must I send to EPA?
(a) Within 45 days of the end of each test period, send us a report with the following information:
(1) Describe any facility used to test production-line engines and state its location.
(2) State the total U.S.-directed production volume and number of tests for each engine family.
(3) Describe how you randomly selected engines.
(4) Describe each test engine, including the engine family's identification and the engine's model year, build date, model number, identification number, and number of hours of operation before testing.
(5) Identify how you accumulated hours of operation on the engines and describe the procedure and schedule you used.
(6) Provide the test number; the date, time and duration of testing; test procedure; all initial test results; final test results; and final deteriorated test results for all tests. Provide the emission results for all measured pollutants. Include information for both valid and invalid tests and the reason for any invalidation.
(7) Describe completely and justify any nonroutine adjustment, modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, or test for the test engine if you did not report it separately under this subpart. Include the results of any emission measurements, regardless of the procedure or type of engine.
(8) Provide the CumSum analysis required in § 1045.315 and the sample-size calculation required in § 1045.310 for each engine family.
(9) Report on each failed engine as described in § 1045.320.
(10) State the date the test period ended for each engine family.
(b) We may ask you to add information to your written report so we can determine whether your new engines conform with the requirements of this subpart. We may also ask you to send less information.
(c) An authorized representative of your company must sign the following statement:
We submit this report under sections 208 and 213 of the Clean Air Act. Our production-line testing conformed completely with the requirements of 40 CFR part 1045. We have not changed production processes or quality-control procedures for test engines in a way that might affect emission controls. All the information in this report is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I know of the penalties for violating the Clean Air Act and the regulations. (Authorized Company Representative).
(d) Send electronic reports of production-line testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.
(e) We will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them. Section 1045.815 describes how we treat information you consider confidential.
§ 1045.350
What records must I keep?
(a) Organize and maintain your records as described in this section. We may review your records at any time.
(b) Keep paper or electronic records of your production-line testing for eight years after you complete all the testing required for an engine family in a model year.
(c) Keep a copy of the written reports described in § 1045.345.
(d) Keep the following additional records:
(1) A description of all test equipment for each test cell that you can use to test production-line engines.
(2) The names of supervisors involved in each test.
(3) The name of anyone who authorizes adjusting, repairing, preparing, or modifying a test engine and the names of all supervisors who oversee this work.
(4) If you shipped the engine for testing, the date you shipped it, the associated storage or port facility, and the date the engine arrived at the testing facility.
(5) Any records related to your production-line tests that are not in the written report.
(6) A brief description of any significant events during testing not otherwise described in the written report or in this section.
(7) Any information specified in § 1045.345 that you do not include in your written reports.
(e) If we ask, you must give us a more detailed description of projected or actual production figures for an engine family. We may ask you to divide your production figures by maximum engine power, displacement, fuel type, or assembly plant (if you produce engines at more than one plant).
(f) Keep records of the engine identification number for each engine you produce under each certificate of conformity. You may identify these numbers as a range. Give us these records within 30 days if we ask for them.
(g) We may ask you to keep or send other information necessary to implement this subpart.

# Subpart E—In-Use Testing
§ 1045.401
What testing requirements apply to my engines that have gone into service?
(a) We may perform in-use testing of any engines subject to the standards of this part. If you produce outboard or personal watercraft engines that are subject to the requirements of this part, you must test them as described in this subpart. The testing requirements described in this subpart do not apply to sterndrive/inboard engines. This generally involves testing engines in the field or removing them for measurement in a laboratory.
(b) We may approve an alternate plan for showing that in-use engines comply with the requirements of this part if one of the following is true:
(1) You produce 200 or fewer engines per year in the selected engine family.
(2) You identify a unique aspect of your engine applications that keeps you from doing the required in-use testing.
(c) We may void your certificate of conformity for an engine family if you do not meet your obligations under this part.
(d) Independent of your responsibility to test in-use engines, we may choose at any time to do our own testing of your in-use engines.
(e) If in-use testing shows that engines fail to meet emission standards or other requirements of this part, we may pursue a recall or other remedy as allowed by the Clean Air Act (see § 1045.415).
§ 1045.405
How does this program work?
(a) You must test in-use engines for exhaust emissions from the families we select. We may select up to 25 percent of your engine families in any model year—or one engine family if you have three or fewer families. When we select an engine family for testing, we may specify that you preferentially test engines based on the type of vessel. In addition, we may identify specific modes of operation or sampling times. You
may choose to test additional engine families that we do not select.
(b) The provisions of this paragraph (b) describe how test families are selected, depending on when we receive the application for certification.
(1) If we receive the application by December 31 of a given calendar year for the following model year (for example, by December 31, 2009 for model year 2010), we would expect to select engine families for testing by February 28 of the model year. If we have not completed the selection of engine families by February 28, you may select your own engine families for in-use testing. In this case, you must make your selections and notify us which engine families you have selected by March 31. You should consider the following factors in selecting engine families, in priority order:
(i) Select an engine family that has not recently been tested in an in-use testing regimen (and passed) under the provisions of this subpart. This should generally involve engine families that have not been selected in the previous two model years. If design changes have required new testing for certification, we would consider that this engine family has not been selected for in-use testing.
(ii) Select an engine family if we have approved an alternative approach to establishing a deterioration factor under § 1045.245(b)(8).
(iii) Select the engine family with the highest projected U.S.-directed production volume.
(2) If we receive an application for a given model year after December 31 of the previous calendar year, you must conduct in-use testing with that engine family without regard to the limitations specified in paragraph (a) of this section, unless we waive this requirement. We will generally waive testing under this paragraph (b)(2) only for small-volume engine manufacturers or in the case where similar testing was recently completed for a related engine family.
(c) Send us an in-use testing plan for engine families selected for testing as described in this paragraph (c). Complete the testing within 36 months after we direct you to test a particular engine family. Send us a complete in-use testing plan according to the following deadlines:
(1) Within six months after we direct you to test a particular engine family.
(2) By February 28 of the following year if you select engine families for testing under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) Within six months after we approve certification for engine families subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4) If we request additional information or require you to modify your plan to meet the requirements of this subpart, you must provide the information or the modified plan within 30 days of our request.
(d) You may need to test engines from more than one model year at a given time.
(e) In appropriate extreme and unusual circumstances that are clearly outside your control and could not have been avoided by the exercise of prudence, diligence, and due care, we may allow more time to complete testing or we may waive the in-use testing requirement for an engine family. For example, if your test fleet is destroyed by severe weather during service accumulation and we agree that completion of testing is not possible, we would generally waive testing requirements for that engine family.
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23020, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1045.410
How must I select, prepare, and test my in-use engines?
(a) You may make arrangements to select representative test engines from your own fleet or from other independent sources.
(b) For the selected engine families, select engines that you or your customers have—
(1) Operated for at least 50 percent of the engine family's useful life (see § 1045.103(e));
(2) Not maintained or used in an abnormal way; and
(3) Documented in terms of total hours of operation, maintenance, operating conditions, and storage.
(c) Use the following methods to determine the number of engines you must test in each engine family:
(1) Test at least two engines if you produce 2,000 or fewer engines in the model year from all engine families, or if you produce 500 or fewer engines from the selected engine family. Otherwise, test at least four engines.
(2) If you successfully complete an in-use test program on an engine family and later certify an equivalent engine family with carryover emission data, as described in § 1045.235(d)(1), then test at least one engine instead of the testing rates in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) If you test the minimum required number of engines and all comply fully with emission standards, you may stop testing.
(4) For each engine that fails any applicable emission standard, test two more. Regardless of measured emission levels, you do not have to test more than ten engines in an engine family. You may do more tests than we require.
(5) You may concede that the engine family does not comply before testing a total of ten engines.
(6) In appropriate extreme and unusual circumstances that could not have been avoided by the exercise of prudence, diligence, and due care, we may waive the in-use testing requirement for an engine family.
(d) You may do minimal maintenance to set components of a test engine to specifications for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter (see § 1045.205(r)). Limit maintenance to what is in the owner's instructions for engines with that amount of service and age. Document all maintenance and adjustments.
(e) You may do repeat measurements with a test engine; however, you must conduct the same number of tests on each engine.
(f) For a test program on an engine family, choose one of the following methods to test your engines:
(1) Remove the selected engines for testing in a laboratory. Use the applicable procedures in subpart F of this part to show compliance with the duty-cycle standards in § 1045.103(a) or § 1045.105(a). We may direct you to measure emissions on the dynamometer using the test procedures in § 1045.515 to show compliance with the not-to-exceed standards in § 1045.107.
(2) Test the selected engines while they remain installed in the vessel. Use the procedures in § 1045.515. Measure emissions during normal operation of the vessel to show compliance with the not-to-exceed standards in § 1045.107. We may direct you to include specific areas of normal operation.
(g) You may ask us to waive parts of the prescribed test procedures if they are not necessary to determine in-use compliance.
(h) Calculate the average emission levels for an engine family from the results for the set of tested engines. Round them to the number of decimal places in the emission standards expressed to one more decimal place.
§ 1045.415
What happens if in-use engines do not meet requirements?
(a) Determine the reason each in-use engine exceeds the emission standards.
(b) If the average emission levels calculated in § 1045.410(h) exceed any of the emission standards that apply, notify us within fifteen days of completing testing on this family. Otherwise follow the reporting instructions in § 1045.420.
(c) We will consider failure rates, average emission levels, and any defects—among other things—to decide on taking remedial action under this subpart (see 40 CFR 1068.505). We may consider the results from any voluntary additional testing you perform. We may also consider information related to testing from other engine families showing that you designed them to exceed the minimum requirements for controlling emissions. We may order a recall before or after you complete testing of an engine family if we determine a substantial number of engines do not conform to section 213 of the Clean Air Act or to this part. The scope of the recall may include other engine families in the same or different model years if the cause of the problem identified in paragraph (a) of this section applies more broadly than the tested engine family, as allowed by the Clean Air Act.
(d) If in-use testing reveals a design or manufacturing defect that prevents engines from meeting the requirements
of this part, you must correct the defect as soon as possible for any future production for engines in every family affected by the defect. See 40 CFR 1068.501 for additional requirements related to defect reporting.
(e) You may voluntarily recall an engine family for emission failures, as described in 40 CFR 1068.535, unless we have ordered a recall for that family under 40 CFR 1068.505.
(f) You have the right to a hearing before we order you to recall your engines or implement an alternative remedy (see § 1045.820).
§ 1045.420
What in-use testing information must I report to EPA?
(a) In a report to us within three months after you finish testing an engine family, do all the following:
(1) Identify the engine family, model, serial number, and date of manufacture.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Describe the specific reasons for disqualifying any engines for not being properly maintained or used.
(4) For each engine selected for testing, include the following information:
(i) Estimate the hours each engine was used before testing.
(ii) Describe all maintenance, adjustments, modifications, and repairs to each test engine.
(5) State the date and time of each test attempt.
(6) Include the results of all emission testing, including incomplete or invalidated tests, if any.
(b) Send electronic reports of in-use testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.
(c) We will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them. See § 1045.815 for information on how we treat information you consider confidential.
(d) We may ask for more information.
§ 1045.425
What records must I keep?
(a) Organize and maintain your records as described in this section. We may review your records at any time, so it is important to keep required information readily available.
(b) Keep paper records of your in-use testing for one full year after you complete all the testing required for an engine family in a model year. You may use any additional storage formats or media if you like.
(c) Keep a copy of the written reports described in § 1045.420.
(d) Keep any additional records related to the procurement process.

# Subpart F—Test Procedures
§ 1045.501
How do I run a valid emission test?
(a)
Applicability.
This subpart is addressed to you as a manufacturer but it applies equally to anyone who does testing for you, and to us when we perform testing to determine if your engines meet emission standards.
(b)
General requirements.
Use the equipment and procedures for spark-ignition engines in 40 CFR part 1065 to determine whether engines meet the duty-cycle emission standards in §§ 1045.103 and 1045.105. Measure the emissions of all exhaust constituents subject to emissions standards as specified in 40 CFR part 1065. Measure CO
2
, N
2
O, and CH
4
as described in § 1045.235. Use the applicable duty cycles specified in § 1045.505. Section 1045.515 describes the supplemental procedures for evaluating whether engines meet the not-to-exceed emission standards in § 1045.107.
(c)
Fuels.
Use the fuels and lubricants specified in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, for all the testing we require in this part, except as specified in § 1045.515.
(1) Use gasoline meeting the specifications described in 40 CFR 1065.710(c) for general testing. For service accumulation, use the test fuel or any commercially available fuel that is representative of the fuel that in-use engines will use.
(2) You may alternatively use ethanol-blended fuel meeting the specifications described in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) for general testing without our advance approval. If you use the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family, you may also use it for production-line testing or any other testing you perform for that engine family under this part. If you use the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family, we may use the
ethanol-blended fuel or the specified neat gasoline test fuel with that engine family.
(d)
Laboratory conditions.
Ambient conditions for duty-cycle testing must be within ranges specified in 40 CFR 1065.520, subject to the provisions of § 1045.115(d). Emissions may not be corrected for the effects of test temperature or pressure. Humidity levels must represent actual in-use humidity levels; however, you may correct emissions for humidity as specified in 40 CFR 1065.670.
(e)
Engine stabilization.
Instead of the provisions of 40 CFR 1065.405, you may consider emission levels stable without measurement after 12 hours of engine operation.
(f)
Maximum test speed.
Instead of the provisions of 40 CFR 1065.510(f), you may declare a value of maximum test speed for laboratory testing that is within 500 rpm of the corresponding measured value for maximum test speed.
(g)
Special and alternate procedures.
If you are unable to run the duty cycle specified in this part for your engine (such as with constant-speed engines), use an alternate test cycle that will result in a cycle-weighted emission measurement equivalent to the expected average in-use emissions. This cycle must be approved under 40 CFR 1065.10. You may use other special or alternate procedures to the extent we allow them under 40 CFR 1065.10.
(h)
Laboratory testing with portable analyzers.
You may use field-grade equipment for any laboratory testing with high-performance engines, as specified in 40 CFR 1065.901(b), without requesting approval.
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 56510, Oct. 30, 2009; 86 FR 34514, June 29, 2021]
§ 1045.505
How do I test engines using discrete-mode or ramped-modal duty cycles?
(a) This section describes how to test engines under steady-state conditions. We allow you to perform tests with either discrete-mode or ramped-modal sampling. You must use the modal testing method for certification and all other testing you perform for an engine family. If we test your engines to confirm that they meet emission standards, we will use the modal testing method you select for your own testing. If you submit certification test data collected with both discrete-mode and ramped-modal testing (either in your original application or in an amendment to your application), either method may be used for subsequent testing. We may also perform other testing as allowed by the Clean Air Act. Conduct duty-cycle testing as follows:
(1) For discrete-mode testing, sample emissions separately for each mode, then calculate an average emission level for the whole cycle using the weighting factors specified for each mode. In each mode, operate the engine for at least 5 minutes, then sample emissions for at least 1 minute. Calculate cycle statistics and compare with the established criteria as specified in 40 CFR 1065.514 to confirm that the test is valid.
(2) For ramped-modal testing, start sampling at the beginning of the first mode and continue sampling until the end of the last mode. Calculate emissions and cycle statistics the same as for transient testing as specified in 40 CFR part 1065.
(b) Measure emissions by testing the engine on a dynamometer to determine whether it meets the emission standards in §§ 1045.103(a) and 1045.105(a). Use the 5-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in Appendix I of this part.
(c) During idle mode, operate the engine at its warm idle speed as described in 40 CFR 1065.510; this may involve a nonzero torque setting if that represents in-use operation.
(d) For full-load operating modes, operate the engine at wide-open throttle.
(e) See 40 CFR part 1065 for detailed specifications of tolerances and calculations.
§ 1045.515
What are the test procedures related to not-to-exceed standards?
(a) This section describes the procedures to determine whether your engines meet the not-to-exceed emission standards in § 1045.107. These procedures may include any normal engine operation and ambient conditions that the engines may experience in use.
Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section define the limits of what we will consider normal engine operation and ambient conditions. Use the test procedures we specify in § 1045.501, except for the provisions we specify in this section. Measure emissions with one of the following procedures:
(1) Remove the selected engines for testing in a laboratory. You may use an engine dynamometer to simulate normal operation, as described in this section.
(2) Test the selected engines while they remain installed on a vessel. In 40 CFR part 1065, subpart J, we describe the equipment and sampling methods for testing engines in the field. Use fuel meeting the specifications of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, or a fuel typical of what you would expect the engine to use in service.
(b) Engine testing may occur under a range of ambient conditions as follows:
(1) Engine testing may occur under the following ranges of ambient conditions without correcting measured emission levels:
(i) Barometric pressure must be between 94.0 and 103.325 kPa.
(ii) Ambient air temperature must be between 13 and 35 °C.
(iii) Ambient water temperature must be between 5 and 27 °C.
(iv) Any ambient humidity level.
(2) Engine testing may occur outside the conditions described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, as long as measured values are corrected to be equivalent to the nearest end of the specified range using good engineering practice.
(c) An engine's emissions may not exceed the NTE standards in § 1045.107 under the following ranges of engine operation:
(1) The sampling period may not begin until the engine has reached stable operating temperatures. For example, this would exclude engine operation after starting until the thermostat starts modulating coolant temperature. The sampling period may also not include engine starting. For testing under paragraphs (c)(4) and (6) of this section, the NTE standards apply for any continuous sampling period of at least 30 seconds.
(2) Engine operation during the emission sampling period may include any nominally steady-state combination of speeds and loads within the applicable zone defined by segments on an engine's power vs. speed map specified in paragraphs (c)(3) through (6) of this section, except as follows:
(i) You may request that we specify a narrower zone, as long as the modified zone includes all points where your engines are expected to normally operate in use, but not including any points at which engine speed is below 40 percent of maximum test speed or engine load is below 25.3 percent of maximum torque at maximum test speed. However, we may perform valid tests at any speeds and loads within the zones specified in paragraphs (c)(3) through (6) of this section that we observe with in-use engines. The engine must comply with emission standards at all such speeds and loads unless we determine that one of following criteria are true:
(A) Such speeds and loads occur very infrequently. This determination may consider whether the operation would be expected to result in damage to the engine or vessel or be inherently unsafe.
(B) Such speeds and loads result from the engine being installed in a manner that is not consistent with your emission-related installation instructions.
(ii) You must notify us if you design your engines for normal in-use operation outside the specified zone. If we learn that normal in-use operation for your engines includes other speeds and loads, we may specify a broader zone, as long as the modified zone is limited to normal in-use operation for speeds greater than 40 percent of maximum test speed and loads greater than 25.3 percent of maximum torque at maximum test speed.
(3) The NTE zone for testing engines under this section is defined by the following segments on an engine's torque vs. speed map, as illustrated in Figures 1 through 3 of this section:
(i) Speed at or above 40 percent of maximum test speed.
(ii) Speeds and torques below the line defined by the following equation:
Normalized torque = 1.5 × normalized speed−0.16
(iii) Speeds and torques at or below the engine's mapped torque values.
(iv) Speeds at or below 100 percent of maximum test speed, except as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(v) Speeds and torques above the line defined by the following equation:
Normalized torque = (normalized speed)
1.5
−0.08
(vi) Torques at or above 25.3 percent of maximum torque at maximum test speed, except as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(4) For engines equipped with a catalyst, the NTE zone described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section is divided into the following subzones for determining the applicable NTE standards, as illustrated in Figure 1 of this section:
(i) Subzone 1 includes all operation in the NTE zone characterized by speeds and torques above the line represented by the following equation:
(percent torque) = 1.2−0.5 × (percent speed)
(ii) Subzone 2 includes all operation in the NTE zone not included in Subzone 1.
ER08OC08.075
(5) For two-stroke engines not equipped with a catalyst, the NTE zone described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section is divided into subzones for testing to determine compliance with the applicable NTE standards. Measure emissions to get an NTE result by collecting emissions at five points as described in this paragraph (c)(5). Calculate a weighted test result for these emission measurements using the weighting factors from Appendix II of this part for the corresponding modal result (similar to discrete-mode testing for certification). Test engines over the following modes corresponding to the certification duty cycle:
(i) Mode 1: Operate the engine at wide open throttle. For laboratory testing, this may involve any torque value between the boundaries specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(ii) Mode 2: Operate the engine at a nominal speed that is 80 percent of maximum test speed at any torque value between the boundaries specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(iii) Mode 3: Operate the engine at a nominal speed that is 60 percent of maximum test speed at any torque value between the boundaries specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(iv) Mode 4: Operate the engine at a nominal speed that is 40 percent of maximum test speed at any torque value between the boundaries specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) and (v) of this section.
(v) Mode 5: Operate the engine at idle.
ER08OC08.076
(6) For any engines not covered by paragraphs (c)(4) and (5) of this section, the NTE zone described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section is divided into the following subzones for determining the applicable NTE standards, as illustrated in Figure 2 of this section:
(i) Subzone 1 includes all operation in the NTE zone at speeds above 50 percent of maximum test speed.
(ii) Subzone 2 includes all operation in the NTE zone not included in Subzone 1.
ER08OC08.077
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23020, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1045.520
What testing must I perform to establish deterioration factors?
Sections 1045.240 and 1045.245 describe the required methods for testing to establish deterioration factors for an engine family.

# Subpart G—Special Compliance Provisions
§ 1045.601
What compliance provisions apply to these engines?
Engine and vessel manufacturers, as well as owners, operators, and rebuilders of engines subject to the requirements of this part, and all other persons, must observe the provisions of this part, the requirements and prohibitions in 40 CFR part 1068, and the provisions of the Clean Air Act.
§ 1045.605
What provisions apply to engines already certified under the motor vehicle or Large SI programs?
(a)
General provisions.
If you are an engine manufacturer, this section allows you to introduce new propulsion marine engines into U.S. commerce if they are already certified to the requirements that apply to spark-ignition engines under 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 or part 1048 for the appropriate model year. If you comply with all the provisions of this section, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1045 for its model year, without a separate application for certification under the requirements of this part 1045.
(b)
Vessel-manufacturer provisions.
If you are not an engine manufacturer, you may produce vessels using motor vehicle engines or nonroad spark-ignition engines under this section as long
as you meet all the requirements and conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. If you modify the engine in any of the ways described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, we will consider you a manufacturer of a new propulsion marine engine. Such engine modifications prevent you from using the provisions of this section.
(c)
Liability.
Engines for which you meet the requirements of this section are exempt from all the requirements and prohibitions of this part, except for those specified in this section. Engines exempted under this section must meet all the applicable requirements from 40 CFR parts 85 and 86, or part 1048. This applies to engine manufacturers, vessel manufacturers who use these engines, and all other persons as if these engines were used in applications other than for installation as propulsion marine engines. The prohibited acts of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) apply to these new engines and vessels; however, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1045 for its model year. If we make a determination that these engines do not conform to the regulations during their useful life, we may require you to recall them under 40 CFR part 86 or 1068.
(d)
Specific requirements.
If you are an engine or vessel manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new propulsion marine engine, the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:
(1) Your engine must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048.
(2) You must not make any changes to the certified engine that could reasonably be expected to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions. For example, if you make any of the following changes to one of these engines, you do not qualify for this exemption:
(i) Change any fuel-system or evaporative-system parameters from the certified configuration (this does not apply to refueling controls).
(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the engine manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.
(iii) Modify or design the marine engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original engine manufacturer's specified ranges.
(3) You must show that fewer than 10 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in marine applications. This includes engines used in any application without regard to which company manufactures the vessel or equipment. Show this as follows:
(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.
(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm this based on its sales information.
(4) You must ensure that the engine has the label we require under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048.
(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the engine in a position where it will remain clearly visible after installation in the vessel. In the supplemental label, do the following:
(i) Include the heading: “MARINE ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.
(iii) State: “THIS ENGINE WAS ADAPTED FOR MARINE USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS.”
(iv) If the modified engine is certified as a motor vehicle engine, also state: “THE EMISSION CONTROL SYSTEM DEPENDS ON THE USE OF FUEL MEETING SPECIFICATIONS THAT APPLY FOR MOTOR VEHICLE APPLICATIONS. OPERATING THE ENGINE ON OTHER FUELS MAY BE A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW.”
(v) State the date you finished modifying the engine (month and year), if applicable.
(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible after the engine is installed in the vessel or, if
the vessel obscures the engine's emission control information label, the vessel manufacturer must attach duplicate labels, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.
(7) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:
(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.
(ii) List the engine or vessel models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(iii) State: “We produce each listed [engine or vessel] model without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1045.605.”
(e)
Failure to comply.
If your engines do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d) of this section, they will be subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions of this part 1045 and the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 will not be deemed to also be a certificate issued under this part 1045. Introducing these engines into U.S. commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity under this part violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).
(f)
Data submission.
We may require you to send us emission test data on one of the duty cycles specified in subpart F of this part.
(g)
Participation in averaging, banking and trading.
Engines adapted for marine use under this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part 1045. These engines may generate credits under the ABT provisions in 40 CFR part 86. These engines must use emission credits under 40 CFR part 86 if they are certified to an FEL above a standard that applies under 40 CFR part 86.
§ 1045.610
What provisions apply to using engines already certified to Small SI emission standards?
This section applies to marine engines that are identical to land-based engines certified under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054. See § 1045.605 for provisions that apply to marine engines that are certified under other programs.
(a) If an engine meets all the following criteria, it is exempt from the requirements of this part:
(1) The engine must be in an engine family that has a valid certificate of conformity showing that it meets emission standards for nonhandheld engines under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054 for the appropriate model year.
(2) You must show that fewer than 5 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in marine applications. This includes engines used in any application without regard to which company manufactures the vessel or equipment.
Show this as follows:
(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.
(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm this based on its sales information.
(b) The only requirements or prohibitions from this part that apply to an engine that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section are in this section.
(c) Engines exempted under this section are subject to all the requirements affecting engines under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054. The requirements and restrictions of 40 CFR part 90 or 1054 apply to anyone manufacturing these engines, anyone manufacturing equipment that uses these engines, and all other persons in the same manner as if these engines were not used as propulsion marine engines.
(d) You may use the provisions of § 1045.605 in addition to the provisions of this section for engines certified under 40 CFR part 1054. Where § 1045.605 references 40 CFR parts 85, 86, and/or 1048, apply the applicable provisions of 40 CFR part 1054 instead. Include the engines you sell under this section in your demonstration that you meet the sales limit in § 1045.605(d)(3).
§ 1045.620
What are the provisions for exempting engines used solely for competition?
The provisions of this section apply for new engines and vessels built on or after January 1, 2010.
(a) We may grant you an exemption from the standards and requirements of this part for a new engine on the grounds that it is to be used solely for competition. The requirements of this part, other than those in this section, do not apply to engines that we exempt for use solely for competition.
(b) We will exempt engines that we determine will be used solely for competition. The basis of our determination is described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Exemptions granted under this section are good for only one model year and you must request renewal for each subsequent model year. We will not approve your renewal request if we determine the engine will not be used solely for competition.
(c) Engines meeting all the following criteria are considered to be used solely for competition:
(1) Neither the engine nor any vessels containing the engine may be displayed for sale in any public dealership or otherwise offered for sale to the general public. Note that this does not preclude display of these engines as long as they are not available for sale to the general public.
(2) Sale of the vessel in which the engine is installed must be limited to professional racing teams, professional racers, or other qualified racers. For replacement engines, the sale of the engine itself must be limited to professional racing teams, professional racers, other qualified racers, or to the original vessel manufacturer.
(3) The engine and the vessel in which it is installed must have performance characteristics that are substantially superior to noncompetitive models.
(4) The engines are intended for use only as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(d) You may ask us to approve an exemption for engines not meeting the criteria listed in paragraph (c) of this section as long as you have clear and convincing evidence that the engines will be used solely for competition.
(e) Engines are considered to be used solely for competition only if their use is limited to competition events sanctioned by the U.S. Coast Guard or another public organization with authorizing permits for participating competitors. Operation of such engines may include only racing events, trials to qualify for racing events, and practice associated with racing events. Authorized attempts to set speed records are also considered racing events. Engines will not be considered to be used solely for competition if they are ever used for any recreational or other noncompetitive purpose. Use of exempt engines in any recreational events, such as poker runs and lobsterboat races, is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(4).
(f) You must permanently label engines exempted under this section to clearly indicate that they are to be used only for competition. Failure to properly label an engine will void the exemption for that engine.
(g) If we request it, you must provide us any information we need to determine whether the engines are used solely for competition. This would include documentation regarding the number of engines and the ultimate purchaser of each engine as well as any documentation showing a vessel manufacturer's request for an exempted engine. Keep these records for five years.
§ 1045.625
What requirements apply under the Diurnal Transition Program?
The provisions of this section allow vessel manufacturers to produce a certain number of vessels with installed fuel tanks that do not meet the diurnal emission standards specified in § 1045.112(d) and 40 CFR 1060.105. The provisions of this section do not apply for portable marine fuel tanks, personal watercraft, or outboard engines with under-cowl fuel tanks. Vessels you produce under this section are exempt from the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) with respect to diurnal emissions, subject to the provisions of this section.
(a)
General.
If you are a vessel manufacturer, you may introduce into U.S. commerce limited numbers of exempted vessels under this section. You may use the exemptions in this section only if you have primary responsibility for designing and manufacturing vessels and your manufacturing procedures include installing some engines in these vessels. Consider all U.S.-directed vessel sales in showing that you meet the
requirements of this section, including those from any parent or subsidiary companies and those from any other companies you license to produce vessels for you. These provisions are available for vessels you produce during the periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Allowances.
You may choose one of the following options to produce exempted vessels under this section:
(1)
Percent-of-production allowances.
You may produce up to 50 percent of your vessels from July 31, 2011 through July 31, 2012 that are exempt from the diurnal emission standards. Calculate this percentage based on your total U.S.-directed production volume.
(2)
Small-volume allowances.
Small-volume vessel manufacturers may produce up to 1200 vessels from July 31, 2011 through July 31, 2013 that are exempt from the diurnal emission standards.
(c)
Vessel labeling.
You must add a permanent label, written legibly in English, to a readily visible part of each exempted vessel you produce under this section. You may combine this with the label required under 40 CFR 1060.135. This label must include at least the following items:
(1) The label heading “EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(2) Your corporate name and trademark.
(3) The vessel's date of manufacture.
(4) The following statement: “THIS VESSEL IS EXEMPT FROM DIURNAL STANDARDS UNDER 40 CFR 1045.625.”
(d)
Notification and reporting.
You must notify us of your intent to use the provisions of this section and send us an annual report to verify that you are not exceeding the allowances, as follows:
(1) Before you produce vessels that are exempt under this section, send the Designated Compliance Officer a written notice of your intent with the following information:
(i) Identify your company's name and address, and your parent company's name and address, if applicable.
(ii) Identify the name, e-mail address, and phone number of a person to contact for further information.
(iii) Identify the name and address of the company you expect to produce the fuel tanks you will be using for the vessels exempted under this section.
(iv) If you qualify as a small-volume vessel manufacturer, state whether you will comply under paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.
(v) Include your production figures for the period from July 31, 2009 through July 31, 2010, including figures broken down by model.
(2) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a written report by December 31, 2012. If you are a small-volume manufacturer using the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section to produce exempted vessels after July 31, 2012, send us a second report by December 31, 2013. These reports must include the total number of vessels and the number of exempted vessels you sold in the preceding year for each model, based on actual U.S.-directed production information. You may omit the count of compliant vessels if you include in the report a statement that you are not using the percent-of-production allowances in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If you initially comply using the percent-of-production allowances in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you may not use the small-volume allowances in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for later production.
(3) If you send your initial notification under paragraph (d)(1) of this section after the specified deadline, we may approve your use of allowances under this section. In your request, describe why you were unable to meet the deadline. We will not approve your request if the delay could have been avoided with reasonable care and discretion.
(e)
Recordkeeping.
Keep the following records of all exempted vessels you produce under this section:
(1) The model number, serial number, and the date of manufacture for each vessel.
(2) The total number or percentage of exempted vessels as described in paragraph (b) of this section and all documentation supporting your calculation.
(3) The notifications and reports we require under paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
Provisions for fuel tank manufacturers.
As a fuel tank manufacturer, you may produce fuel tanks as needed for
vessel manufacturers under this section without our prior approval. These fuel tanks are exempt from the diurnal emission standards. Note that this diurnal exemption does not affect the requirements related to permeation emissions specified in § 1045.112. You must have written assurance from vessel manufacturers that they need a certain number of exempted fuel tanks under this section. You must keep records of the number of exempted fuel tanks you sell to each vessel manufacturer.
(g)
Enforcement.
Producing more exempted vessels than we allow under this section violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1). Vessel manufacturers and fuel tank manufacturers must keep the records we require under this section until at least December 31, 2017 and give them to us if we ask for them (see 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2)).
§ 1045.630
What is the personal-use exemption.
This section applies to individuals who manufacture recreational vessels for personal use with used engines. If you and your vessel meet all the conditions of this section, the vessel and its engine are considered to be exempt from the standards and requirements of this part that apply to new engines, including standards and requirements related to evaporative emissions. For example, you are not required to use certified fuel system components or otherwise obtain certificates of conformity showing that the vessel meets evaporative emission standards, and you do not need to install a certified engine.
(a) The vessel may not be manufactured from a previously certified vessel, nor may it be manufactured from a partially complete vessel that is equivalent to a certified vessel. The vessel must be manufactured primarily from unassembled components, but may incorporate some preassembled components. For example, fully preassembled steering assemblies may be used. You may also power the vessel with an engine that was previously used in a highway or land-based nonroad application.
(b) The vessel may not be sold within five years after the date of final assembly.
(c) No individual may manufacture more than one vessel in any five-year period under this exemption.
(d) You may not use the vessel in any revenue-generating service or for any other commercial purpose. For example, this exemption does not apply for vessels used in commercial fishing or charter service.
(e) This exemption may not be used to circumvent the requirements of this part or the requirements of the Clean Air Act. For example, this exemption would not cover a case in which a person sells an almost completely assembled vessel to another person, who would then complete the assembly. This would be considered equivalent to the sale of the complete new vessel. This section also does not allow engine manufacturers to produce new engines that are exempt from emission standards and it does not provide an exemption from the prohibition against tampering with certified engines.
§ 1045.635
What special provisions apply for small-volume engine manufacturers?
This section describes how we apply the special provisions in this part for small-volume engine manufacturers.
(a) Special provisions apply for certain small-volume engine manufacturers, as illustrated by the following examples:
(1) Additional lead time and other provisions related to the transition to new emission standards. See § 1045.145.
(2) More flexible arrangements for creating engine families for high-performance engines. See § 1045.230.
(3) Assigned deterioration factors. See § 1045.240.
(4) Waived requirements for production-line testing. See § 1045.301.
(5) Additional special provisions apply for small-volume engine and vessel manufacturers. For example, see § 1045.625 and 40 CFR 1068.250.
(b) If you use any of the provisions of this part that apply specifically to small-volume engine manufacturers and we find that you do not qualify to use these provisions, we may consider you to be in violation of the requirements that apply for companies that are not small-volume engine manufacturers. If your number of employees
grows to the point that you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer, we will work with you to determine a reasonable schedule for complying with additional requirements that apply. For example, if you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer shortly before you certify your engines for the next model year, we might allow you to use assigned deterioration factors for one more model year.
§ 1045.640
What special provisions apply to branded engines?
The following provisions apply if you identify the name and trademark of another company instead of your own on your emission control information label, as provided by § 1045.135(c)(2):
(a) You must have a contractual agreement with the other company that obligates that company to take the following steps:
(1) Meet the emission warranty requirements that apply under § 1045.120. This may involve a separate agreement involving reimbursement of warranty-related expenses.
(2) Report all warranty-related information to the certificate holder.
(b) In your application for certification, identify the company whose trademark you will use.
(c) You remain responsible for meeting all the requirements of this chapter, including warranty and defect-reporting provisions.
§ 1045.645
What special provisions apply for converting an engine to use an alternate fuel?
A certificate of conformity is no longer valid for an engine if the engine is modified such that it is not in a configuration covered by the certificate. This section applies if such modifications are done to convert the engine to run on a different fuel type. Such engines may need to be recertified as specified in this section if the certificate is no longer valid for that engine.
(a) Converting a certified new engine to run on a different fuel type violates 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) if the modified engine is not covered by a certificate of conformity.
(b) Converting a certified engine that is not new to run on a different fuel type violates 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) if the modified engine is not covered by a certificate of conformity. We may specify alternate certification provisions consistent with the requirements of this part. For example, you may certify the modified engine for a partial useful life. For example, if the engine is modified halfway through its original useful life period, you may generally certify the engine based on completing the original useful life period; or if the engine is modified after the original useful life period is past, you may generally certify the engine based on testing that does not involve further durability demonstration.
(c) Engines may be certified using the certification procedures for new engines as specified in this part or using the certification procedures for aftermarket parts as specified in 40 CFR part 85, subpart V. Unless the original engine manufacturer continues to be responsible for the engine as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, you must remove the original engine manufacturer's emission control information label if you recertify the engine.
(d) The original manufacturer is not responsible for operation of modified engines in configurations resulting from modifications performed by others. In cases where the modification allows an engine to be operated in either its original configuration or a modified configuration, the original manufacturer remains responsible for operation of the modified engine in its original configuration.
(e) Entities producing conversion kits may obtain certificates of conformity for the converted engines. Such entities are engine manufacturers for purposes of this part.
§ 1045.650
Do delegated-assembly provisions apply for marine engines?
The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.261 related to delegated final assembly do not apply for marine spark-ignition engines certified under this part 1045. This means that for engines requiring exhaust aftertreatment (such as catalysts), the engine manufacturers must either install the aftertreatment on the engine before introducing it into
U.S. commerce or ship the aftertreatment along with the engine.
§ 1045.655
What special provisions apply for installing and removing altitude kits?
An action for the purpose of installing or modifying altitude kits and performing other changes to compensate for changing altitude is not considered a prohibited act under 40 CFR 1068.101(b) as long as it is done consistent with the manufacturer's instructions.
§ 1045.660
How do I certify outboard or personal watercraft engines for use in jet boats?
(a) This section describes how to certify outboard or personal watercraft engines for use in jet boats. To be certified under this section, the jet boat engines must be identical in all physical respects to the corresponding outboard or personal watercraft engines, but may differ slightly with respect to engine calibrations.
(b) The outboard or personal watercraft engines must meet all the applicable requirements for outboard or personal watercraft engines. Jet boat engines certified under this section must meet all the applicable requirements for sterndrive/inboard engines.
(c) The jet boat engines must be in an engine family separate from the corresponding outboard or personal watercraft engines.
(d) Jet boat engine families may use emission credits from outboard or personal watercraft engine families, as described in § 1045.701(d).
(e) Jet-boat engines certified under the provisions of this section must meet emission standards over the same useful-life period that applies to the corresponding outboard or personal watercraft engine family, as described in § 1045.103(e).

# Subpart H—Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
§ 1045.701
General provisions.
(a) You may average, bank, and trade (ABT) emission credits for purposes of certification as described in this subpart to show compliance with the standards of this part. This applies for engines with respect to exhaust emissions and for vessels with respect to evaporative emissions. Participation in this program is voluntary.
(b) The definitions of subpart I of this part apply to this subpart. The following definitions also apply:
(1)
Actual emission credits
means emission credits you have generated that we have verified by reviewing your final report.
(2)
Averaging set
means a set of engines (or vessels) in which emission credits may be exchanged only with other engines (or vessels) in the same averaging set.
(3)
Broker
means any entity that facilitates a trade of emission credits between a buyer and seller.
(4)
Buyer
means the entity that receives emission credits as a result of a trade.
(5)
Family
means engine family for exhaust credits or emission family for evaporative credits.
(6)
Reserved emission credits
means emission credits you have generated that we have not yet verified by reviewing your final report.
(7)
Seller
means the entity that provides emission credits during a trade.
(8)
Standard
means the emission standard that applies under subpart B of this part for engines or fuel-system components not participating in the ABT program of this subpart.
(9)
Trade
means to exchange emission credits, either as a buyer or seller.
(c) You may not average or exchange banked or traded exhaust credits with evaporative credits, or vice versa. Evaporative credits generated by any vessels under this part may be used by any vessels under this part. Exhaust credits may be exchanged only within an averaging set. Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the following criteria define the applicable exhaust averaging sets:
(1) Sterndrive/inboard engines.
(2) Outboard and personal watercraft engines.
(d) Sterndrive/inboard engines certified under § 1045.660 for jet boats may use HC + NO
X
and CO exhaust credits generated from outboard and personal watercraft engines, as long as the credit-using engine is the same model as an
engine model from an outboard or personal watercraft family. Such emission credits that you generate under this part 1045 may be used for averaging, but not for banking or trading. The FEL caps for such jet boat families are the HC + NO
X
and CO standard for outboard and personal watercraft engines. U.S.-directed sales from jet boat engines using the provisions of this paragraph (d) may not be greater than the U.S.-directed sales of the same engine model for outboard or personal watercraft engines.
(e) You may not generate evaporative credits based on permeation measurements from metal fuel tanks or portable marine fuel tanks.
(f) You may not use emission credits generated under this subpart to offset any emissions that exceed an FEL or standard. This applies for all testing, including certification testing, in-use testing, selective enforcement audits, and other production-line testing. However, if exhaust emissions from an engine exceed an exhaust FEL or standard (for example, during a selective enforcement audit), you may use emission credits to recertify the family with a higher FEL that applies only to future production.
(g) Emission credits may be used for averaging in the model year they are generated or banked for averaging in future model years, except that CO emission credits for outboard and personal watercraft engines may not be banked or traded.
(h) You may increase or decrease an exhaust FEL during the model year by amending your application for certification under § 1045.225.
(i) Engine and vessel manufacturers certifying with respect to evaporative emissions may use emission credits to demonstrate compliance under this subpart. Component manufacturers may establish FELs for their certified products, but they may not generate or use emission credits under this subpart.
(j) In your application for certification, base your showing of compliance on projected production volumes for engines or vessels intended for sale in the United States. As described in § 1045.730, compliance with the requirements of this subpart is determined at the end of the model year based on actual production volumes for engines or vessels intended for sale in the United States. Do not include any of the following engines or vessels to calculate emission credits:
(1) Engines or vessels exempted under subpart G of this part or under 40 CFR part 1068.
(2) Engines or vessels intended for export.
(3) Engines or vessels that are subject to state emission standards for that model year. However, this restriction does not apply if we determine that the state standards and requirements are equivalent to those of this part and that products sold in such a state will not generate credits under the state program. For example, you may not include engines or vessels certified for California if California has more stringent emission standards for these products or if your products generate or use emission credits under the California program.
(4) Engines or vessels not subject to the requirements of this part, such as those excluded under § 1045.5.
(5) Any other engines or vessels where we indicate elsewhere in this part 1045 that they are not to be included in the calculations of this subpart.
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23020, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1045.705
How do I generate and calculate exhaust emission credits?
The provisions of this section apply for calculating exhaust emission credits for HC + NO
X
or CO. You may generate exhaust emission credits only if you are a certifying engine manufacturer.
(a) For each participating family, calculate positive or negative emission credits relative to the otherwise applicable emission standard. Calculate positive emission credits for a family that has an FEL below the standard. Calculate negative emission credits for a family that has an FEL above the standard. Sum your positive and negative credits for the model year before rounding. Round the sum of emission credits to the nearest kilogram (kg) using consistent units throughout the following equation:
Emission credits (kg) = (STD−FEL) × (Volume) × (Power) × (UL) × (LF) × (10
−3
)
Where:
STD = the emission standard, in g/kW-hr.
FEL = the family emission limit for the family, in g/kW-hr.
Volume = the number of engines eligible to participate in the averaging, banking, and trading program within the given family during the model year, as described in § 1045.701(j).
Power = maximum engine power for the family, in kilowatts (
see
§ 1045.140).
UL = The useful life for the given family.
LF = load factor. Use 0.207. We may specify a different load factor if we approve the use of special test procedures for an engine family under 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(2), consistent with good engineering judgment.
(b) [Reserved]
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23020, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1045.706
How do I generate and calculate evaporative emission credits?
The provisions of this section apply for calculating evaporative emission credits. This applies only for fuel tank permeation. You may generate credits only if you are a certifying vessel manufacturer. This may include outboard engine manufacturers if they install under-cowl fuel tanks.
(a) For each participating vessel, calculate positive or negative emission credits relative to the otherwise applicable emission standard. Calculate positive emission credits for a family that has an FEL below the standard. Calculate negative emission credits for a family that has an FEL above the standard. Sum your positive and negative credits for the model year before rounding. Round the sum of emission credits to the nearest kilogram (kg) using consistent units throughout the following equation:
Emission credits (kg) = (STD−FEL) × (Total Area) × (UL) × (AF) × (365) × (10
−3
)
Where:
STD = the emission standard, in g/m
2
/day.
FEL = the family emission limit for the family, in g/m
2
/day, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
Total Area = The combined internal surface area of all fuel tanks in the family, in m
2
.
UL = 5 years, which represents the useful life for the given family.
AF = adjustment factor. Use 1.0 for fuel tank testing performed at 28 °C and 0.60 for testing performed at 40 °C.
(b) For calculating credits under paragraph (a) of this section, the emission standard and FEL must both be based on test measurements at the same temperature (28 ° or 40 °C). Determine the FEL for calculating emission credits (relative to testing at 28 °C) as follows:
(1) To use an FEL below 5.0 g/m
2
/day, it must be based on emission measurements.
(2) The provisions of this paragraph (b)(2) apply for all emission families with FELs at or above 5.0 g/m
2
/day. To calculate emission credits for such emission families, you must choose from one of the following options and apply it to all your emission families with FELs at or above 5.0 g/m
2
/day:
(i) Option 1: Establish all your FELs based on emission measurements. This may include measurements from a certifying fuel tank manufacturer.
(ii) Option 2: Use an assigned FEL of 10.4 g/m
2
/day. This would apply without regard to whether any of these emission families have measured emission levels below 10.4 g/m
2
/day. If any of your fuel tanks were otherwise certified (by you or the fuel tank manufacturer) with an FEL between 5.0 and 10.4 g/m
2
/day, the assigned FEL of 10.4 g/m
2
/day applies only for emission credit calculations.
§ 1045.710
How do I average emission credits?
(a) Averaging is the exchange of emission credits among your families. You may average emission credits only within the same averaging set.
(b) You may certify one or more families to an FEL above the emission standard, subject to the FEL caps and other provisions in subpart B of this part, if you show in your application for certification that your projected balance of all emission-credit transactions in that model year is greater than or equal to zero.
(c) If you certify a family to an FEL that exceeds the otherwise applicable
standard, you must obtain enough emission credits to offset the family's deficit by the due date for the final report required in § 1045.730. The emission credits used to address the deficit may come from your other families that generate emission credits in the same model year, from emission credits you have banked, or from emission credits you obtain through trading.
§ 1045.715
How do I bank emission credits?
(a) Banking is the retention of emission credits by the manufacturer generating the emission credits for use in future model years for averaging or trading. You may use banked emission credits only within the averaging set in which they were generated, except as described in this subpart.
(b) You may designate any emission credits you plan to bank in the reports you submit under § 1045.730. During the model year and before the due date for the final report, you may designate your reserved emission credits for averaging or trading.
(c) Reserved credits become actual emission credits when you submit your final report. However, we may revoke these emission credits if we are unable to verify them after reviewing your reports or auditing your records.
§ 1045.720
How do I trade emission credits?
(a) Trading is the exchange of emission credits between manufacturers. You may use traded emission credits for averaging, banking, or further trading transactions. Traded emission credits may be used only within the averaging set in which they were generated, except as described in this subpart.
(b) You may trade actual emission credits as described in this subpart. You may also trade reserved emission credits, but we may revoke these emission credits based on our review of your records or reports or those of the company with which you traded emission credits. You may trade banked credits within an averaging set to any certifying engine or vessel manufacturer.
(c) If a negative emission credit balance results from a transaction, both the buyer and seller are liable, except in cases we deem to involve fraud. See § 1045.255(e) for cases involving fraud. We may void the certificates of all families participating in a trade that results in a manufacturer having a negative balance of emission credits. See § 1045.745.
§ 1045.725
What must I include in my application for certification?
(a) You must declare in your application for certification your intent to use the provisions of this subpart for each family that will be certified using the ABT program. You must also declare the FELs you select for the family for each pollutant for which you are using the ABT program. Your FELs must comply with the specifications of subpart B of this part, including the FEL caps. FELs must be expressed to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard.
(b) Include the following in your application for certification:
(1) A statement that, to the best of your belief, you will not have a negative balance of emission credits for any averaging set when all emission credits are calculated at the end of the year.
(2) Detailed calculations of projected emission credits (positive or negative) based on projected production volumes. We may require you to include similar calculations from your other engine families to demonstrate that you will be able to avoid a negative credit balance for the model year. If you project negative emission credits for a family, state the source of positive emission credits you expect to use to offset the negative emission credits.
§ 1045.730
What ABT reports must I send to EPA?
(a) If any of your families are certified using the ABT provisions of this subpart, you must send an end-of-year report within 90 days after the end of the model year and a final report within 270 days after the end of the model year. We may waive the requirement to send the end-of year report as long as you send the final report on time.
(b) Your end-of-year and final reports must include the following information for each family participating in the ABT program:
(1) Family designation.
(2) The emission standards that would otherwise apply to the family.
(3) The FEL for each pollutant. If you change the FEL after the start of production, identify the date that you started using the new FEL and/or give the engine identification number for the first engine covered by the new FEL. In this case, identify each applicable FEL and calculate the positive or negative emission credits under each FEL.
(4) The projected and actual production volumes for the model year with a point of retail sale in the United States, as described in § 1045.701(j). For fuel tanks, state the production volume in terms of total surface area and production volume for each tank configuration and state the total surface area for the emission family. If you changed an FEL during the model year, identify the actual production volume associated with each FEL.
(5) Maximum engine power for each engine configuration, and your declared value of maximum engine power for the engine family (see § 1045.140).
(6) Useful life.
(7) Calculated positive or negative emission credits for the whole family. Identify any emission credits that you traded, as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(c) Your end-of-year and final reports must include the following additional information:
(1) Show that your net balance of emission credits from all your participating families in each averaging set in the applicable model year is not negative.
(2) State whether you will retain any emission credits for banking.
(3) State that the report's contents are accurate.
(d) If you trade emission credits, you must send us a report within 90 days after the transaction, as follows:
(1) As the seller, you must include the following information in your report:
(i) The corporate names of the buyer and any brokers.
(ii) A copy of any contracts related to the trade.
(iii) The families that generated emission credits for the trade, including the number of emission credits from each family.
(2) As the buyer, you must include the following information in your report:
(i) The corporate names of the seller and any brokers.
(ii) A copy of any contracts related to the trade.
(iii) How you intend to use the emission credits, including the number of emission credits you intend to apply to each family (if known).
(e) Send your reports electronically to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.
(f) Correct errors in your end-of-year report or final report as follows:
(1) You may correct any errors in your end-of-year report when you prepare the final report as long as you send us the final report by the time it is due.
(2) If you or we determine within 270 days after the end of the model year that errors mistakenly decreased your balance of emission credits, you may correct the errors and recalculate the balance of emission credits. You may not make these corrections for errors that are determined more than 270 days after the end of the model year. If you report a negative balance of emission credits, we may disallow corrections under this paragraph (f)(2).
(3) If you or we determine anytime that errors mistakenly increased your balance of emission credits, you must correct the errors and recalculate the balance of emission credits.
§ 1045.735
What records must I keep?
(a) You must organize and maintain your records as described in this section. We may review your records at any time.
(b) Keep the records required by this section for at least eight years after the due date for the end-of-year report. You may not use emission credits for any engines or vessel if you do not keep all the records required under this section. You must therefore keep these records to continue to bank valid credits. Store these records in any format and on any media as long as you can
promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. You must keep these records readily available. We may review them at any time.
(c) Keep a copy of the reports we require in §§ 1045.725 and 1045.730.
(d) Keep records of the engine identification number for each engine or vessel you produce that generates or uses emission credits under the ABT program. You may identify these numbers as a range.
(e) We may require you to keep additional records or to send us relevant information not required by this section in accordance with the Clean Air Act.
§ 1045.745
What can happen if I do not comply with the provisions of this subpart?
(a) For each family participating in the ABT program, the certificate of conformity is conditional upon full compliance with the provisions of this subpart during and after the model year. You are responsible to establish to our satisfaction that you fully comply with applicable requirements. We may void the certificate of conformity for a family if you fail to comply with any provisions of this subpart.
(b) You may certify your family to an FEL above an emission standard based on a projection that you will have enough emission credits to offset the deficit for the family. However, we may void the certificate of conformity if you cannot show in your final report that you have enough actual emission credits to offset a deficit for any pollutant in a family.
(c) We may void the certificate of conformity for a family if you fail to keep records, send reports, or give us information we request.
(d) You may ask for a hearing if we void your certificate under this section (see § 1045.820).

# Subpart I—Definitions and Other Reference Information
§ 1045.801
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part. The definitions apply to all subparts unless we note otherwise. All undefined terms have the meaning the Clean Air Act gives to them. The definitions follow:
Adjustable parameter
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.50.
Aftertreatment
means relating to a catalytic converter, particulate filter, or any other system, component, or technology mounted downstream of the exhaust valve (or exhaust port) whose design function is to decrease emissions in the engine exhaust before it is exhausted to the environment. Exhaust-gas recirculation (EGR), turbochargers, and oxygen sensors are not aftertreatment.
Alcohol-fueled engine
means an engine that is designed to run using an alcohol fuel. For purposes of this definition, alcohol fuels do not include fuels with a nominal alcohol content below 25 percent by volume.
Amphibious vehicle
means a vehicle with wheels or tracks that is designed primarily for operation on land and secondarily for operation in water.
Applicable emission standard
or
applicable standard
means an emission standard to which an engine (or vessel) is subject. Additionally, if an engine (or vessel) has been or is being certified to another standard or FEL,
applicable emission standard
means the FEL or other standard to which the engine (or vessel) has been or is being certified. This definition does not apply to subpart H of this part.
Auxiliary emission control device
means any element of design that senses temperature, motive speed, engine RPM, transmission gear, or any other parameter for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying, or deactivating the operation of any part of the emission control system.
Brake power
means the usable power output of the engine, not including power required to fuel, lubricate, or heat the engine, circulate coolant to the engine, or to operate aftertreatment devices.
Calibration
means the set of specifications and tolerances specific to a particular design, version, or application of a component or assembly capable of functionally describing its operation over its working range.
Carryover
means relating to certification based on emission data generated from an earlier model year, as described in § 1045.235(d).
Certification
means relating to the process of obtaining a certificate of conformity for an engine family that complies with the emission standards and requirements in this part.
Certified emission level
means the highest deteriorated emission level in an engine family for a given pollutant from either transient or steady-state testing.
Clean Air Act
means the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.
Conventional sterndrive/inboard engine
means a sterndrive/inboard engine that is not a high-performance engine.
Crankcase emissions
means airborne substances emitted to the atmosphere from any part of the engine crankcase's ventilation or lubrication systems. The crankcase is the housing for the crankshaft and other related internal parts.
Critical emission-related component
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Date of manufacture
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Days
means calendar days unless otherwise specified. For example, when we specify working days we mean calendar days, excluding weekends and U.S. national holidays.
Designated Compliance Officer
means the Manager, Heavy-Duty and Nonroad Engine Group (6405-J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460.
Designated Enforcement Officer
means the Director, Air Enforcement Division (2242A), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460.
Deteriorated emission level
means the emission level that results from applying the appropriate deterioration factor to the official emission result of the emission-data engine.
Deterioration factor
means the relationship between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point (see §§ 1045.240 and 1045.245), expressed in one of the following ways:
(1) For multiplicative deterioration factors, the ratio of emissions at the end of useful life to emissions at the low-hour test point.
(2) For additive deterioration factors, the difference between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point.
Discrete-mode
means relating to the discrete-mode type of steady-state test described in § 1045.505.
Dual fuel
means relating to an engine designed for operation on two different fuels but not on a continuous mixture of those fuels.
Emission control system
means any device, system, or element of design that controls or reduces the emissions of regulated pollutants from an engine.
Emission-data engine
means an engine that is tested for certification. This includes engines tested to establish deterioration factors.
Emission-related maintenance
means maintenance that substantially affects emissions or is likely to substantially affect emission deterioration.
Engine
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. This includes complete and partially complete engines.
Engine configuration
means a unique combination of engine hardware and calibration within an engine family. Engines within a single engine configuration differ only with respect to normal production variability.
Engine family
has the meaning given in § 1045.230.
Engine manufacturer
means the manufacturer of the engine. See the definition of “manufacturer” in this section.
Evaporative
means relating to fuel emissions controlled by 40 CFR part 1060. This generally includes emissions that result from permeation of fuel through the fuel-system materials or from ventilation of the fuel system.
Excluded
means relating to an engine that either:
(1) Has been determined not to be a nonroad engine, as specified in 40 CFR 1068.30; or
(2) Is a nonroad engine that, according to § 1045.5, is not subject to this part 1045.
Exempted
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Exhaust-gas recirculation (EGR)
means a technology that reduces emissions by routing exhaust gases that had been
exhausted from the combustion chamber(s) back into the engine to be mixed with incoming air before or during combustion. The use of valve timing to increase the amount of residual exhaust gas in the combustion chamber(s) that is mixed with incoming air before or during combustion is not considered exhaust-gas recirculation for the purposes of this part.
Family emission limit (FEL)
means an emission level declared by the manufacturer to serve in place of the emission standards specified in subpart B of this part under the ABT program in subpart H of this part. The family emission limit must be expressed to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard it replaces. The family emission limit serves as the emission standard for the engine family (exhaust) or emission family (evaporative) with respect to all required testing.
Flexible-fuel
means relating to an engine designed for operation on any mixture of two or more different fuels.
Fuel line
means hose, tubing, and primer bulbs containing or exposed to liquid fuel, including hose or tubing that delivers fuel to or from the engine, as follows:
(1) This includes flexible molded sections for transporting liquid fuel to or from the engine, but does not include inflexible components for connecting hose or tubing.
(2) This includes hose or tubing for the vent line or filler neck if fuel systems are designed such that any portion of the vent-line or filler-neck material continues to be exposed to liquid fuel after completion of a refueling event in which an operator fills the fuel tank using typical methods. For example, we would not consider a filler neck to be a fuel line if an operator stops refueling after an initial automatic shutoff that signals the fuel tank is full, where any liquid fuel in the filler neck during the refueling procedure drains into the fuel tank.
(3) This does not include primer bulbs that contain liquid fuel only for priming the engine before starting.
Fuel system
means all components involved in transporting, metering, and mixing the fuel from the fuel tank to the combustion chamber(s), including the fuel tank, fuel tank cap, fuel pump, fuel filters, fuel lines, carburetor or fuel-injection components, and all fuel-system vents. In the case where the fuel tank cap or other components (excluding fuel lines) are directly mounted on the fuel tank, they are considered to be a part of the fuel tank.
Fuel type
means a general category of fuels such as gasoline or natural gas. There can be multiple grades within a single fuel type, such as low-temperature or all-season gasoline.
Good engineering judgment
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. See 40 CFR 1068.5 for the administrative process we use to evaluate good engineering judgment.
High-performance
means relating to a sterndrive/inboard engine with maximum engine power above 373 kW that has design features to enhance power output such that the expected operating time until rebuild is substantially shorter than 480 hours.
Hydrocarbon (HC)
means the hydrocarbon group on which the emission standards are based for each fuel type, as described in subpart B of this part.
Identification number
means a unique specification (for example, a model number/serial number combination) that allows someone to distinguish a particular engine from other similar engines.
Jet boat
means a vessel that uses an installed internal combustion engine powering a water jet pump as its primary source of propulsion and is designed with open area for carrying passengers. Jet boat engines qualify as sterndrive/inboard engines.
Low-hour
means relating to an engine that has stabilized emissions and represents the undeteriorated emission level. This would generally involve less than 30 hours of operation.
Manufacture
means the physical and engineering process of designing, constructing, and assembling an engine or vessel.
Manufacturer
has the meaning given in section 216(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7550(1)). In general, this term includes any person who manufactures an engine, or vessel for sale in the United States or otherwise introduces
a new marine engine into U.S. commerce. This includes importers who import engines or vessels for resale, but not dealers. All manufacturing entities under the control of the same person are considered to be a single manufacturer.
Marine engine
means a nonroad engine that is installed or intended to be installed on a vessel. This includes a portable auxiliary marine engine only if its fueling, cooling, or exhaust system is an integral part of the vessel. There are two kinds of marine engines:
(1)
Propulsion marine engine
means a marine engine that moves a vessel through the water or directs the vessel's movement.
(2)
Auxiliary marine engine
means a marine engine not used for propulsion.
Marine vessel
has the meaning given in 1 U.S.C. 3, except that it does not include amphibious vehicles. The definition in 1 U.S.C. 3 very broadly includes every craft capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
Maximum engine power
has the meaning given in § 1045.140.
Maximum test speed
has one of the following meanings:
(1) For all testing with two-stroke engines and for testing four-stroke engines on an engine dynamometer,
maximum test speed
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001 and § 1045.501.
(2) For testing a four-stroke engine that remains installed in a vessel,
maximum test speed
means the engine speed during sustained operation with maximum operator demand.
Model year
means one of the following things:
(1) For freshly manufactured vessels and engines (see definition of “new propulsion marine engine,” paragraph (1)), model year means one of the following:
(i) Calendar year.
(ii) Your annual new model production period if it is different than the calendar year. This must include January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named. It may not begin before January 2 of the previous calendar year and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year. For seasonal production periods not including January 1, model year means the calendar year in which the production occurs, unless you choose to certify the applicable engine family with the following model year. For example, if your production period is June 1, 2010 through November 30, 2010, your model year would be 2010 unless you choose to certify the engine family for model year 2011.
(2) For an engine that is converted to a propulsion marine engine after being certified and placed into service as a motor vehicle engine, a nonroad engine that is not a propulsion marine engine, or a stationary engine, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced. For an engine that is converted to a propulsion marine engine after being placed into service as a motor vehicle engine, a nonroad engine that is not a propulsion marine engine, or a stationary engine without having been certified, model year means the calendar year in which the engine becomes a new propulsion marine engine. (
See
definition of “new propulsion marine engine,” paragraph (2).)
(3) [Reserved]
(4) For engines that are not freshly manufactured but are installed in new vessels, model year means the calendar year in which the engine is installed in the new vessel (see definition of “new propulsion marine engine,” paragraph (4)).
(5) For imported engines:
(i) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(i) of the definition of “new propulsion marine engine,”
model year
has the meaning given in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition.
(ii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(ii) of the definition of “new propulsion marine engine,”
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine is modified.
(iii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(iii) of the definition of “new propulsion marine nonroad engine,”
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine is first assembled in its imported configuration, unless specified otherwise in this part or in 40 CFR part 1068.
New portable marine fuel tanks and fuel lines
means portable marine fuel tanks and fuel lines that have not yet been placed into service, or which are otherwise offered for sales as new products.
New propulsion marine engine
or
new engine
means any of the following things:
(1) A freshly manufactured propulsion marine engine for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. This kind of engine might commonly be thought of as “brand new.” In the case of this paragraph (1), the engine is new from the time it is produced until the ultimate purchaser receives the title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(2) An engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine, a nonroad engine that is not a propulsion marine engine, or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used as a propulsion marine engine. In this case, the engine is no longer a motor vehicle, nonpropulsion, or stationary engine and becomes a “new propulsion marine engine.” The engine is no longer new when it is placed into service as a marine propulsion engine. This paragraph (2) applies for engines we exclude under § 1045.5, where that engine is later installed as a propulsion engine in a vessel that is covered by this part 1045.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) An engine not covered by paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition that is intended to be installed in a new vessel. This generally includes installation of used engines in new vessels. The engine is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the vessel or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(5) An imported marine engine, subject to the following provisions:
(i) An imported marine engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part that meets the criteria of one or more of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, where the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate, is new as defined by those applicable paragraphs.
(ii) An imported engine that will be covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part, where someone other than the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate (such as when the engine is modified after its initial assembly), is a new propulsion marine engine when it is imported. It is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the engine or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(iii) An imported propulsion marine engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation is new. This addresses uncertified engines and vessels initially placed into service that someone seeks to import into the United States. Importation of this kind of engine (or vessel containing such an engine) is generally prohibited by 40 CFR part 1068. However, the importation of such an engine is not prohibited if the engine has an earlier model year than that identified in the following table, since it is not subject to standards:
Applicability of Emission Standards for Propulsion Marine Engines
Engine type
Initial model year of emission standards
Outboard
1998
Personal watercraft
1999
Sterndrive/inboard
2010
New vessel
means either of the following things:
(1) A vessel for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. The product is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives this title or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(2) An imported vessel that has already been placed into service, where it has an engine not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation that was manufactured after the requirements of this part start to apply (see § 1045.1).
Noncompliant engine
means an engine that was originally covered by a certificate of conformity but is not in the certified configuration or otherwise does not comply with the conditions of the certificate.
Nonconforming engine
means an engine not covered by a certificate of conformity that would otherwise be subject to emission standards.
Nonmethane hydrocarbon
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This generally means the difference between
the emitted mass of total hydrocarbons and the emitted mass of methane.
Nonroad
means relating to nonroad engines, or vessels, or equipment that include nonroad engines.
Nonroad engine
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general, this means all internal-combustion engines except motor vehicle engines, stationary engines, engines used solely for competition, or engines used in aircraft.
Official emission result
means the measured emission rate for an emission-data engine on a given duty cycle before the application of any deterioration factor.
Outboard engine
means an assembly of a spark-ignition engine and drive unit used to propel a vessel from a properly mounted position external to the hull of the vessel. An outboard drive unit is partially submerged during operation and can be tilted out of the water when not in use.
Owners manual
means a document or collection of documents prepared by the engine manufacturer for the owner or operator to describe appropriate engine maintenance, applicable warranties, and any other information related to operating or keeping the engine. The owners manual is typically provided to the ultimate purchaser at the time of sale. The owners manual may be in paper or electronic format.
Oxides of nitrogen
has the meaning given in 40 CFR part 1065.1001.
Personal watercraft
means a vessel less than 4.0 meters (13 feet) in length that uses an installed spark-ignition engine powering a water jet pump as its primary source of propulsion and is designed with no open load carrying area that would retain water. The vessel is designed to be operated by a person or persons positioned on, rather than within the confines of the hull. A vessel using an outboard engine as its primary source of propulsion is not a personal watercraft.
Personal watercraft engine
means a spark-ignition engine used to propel a personal watercraft.
Placed into service
means put into initial use for its intended purpose.
Point of first retail sale
means the location at which the initial retail sale occurs. This generally means an equipment dealership, but may also include an engine seller or distributor in cases where loose engines are sold to the general public for uses such as replacement engines.
Portable marine fuel tank
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1060.801.
Ramped-modal
means relating to the ramped-modal type of steady-state test described in § 1045.505.
Revoke
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general this means to terminate the certificate or an exemption for an engine family.
Round
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Scheduled maintenance
means adjusting, repairing, removing, disassembling, cleaning, or replacing components or systems periodically to keep a part or system from failing, malfunctioning, or wearing prematurely. It also may mean actions you expect are necessary to correct an overt indication of failure or malfunction for which periodic maintenance is not appropriate.
Small-volume engine manufacturer
means an engine manufacturer with 250 or fewer employees. This includes any employees working for a parent company and all its subsidiaries.
Small-volume vessel manufacturer
means a vessel manufacturer with 500 or fewer employees. This includes any employees working for a parent company and all its subsidiaries.
Spark-ignition
means relating to a gasoline-fueled engine or any other type of engine with a spark plug (or other sparking device) and with operating characteristics significantly similar to the theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark-ignition engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air flow to control power during normal operation.
Steady-state
means relating to emission tests in which engine speed and load are held at a finite set of essentially constant values. Steady-state tests are either discrete-mode tests or ramped-modal tests.
Sterndrive/inboard engine
means a spark-ignition engine that is used to propel a vessel, but is not an outboard engine or a personal watercraft engine. A sterndrive/inboard engine may be either a conventional sterndrive/inboard
engine or a high-performance engine. Engines on propeller-driven vessels, jet boats, air boats, and hovercraft are all sterndrive/inboard engines.
Stoichiometric
means relating to the particular ratio of air and fuel such that if the fuel were fully oxidized, there would be no remaining fuel or oxygen. For example, stoichiometric combustion in a gasoline-fueled engine typically occurs at an air-to-fuel mass ratio of about 14.7:1.
Suspend
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general this means to temporarily discontinue the certificate or an exemption for an engine family.
Test engine
means an engine in a test sample.
Test sample
means the collection of engines selected from the population of an engine family for emission testing. This may include testing for certification, production-line testing, or in-use testing.
Total hydrocarbon
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This generally means the combined mass of organic compounds measured by the specified procedure for measuring total hydrocarbon, expressed as a hydrocarbon with a hydrogen-to-carbon mass ratio of 1.85:1.
Total hydrocarbon equivalent
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This generally means the sum of the carbon mass contributions of non-oxygenated hydrocarbons, alcohols and aldehydes, or other organic compounds that are measured separately as contained in a gas sample, expressed as exhaust hydrocarbon from petroleum-fueled engines. The hydrogen-to-carbon ratio of the equivalent hydrocarbon is 1.85:1.
Ultimate purchaser
means, with respect to any new vessel or new marine propulsion engine, the first person who in good faith purchases such new vessel or new engine for purposes other than resale.
Under-cowl fuel line
means a fuel line that is entirely contained within the cowl of an outboard engine. This does not include a fuel line that crosses through the cowl housing.
United States
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Upcoming model year for an engine family
means the model year after the one currently in production.
U.S.-directed production volume
means the number of engine units, subject to the requirements of this part, produced by a manufacturer for which the manufacturer has a reasonable assurance that sale was or will be made to ultimate purchasers in the United States.
Useful life
means the period during which a vehicle is required to comply with all applicable emission standards, specified as a given number of hours of operation or calendar years, whichever comes first. It is the period during which an engine is required to comply with all applicable emission standards. See §§ 1045.103(e), 1045.105(e), and 1045.112. If an engine has no hour meter, the specified number of hours does not limit the period during which an in-use engine is required to comply with emission standards unless the degree of service accumulation can be verified separately.
Variable-speed engine
means an engine that is not a constant-speed engine.
Vessel
means marine vessel.
Void
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general this means to invalidate a certificate or an exemption both retroactively and prospectively.
Volatile liquid fuel
means any fuel other than diesel or biodiesel that is a liquid at atmospheric pressure and has a Reid Vapor Pressure higher than 2.0 pounds per square inch.
We (us, our)
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and any authorized representatives.
Wide-open throttle
means maximum throttle opening. Unless this is specified at a given speed, it refers to maximum throttle opening at maximum speed. For electronically controlled or other engines with multiple possible fueling rates, wide-open throttle also means the maximum fueling rate at maximum throttle opening under test conditions.
[73 FR 59194, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23020, Apr. 30, 2010; 88 FR 4665, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1045.805
What symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations does this part use?
The following symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations apply to this part:
ABT Averaging, banking, and trading.
AECD Auxiliary emission control device.
CFR Code of Federal Regulations.
CH
4
methane.
CO carbon monoxide.
CO
2
carbon dioxide.
EPA Environmental Protection Agency.
FEL Family Emission Limit.
g gram.
HC hydrocarbon.
hr hour.
kPa kilopascals.
kW kilowatt.
m meter.
N
2
O nitrous oxide.
NARA National Archives and Records Administration.
NMHC nonmethane hydrocarbons.
NO
X
oxides of nitrogen (NO and NO
2
).
NTE not-to-exceed
psig pounds per square inch of gauge pressure.
RPM revolutions per minute.
SAE Society of Automotive Engineers.
THC total hydrocarbon.
THCE total hydrocarbon equivalent.
U.S.C. United States Code.
§ 1045.810
What materials does this part reference?
Documents listed in this section have been incorporated by reference into this part. The Director of the Federal Register approved the incorporation by reference as prescribed in 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Anyone may inspect copies at the U.S. EPA, Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Room B102, EPA West Building, Washington, DC 20460 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(a)
SAE material.
Table 1 to this section lists material from the Society of Automotive Engineers that we have incorporated by reference. The first column lists the number and name of the material. The second column lists the sections of this part where we reference it. Anyone may purchase copies of these materials from the Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096 or
http://www.sae.org.
Table 1 follows:
Table 1 to § 1045.810—SAE Materials
Document number and name
Part 1045 reference
SAE J1939-05, Marine Stern Drive and Inboard Spark-Ignition Engine On-Board Diagnostics Implementation Guide, February 2008
1045.110
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1045.815
What provisions apply to confidential information?
The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.10 and 1068.11 apply for information you submit under this part.
[88 FR 4665, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1045.820
How do I request a hearing?
(a) You may request a hearing under certain circumstances as described elsewhere in this part. To do this, you must file a written request, including a description of your objection and any supporting data, within 30 days after we make a decision.
(b) For a hearing you request under the provisions of this part, we will approve your request if we find that your request raises a substantial factual issue.
(c) If we agree to hold a hearing, we will use the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G.
§ 1045.825
What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?
Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
), the Office of Management and Budget approves the reporting and recordkeeping specified in the applicable regulations. The following items illustrate the kind of reporting and recordkeeping we require for engines and vessels regulated under this part:
(a) We specify the following requirements related to engine and vessel certification in this part 1045:
(1) In § 1045.20 we require vessel manufacturers to label their vessels if they are relying on component certification.
(2) In § 1045.135 we require engine manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels sent to vessel manufacturers.
(3) In § 1045.145 we include various reporting and recordkeeping requirements related to interim provisions.
(4) In subpart C of this part we identify a wide range of information required to certify engines.
(5) In §§ 1045.345 and 1045.350 we specify certain records related to production-line testing.
(6) In §§ 1045.420 and 1045.425 we specify certain records related to in-use testing.
(7) In subpart G of this part we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various special compliance provisions.
(8) In §§ 1045.725, 1045.730, and 1045.735 we specify certain records related to averaging, banking, and trading.
(b) We specify the following requirements related to vessel or component certification in 40 CFR part 1060:
(1) In 40 CFR 1060.20 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.
(2) In 40 CFR part 1060, subpart C, we identify a wide range of information required to certify products.
(3) In 40 CFR 1060.301 we require manufacturers to make engines or vessels available for our testing if we make such a request.
(4) In 40 CFR 1060.505 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.
(c) We specify the following requirements related to testing in 40 CFR part 1065:
(1) In 40 CFR 1065.2 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.
(2) In 40 CFR 1065.10 and 1065.12 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.
(3) In 40 CFR 1065.25 we establish basic guidelines for storing test information.
(4) In 40 CFR 1065.695 we identify data that may be appropriate for collecting during testing of in-use engines using portable analyzers.
(d) We specify the following requirements related to the general compliance provisions in 40 CFR part 1068:
(1) In 40 CFR 1068.5 we establish a process for evaluating good engineering judgment related to testing and certification.
(2) In 40 CFR 1068.25 we describe general provisions related to sending and keeping information.
(3) In 40 CFR 1068.27 we require manufacturers to make engines available for our testing or inspection if we make such a request.
(4) In 40 CFR 1068.105 we require vessel manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels from engine manufacturers.
(5) In 40 CFR 1068.120 we specify recordkeeping related to rebuilding engines.
(6) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various exemptions.
(7) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart D, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to importing engines.
(8) In 40 CFR 1068.450 and 1068.455 we specify certain records related to testing production-line engines in a selective enforcement audit.
(9) In 40 CFR 1068.501 we specify certain records related to investigating and reporting emission-related defects.
(10) In 40 CFR 1068.525 and 1068.530 we specify certain records related to recalling nonconforming engines.
Pt. 1045, App. I

# Appendix I to Part 1045—Summary of Previous Emission Standards
(a) The following standards, which EPA originally adopted under 40 CFR part 91, apply to outboard and personal watercraft engines produced from model year 2006 through 2009:
(1) For engines at or below 4.3 kW, the HC+NO
X
standard is 81.00 g/kW-hr.
(2) For engines above 4.3 kW, the following HC+NO
X
standard applies:
HC+NO
X
standard = (151 + 557/P0.9) ⋅ 0.250 + 6.00
Where:
STD = The HC+NO
X
emission standard, in g/kW-hr.
P = The average power of an engine family, in kW.
(b) Table 1 of this appendix describes the phase-in standards for outboard and personal watercraft engines for model years 1998 through 2005. For engines with maximum engine power above 4.3 kW, the standard is expressed by the following formula, in g/kW-hr,
with constants for each year identified in Table 1 of this appendix:
ER29JN21.168
Table 1 of Appendix I—HC+NO
X
Phase-In Standards for Outboard and Personal Watercraft Engines
Model year
Maximum
engine power
4.3 kW
Maximum engine power
4.3 kW
A
B
1998
278.00
0.917
2.44
1999
253.00
0.833
2.89
2000
228.00
0.750
3.33
2001
204.00
0.667
3.78
2002
179.00
0.583
4.22
2003
155.00
0.500
4.67
2004
130.00
0.417
5.11
2005
105.00
0.333
5.56
[86 FR 34514, June 29, 2021]
Pt. 1045, App. II

# Appendix II to Part 1045—Duty Cycles for Propulsion Marine Engines
(a) The following duty cycle applies for discrete-mode testing:
E4 Mode No.
Engine
speed
1
Torque
(percent)
2
Weighting
factors
1
Maximum test speed
100
0.06
2
80%
71.6
0.14
3
60%
46.5
0.15
4
40%
25.3
0.25
5
Warm idle
0
0.40
1
Speed terms are defined in 40 CFR part 1065. Percent speed values are relative to maximum test speed.
2
Except as noted in § 1045.505, the percent torque is relative to maximum torque at maximum test speed.
(b) The following duty cycle applies for ramped-modal testing:
RMC Mode
Time in mode
(seconds)
Engine speed
1 2
Torque (percent)
2 3
1a Steady-state
225
Idle
0
1b Transition
20
Linear transition
Linear transition
2a Steady-state
63
Maximum test speed
100
2b Transition
20
Linear transition
Linear transition
*3a Steady-state
271
40%
25.3%
3b Transition
20
Linear transition
Linear transition
4a Steady-state
151
80%
71.6%
4b Transition
20
Linear transition
Linear transition
5a Steady-state
161
60%
46.5%
5b Transition
20
Linear transition
Linear transition
6 Steady-state
229
Warm idle
0
1
Speed terms are defined in 40 CFR part 1065. Percent speed values are relative to maximum test speed.
2
Advance from one mode to the next within a 20-second transition phase. During the transition phase, command linear progressions of speed and torque from the speed setting and torque setting of the current mode to the speed setting and torque setting of the next mode.
3
Except as noted in § 1045.505, the percent torque is relative to maximum torque at maximum test speed.
Pt. 1048

# PART 1048—CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, LARGE NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES

# Subpart A—Overview and Applicability
Sec.
1048.1
Does this part apply to me?
1048.2
Who is responsible for compliance?
1048.5
Which engines are excluded from this part's requirements?
1048.10
How is this part organized?
1048.15
Do any other regulation parts apply to me?
1048.20
What requirements from this part apply to excluded stationary engines?
1048.30
Submission of information.

# Subpart B—Emission Standards and Related Requirements
1048.101
What exhaust emission standards must my engines meet?
1048.105
What evaporative emissions standards and requirements apply?
1048.110
How must my engines diagnose malfunctions?
1048.115
What other requirements apply?
1048.120
What warranty requirements apply to me?
1048.125
What maintenance instructions must I give to buyers?
1048.130
What installation instructions must I give to equipment manufacturers?
1048.135
How must I label and identify the engines I produce?
1048.140
What are the provisions for certifying Blue Sky Series engines?
1048.145
Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?

# Subpart C—Certifying Engine Families
1048.201
What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity?
1048.205
What must I include in my application?
1048.210
May I get preliminary approval before I complete my application?
1048.220
How do I amend the maintenance instructions in my application?
1048.225
How do I amend my application for certification to include new or modified engine configurations?
1048.230
How do I select engine families?
1048.235
What emission testing must I perform for my application for a certificate of conformity?
1048.240
How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?
1048.245
How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with evaporative emission standards?
1048.250
What records must I keep and make available to EPA?
1048.255
What decisions may EPA make regarding a certificate of conformity?

# Subpart D—Testing Production-line Engines
1048.301
When must I test my production-line engines?
1048.305
How must I prepare and test my production-line engines?
1048.310
How must I select engines for production-line testing?
1048.315
How do I know when my engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
1048.320
What happens if one of my production-line engines fails to meet emission standards?
1048.325
What happens if an engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
1048.330
May I sell engines from an engine family with a suspended certificate of conformity?
1048.335
How do I ask EPA to reinstate my suspended certificate?
1048.340
When may EPA revoke my certificate under this subpart and how may I sell these engines again?
1048.345
What production-line testing records must I send to EPA?
1048.350
What records must I keep?

# Subpart E—Testing In-use Engines
1048.401
What testing requirements apply to my engines that have gone into service?
1048.405
How does this program work?
1048.410
How must I select, prepare, and test my in-use engines?
1048.415
What happens if in-use engines do not meet requirements?
1048.420
What in-use testing information must I report to EPA?
1048.425
What records must I keep?

# Subpart F—Test Procedures
1048.501
How do I run a valid emission test?
1048.505
How do I test engines using steady-state duty cycles, including ramped-modal testing?
1048.510
What transient duty cycles apply for laboratory testing?
1048.515
What are the field-testing procedures?

# Subpart G—Compliance Provisions
1048.601
What compliance provisions apply to these engines?
1048.605
What provisions apply to engines certified under the motor vehicle program?
1048.610
What provisions apply to vehicles certified under the motor vehicle program?
1048.612
What is the exemption for delegated final assembly?
1048.615
What are the provisions for exempting engines designed for lawn and garden applications?
1048.620
What are the provisions for exempting large engines fueled by natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas?
1048.625
What special provisions apply to engines using noncommercial fuels?
1048.630
What are the provisions for exempting engines used solely for competition?
1048.635
What special provisions apply to branded engines?
1048.640
What special provisions apply for small-volume engine manufacturers?
Subpart H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions and Other Reference Information
1048.801
What definitions apply to this part?
1048.805
What symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations does this part use?
1048.810
What materials does this part reference?
1048.815
What provisions apply to confidential information?
1048.820
How do I request a hearing?
1048.825
What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?
Appendix I to Part 1048 [Reserved]
Appendix II to Part 1048—Large Spark-ignition (SI) Composite Transient Cycle

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.

# Source:
67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Overview and Applicability
§ 1048.1
Does this part apply to me?
(a) The regulations in this part 1048 apply for all new, spark-ignition nonroad engines (defined in § 1048.801) with maximum engine power above 19 kW, except as provided in § 1048.5.
(b) This part 1048 applies for engines built on or after January 1, 2004. You need not follow this part for engines you produce before January 1, 2004.
See
§§ 1048.101 through 1048.115, § 1048.145, and the definition of model year in § 1048.801 for more information about the timing of new requirements.
(c) The definition of nonroad engine in 40 CFR 1068.30 excludes certain engines used in stationary applications. These engines may be required by 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ, to comply with some of the provisions of this part 1048; otherwise, these engines are only required to comply with the requirements in § 1048.20. In addition, the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101 restrict the use of stationary engines for nonstationary purposes unless they are certified under this part 1048 to the same standards that would apply to nonroad engines for the same model year.
(d) In certain cases, the regulations in this part 1048 apply to engines with maximum engine power at or below 19 kW that would otherwise be covered by 40 CFR part 90 or 1054. See 40 CFR 90.913 or 1054.615 for provisions related to this allowance.
[70 FR 40465, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 3613, Jan. 18, 2008; 73 FR 59231, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.2
Who is responsible for compliance?
The regulations in this part 1048 contain provisions that affect both engine manufacturers and others. However, the requirements of this part are generally addressed to the engine manufacturer. The term “you” generally means the engine manufacturer, as defined in § 1048.801, especially for issues related to certification (including production-line testing, reporting, etc.).
[73 FR 59231, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.5
Which engines are excluded from this part's requirements?
This part does not apply to the following nonroad engines:
(a) Engines that are certified to meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 1051, or are otherwise subject to 40 CFR part 1051 (for example, engines used in snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles).
(b) Propulsion marine engines. See 40 CFR parts 91 and 1045. This part applies with respect to auxiliary marine engines.
(c) Engines that are certified to meet the requirements of 40 CFR parts 92 or 1033 (locomotive engines), or are otherwise subject to 40 CFR parts 92 or 1033.
[70 FR 40465, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59232, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.10
How is this part organized?
This part 1048 is divided into the following subparts:
(a) Subpart A of this part defines the applicability of part 1048 and gives an overview of regulatory requirements.
(b) Subpart B of this part describes the emission standards and other requirements that must be met to certify engines under this part. Note that § 1048.145 discusses certain interim requirements and compliance provisions that apply only for a limited time.
(c) Subpart C of this part describes how to apply for a certificate of conformity.
(d) Subpart D of this part describes general provisions for testing production-line engines.
(e) Subpart E of this part describes general provisions for testing in-use engines.
(f) Subpart F of this part describes how to test your engines (including references to other parts of the Code of Federal Regulations).
(g) Subpart G of this part and 40 CFR part 1068 describe requirements, prohibitions, and other provisions that apply to engine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, owners, operators, rebuilders, and all others.
(h) [Reserved]
(i) Subpart I of this part contains definitions and other reference information.
[70 FR 40465, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59232, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.15
Do any other regulation parts apply to me?
(a) Part 1060 of this chapter describes standards and procedures for controlling evaporative emissions from engines fueled by gasoline or other volatile liquid fuels and the associated fuel systems. These requirements apply to engine manufacturers as specified in this part 1048. Part 1060 applies optionally for equipment manufacturers and fuel-system component manufacturers for certifying their products.
(b) Part 1065 of this chapter describes procedures and equipment specifications for testing engines to measure exhaust emissions. Subpart F of this part 1048 describes how to apply the provisions of part 1065 of this chapter to determine whether engines meet the exhaust emission standards in this part.
(c) The requirements and prohibitions of part 1068 of this chapter apply to everyone, including anyone who manufactures, imports, installs, owns, operates, or rebuilds any of the engines subject to this part 1048, or equipment containing these engines. Part 1068 of this chapter describes general provisions, including these seven areas:
(1) Prohibited acts and penalties for engine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, and others.
(2) Rebuilding and other aftermarket changes.
(3) Exclusions and exemptions for certain engines.
(4) Importing engines.
(5) Selective enforcement audits of your production.
(6) Defect reporting and recall.
(7) Procedures for hearings.
(d) Other parts of this chapter apply if referenced in this part.
[70 FR 40465, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59232, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 8426, Feb. 24, 2009; 75 FR 23021, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1048.20
What requirements from this part apply to excluded stationary engines?
(a) You must add a permanent label or tag to each new engine you produce or import that is excluded under § 1048.1(c) as a stationary engine and is not required by 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ, to meet the standards and other requirements of this part 1048 that are equivalent to the requirements applicable to nonroad SI engines for the same model year. To meet labeling requirements, you must do the following things:
(1) Attach the label or tag in one piece so no one can remove it without destroying or defacing it.
(2) Secure it to a part of the engine needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.
(3) Make sure it is durable and readable for the engine's entire life.
(4) Write it in English.
(5) Follow the requirements in § 1048.135(g) regarding duplicate labels if the engine label is obscured in the final installation.
(b) Engine labels or tags required under this section must have the following information:
(1) Include the heading “EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.
(3) State the engine displacement (in liters) and maximum engine power.
(4) State: “THIS ENGINE IS EXCLUDED FROM THE REQUIREMENTS OF 40 CFR PART 1048 AS A “STATIONARY ENGINE” AND THE OWNER/OPERATOR MUST COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF 40 CFR PART 60. INSTALLING OR USING THIS ENGINE IN ANY OTHER APPLICATION MAY BE A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW SUBJECT TO CIVIL PENALTY.”.
(c) Stationary engines required by 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ, to meet the requirements of this part 1048 must meet the labeling requirements of 40 CFR 60.4242.
[70 FR 40466, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 3613, Jan. 18, 2008]
§ 1048.30
Submission of information.
(a) This part includes various requirements to record data or other information. Refer to § 1048.825 and 40 CFR 1068.25 regarding recordkeeping requirements. Unless we specify otherwise, store these records in any format and on any media and keep them readily available for one year after you send an associated application for certification, or one year after you generate the data if they do not support an application for certification. You must promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. We may review them at any time.
(b) The regulations in § 1048.255 and 40 CFR 1068.101 describe your obligation to report truthful and complete information and the consequences of failing to meet this obligation. This includes information not related to certification.
(c) Send all reports and requests for approval to the Designated Compliance Officer (
see
§ 1048.801).
(d) Any written information we require you to send to or receive from another company is deemed to be a required record under this section. Such records are also deemed to be submissions to EPA. We may require you to send us these records whether or not you are a certificate holder.
[75 FR 23021, Apr. 30, 2010]

# Subpart B—Emission Standards and Related Requirements
§ 1048.101
What exhaust emission standards must my engines meet?
The exhaust emission standards of this section apply by model year. You may certify engines earlier than we require. The Tier 1 standards apply only to steady-state testing, as described in paragraph (b) of this section. The Tier 2 standards apply to steady-state, transient, and field testing, as described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
(a)
Emission standards for transient testing.
Starting in the 2007 model year, transient exhaust emissions from your engines may not exceed the Tier 2 emission standards, as follows:
(1) Measure emissions using the applicable transient test procedures described in subpart F of this part.
(2) The Tier 2 HC + NO
X
standard is 2.7 g/kW-hr and the Tier 2 CO standard is 4.4 g/kW-hr. For severe-duty engines, the Tier 2 HC + NO
X
standard is 2.7 g/kW-hr and the Tier 2 CO standard is 130.0 g/kW-hr. The following engines are not subject to the transient standards in this paragraph (a):
(i) High-load engines.
(ii) Engines with maximum engine power above 560 kW.
(iii) Engines with maximum test speed above 3400 rpm.
(iv) Constant-speed engines and severe-duty engines.
(3) You may optionally certify your engines according to the following formula instead of the standards in paragraph (a)(1) of this section: (HC + NO
X
) × CO
0.784
≤8.57. The HC + NO
X
and CO emission levels you select to satisfy this formula, rounded to the nearest 0.1 g/kW-hr, become the emission standards that apply for those engines. You may not select an HC + NO
X
emission standard higher than 2.7 g/kW-hr or a CO emission standard higher than 20.6 g/kW-hr. The following table illustrates a range of possible values under this paragraph (a)(3):
Table 1 of § 1048.101—Examples of Possible Tier 2 Duty-cycle Emission Standards
HC + NO
X
(g/kW-hr)
CO
(g/kW-hr)
2.7
4.4
2.2
5.6
1.7
7.9
1.3
11.1
1.0
15.5
0.8
20.6
(b)
Standards for steady-state testing.
Except as we allow in paragraph (d) of this section, steady-state exhaust emissions from your engines may not exceed emission standards, as follows:
(1) Measure emissions using the applicable steady-state test procedures described in subpart F of this part:
(2) The following table shows the Tier 1 exhaust emission standards that apply to engines from 2004 through 2006 model years:
Table 2 of § 1048.101—Tier 1 Emission Standards (g/kW-hr)
Testing
General emission standards
HC + NO
X
CO
Alternate emission standards for severe-duty engines
HC + NO
X
CO
Certification and production-line testing
4.0
50.0
4.0
130.0
In-use testing
5.4
50.0
5.4
130.0
(3) Starting in the 2007 model year, steady-state exhaust emissions from your engines may not exceed the numerical emission standards in paragraph (a) of this section. See paragraph (d) of this section for alternate standards that apply for certain engines.
(c)
Standards for field testing.
Starting in 2007, exhaust emissions may not exceed field-testing standards, as follows:
(1) Measure emissions using the field-testing procedures in subpart F of this part:
(2) The HC + NO
X
standard is 3.8 g/kW-hr and the CO standard is 6.5 g/kW-hr. For severe-duty engines, the HC + NO
X
standard is 3.8 g/kW-hr and the CO standard is 200.0 g/kW-hr. For natural gas-fueled engines, you are not required to measure nonmethane hydrocarbon emissions or total hydrocarbon emissions for testing to show that the engine meets the emission standards of this paragraph (c); that is, you may assume HC emissions are equal to zero.
(3) You may apply the following formula to determine alternate emission standards that apply to your engines instead of the standards in paragraph (c)(1) of this section: (HC + NO
X
) × CO
0.791
≤16.78. HC + NO
X
emission levels may not exceed 3.8 g/kW-hr and CO emission levels may not exceed 31.0 g/kW-hr. The following table illustrates a range of possible values under this paragraph (c)(2):
Table 3 of § 1048.101—Examples of Possible Tier 2 Field-testing Emission Standards
HC + NO
X
(g/kW-hr)
CO
(g/kW-hr)
3.8
6.5
3.1
8.5
2.4
11.7
1.8
16.8
1.4
23.1
1.1
31.0
(d)
Engine protection.
For engines that require enrichment at high loads to protect the engine, you may ask to meet alternate Tier 2 standards of 2.7 g/kW-hr for HC + NO
X
and 31.0 g/kW-hr for CO instead of the emission standards described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for steady-state testing. If we approve your request, you must still meet the transient testing standards in paragraph (a) of this section and the field-testing standards in paragraph (c) of this section. To qualify for this allowance, you must do all the following things:
(1) Show that enrichment is necessary to protect the engine from damage.
(2) Show that you limit enrichment to operating modes that require additional cooling to protect the engine from damage.
(3) Show in your application for certification that enrichment will rarely occur in use in the equipment in which
your engines are installed. For example, an engine that is expected to operate 5 percent of the time in use with enrichment would clearly not qualify.
(4) Include in your installation instructions any steps necessary for someone installing your engines to prevent enrichment during normal operation (see § 1048.130).
(e)
Fuel types.
The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for engines using each type of fuel specified in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, on which the engines in the engine family are designed to operate, except for engines certified under § 1048.625. For engines certified under § 1048.625, the standards of this section apply to emissions measured using the specified test fuel. You must meet the numerical emission standards for hydrocarbons in this section based on the following types of hydrocarbon emissions for engines powered by the following fuels:
(1) Natural gas-fueled engines: NMHC emissions.
(2) Alcohol-fueled engines: THCE emissions.
(3) Other engines: THC emissions.
(f)
Small engines.
Certain engines with total displacement at or below 1000 cc may comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 90 or 1054 instead of complying with the requirements of this part, as described in § 1048.615.
(g)
Useful life.
Your engines must meet the exhaust emission standards in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section over their full useful life. For severe-duty engines, the minimum useful life is 1,500 hours of operation or seven years, whichever comes first. For all other engines, the minimum useful life is 5,000 hours of operation or seven years, whichever comes first.
(1) Specify a longer useful life in hours for an engine family under either of two conditions:
(i) If you design, advertise, or market your engine to operate longer than the minimum useful life (your recommended hours until rebuild may indicate a longer design life).
(ii) If your basic mechanical warranty is longer than the minimum useful life.
(2) You may request in your application for certification that we approve a shorter useful life for an engine family. We may approve a shorter useful life, in hours of engine operation but not in years, if we determine that these engines will rarely operate longer than the shorter useful life. If engines identical to those in the engine family have already been produced and are in use, your demonstration must include documentation from such in-use engines. In other cases, your demonstration must include an engineering analysis of information equivalent to such in-use data, such as data from research engines or similar engine models that are already in production. Your demonstration must also include any overhaul interval that you recommend, any mechanical warranty that you offer for the engine or its components, and any relevant customer design specifications. Your demonstration may include any other relevant information. The useful life value may not be shorter than any of the following:
(i) 1,000 hours of operation.
(ii) Your recommended overhaul interval.
(iii) Your mechanical warranty for the engine.
(h)
Applicability for testing.
The duty-cycle emission standards in this subpart apply to all testing performed according to the procedures in §§ 1048.505 and 1048.510, including certification, production-line, and in-use testing. The field-testing standards apply for all testing performed according to the procedures of subpart F of this part.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40466, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 3613, Jan. 18, 2008; 73 FR 59232, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.105
What evaporative emission standards and requirements apply?
Starting in the 2007 model year, new engines that run on a volatile liquid fuel (such as gasoline) must meet the emission standards of this section over a useful life of five years, except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. Note that § 1048.245 allows you to use design-based certification instead of generating new emission data.
(a)
Fuel line permeation.
For nonmetallic fuel lines, you must specify and use products that meet the Category 1 specifications for permeation in the November 1996 or November 2004
versions of SAE J2260 (both incorporated by reference in § 1048.810).
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Diurnal emissions.
Evaporative hydrocarbon emissions may not exceed 0.2 grams per gallon of fuel tank capacity when measured using the test procedures specified in § 1048.501. Diurnal emission controls must continue to function during engine operation.
(d)
Running loss.
Liquid fuel in the fuel tank may not reach boiling during continuous engine operation in the final installation at an ambient temperature of 30 °C. Note that gasoline with a Reid vapor pressure of 62 kPa (9 psi) begins to boil at about 53 °C at atmospheric pressure, and at about 60 °C for fuel tanks that hold pressure as described in § 1048.245(e)(1)(i).
(e)
Installation.
If other companies install your engines in their equipment, you may introduce your engines into U.S. commerce without meeting all the requirements in this section. However, you must give equipment manufacturers any appropriate instructions so that fully assembled equipment will meet all the requirements in this section, as described in § 1048.130. Your instructions may specify that equipment manufacturers may alternatively use other fuel-system components that have been certified under 40 CFR part 1060. Introducing equipment into U.S. commerce without meeting all the requirements of this section violates 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).
(f)
Motor vehicles and marine vessels.
Motor vehicles and marine vessels may contain engines subject to the exhaust emission standards in this part 1048. Evaporative emission standards apply to these products as follows:
(1) Marine vessels using spark-ignition engines are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 1045. The vessels are not required to comply with the evaporative emission standards and related requirements of this part 1048.
(2) Motor vehicles are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 86. They are not required to comply with the evaporative emission standards and related requirements of this part 1048.
[73 FR 59232, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 78 FR 36396, June 17, 2013]
§ 1048.110
How must my engines diagnose malfunctions?
The following engine-diagnostic requirements apply for engines equipped with three-way catalysts and closed-loop control of air-fuel ratios:
(a)
Equip your engines with a diagnostic system.
Starting in the 2007 model year, equip each engine with a diagnostic system that will detect significant malfunctions in its emission-control system using one of the following protocols:
(1) If your emission-control strategy depends on maintaining air-fuel ratios at stoichiometry, an acceptable diagnostic design would identify malfunction whenever the air-fuel ratio does not cross stoichiometry for one minute of intended closed-loop operation. You may use other diagnostic strategies if we approve them in advance.
(2) If the protocol described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to your engine, you must use an alternative approach that we approve in advance. Your alternative approach must generally detect when the emission-control system is not functioning properly.
(b)
Use a malfunction-indicator light (MIL).
The MIL must be readily visible to the operator; it may be any color except red. When the MIL goes on, it must display “Check Engine,” “Service Engine Soon,” or a similar message that we approve. You may use sound in addition to the light signal. The MIL must go on under each of the following circumstances:
(1) When a malfunction occurs, as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) When the diagnostic system cannot send signals to meet the requirement of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) When the engine's ignition is in the “key-on” position before starting or cranking. The MIL should go out after engine starting if the system detects no malfunction.
(c)
Control when the MIL can go out.
If the MIL goes on to show a malfunction or system error, it must remain on during all later engine operation until servicing corrects the malfunction. If the engine is not serviced, but the malfunction or system error does not recur for three consecutive engine starts during which the malfunctioning system is
evaluated and found to be working properly, the MIL may stay off during later engine operation.
(d)
Store trouble codes in computer memory.
Record and store in computer memory any diagnostic trouble codes showing a malfunction that should illuminate the MIL. The stored codes must identify the malfunctioning system or component as uniquely as possible. Make these codes available through the data link connector as described in paragraph (g) of this section. You may store codes for conditions that do not turn on the MIL. The system must store a separate code to show when the diagnostic system is disabled.
(e)
Make data, access codes, and devices accessible.
Make all required data accessible to us without any access codes or devices that only you can supply. Ensure that anyone servicing your engine can read and understand the diagnostic trouble codes stored in the onboard computer with generic tools and information.
(f)
Consider exceptions for certain conditions.
Your diagnostic systems may disregard trouble codes for the first three minutes after engine starting. You may ask us to approve diagnostic-system designs that disregard trouble codes under other conditions that would produce an unreliable reading, damage systems or components, or cause other safety risks. This might include operation at altitudes over 8,000 feet.
(g)
Follow standard references for formats, codes, and connections.
Follow conventions defined in 40 CFR 1045.110 or in the following documents (incorporated by reference in § 1048.810) or ask us to approve using updated versions of (or variations from) these documents:
(1) ISO 9141-2 Road vehicles-Diagnostic systems—Part 2: CARB requirements for interchange of digital information, February 1994.
(2) ISO 14230-4 Road vehicles—Diagnostic systems—Keyword Protocol 2000—Part 4: Requirements for emission-related systems, June 2000.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 59232, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.115
What other requirements apply?
Engines that are required to meet the emission standards of this part must meet the following requirements:
(a)
Crankcase emissions.
Crankcase emissions may not be discharged directly into the ambient atmosphere from any engine throughout its useful life, except as follows:
(1) Engines may discharge crankcase emissions to the ambient atmosphere if the emissions are added to the exhaust emissions (either physically or mathematically) during all emission testing. If you take advantage of this exception, you must do the following things:
(i) Manufacture the engines so that all crankcase emissions can be routed into the applicable sampling systems specified in 40 CFR part 1065.
(ii) Account for deterioration in crankcase emissions when determining exhaust deterioration factors.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (a), crankcase emissions that are routed to the exhaust upstream of exhaust aftertreatment during all operation are not considered to be discharged directly into the ambient atmosphere.
(b)
Torque broadcasting.
Electronically controlled engines must broadcast their speed and output shaft torque (in newton-meters). Engines may alternatively broadcast a surrogate value for determining torque. Engines must broadcast engine parameters such that they can be read with a remote device, or broadcast them directly to their controller area networks. This information is necessary for testing engines in the field (see § 1048.515). This requirement applies beginning in the 2007 model year. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit this requirement.
(c)
EPA access to broadcast information.
If we request it, you must provide us any hardware or tools we would need to readily read, interpret, and record all information broadcast by an engine's on-board computers and electronic control modules. If you broadcast a surrogate parameter for torque values, you must provide us what we need to convert these into torque units. We will not ask for hardware or tools if they are readily available commercially.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Adjustable parameters.
Engines that have adjustable parameters must meet all the requirements of this part for any adjustment in the practically adjustable range. We may require that you set adjustable parameters to any specification within the practically adjustable range during any testing, including certification testing, production-line testing, or in-use testing. General provisions for adjustable parameters apply as specified in 40 CFR 1068.50.
(f)
Prohibited controls.
You may not design your engines with emission control devices, systems, or elements of design that cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety while operating. For example, an engine may not emit a noxious or toxic substance it would otherwise not emit that contributes to such an unreasonable risk.
(g)
Defeat devices.
You may not equip your engines with a defeat device. A defeat device is an auxiliary emission-control device that reduces the effectiveness of emission controls under conditions that the engine may reasonably be expected to encounter during normal operation and use. This does not apply to auxiliary-emission control devices you identify in your certification application if any of the following is true:
(1) The conditions of concern were substantially included in the applicable test procedures described in subpart F of this part.
(2) You show your design is necessary to prevent engine (or equipment) damage or accidents.
(3) The reduced effectiveness applies only to starting the engine.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40467, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59233, Oct. 8, 2008; 88 FR 4665, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1048.120
What emission-related warranty requirements apply to me?
(a)
General requirements.
You must warrant to the ultimate purchaser and each subsequent purchaser that the new nonroad engine, including all parts of its emission-control system, meets two conditions:
(1) It is designed, built, and equipped so it conforms at the time of sale to the ultimate purchaser with the requirements of this part.
(2) It is free from defects in materials and workmanship that may keep it from meeting these requirements.
(b)
Warranty period.
Your emission-related warranty for evaporative emission controls must be valid for at least two years. Your emission-related warranty for exhaust emission controls must be valid for at least 50 percent of the engine's useful life in hours of operation or at least three years, whichever comes first. In the case of a high-cost warranted part, the warranty must be valid for at least 70 percent of the engine's useful life in hours of operation or at least five years, whichever comes first. You may offer an emission-related warranty more generous than we require. The emission-related warranty for the engine may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for the engine. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for that component. If an engine has no hour meter, we base the warranty periods in this paragraph (b) only on the engine's age (in years). The warranty period begins when the engine is placed into service.
(c)
Components covered.
The emission-related warranty covers all your components whose failure would increase an engine's emissions of any regulated pollutant, including components listed in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix I, and components from any other system you develop to control emissions. The emission-related warranty covers these components even if another company produces the component for you. Your emission-related warranty does not cover components whose failure would not increase an engine's emissions of any regulated pollutant.
(d)
Limited applicability.
You may deny warranty claims under this section if the operator caused the problem through improper maintenance or use, as described in 40 CFR 1068.115.
(e)
Owners manual.
Describe in the owners manual the emission-related
warranty provisions from this section that apply to the engine.
[70 FR 40467, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59233, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23021, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1048.125
What maintenance instructions must I give to buyers?
Give the ultimate purchaser of each new nonroad engine written instructions for properly maintaining and using the engine, including the emission-control system. The maintenance instructions also apply to service accumulation on your emission-data engines, as described in 40 CFR part 1065.
(a)
Critical emission-related maintenance.
Critical emission-related maintenance includes any adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of critical emission-related components. This may also include additional emission-related maintenance that you determine is critical if we approve it in advance. You may schedule critical emission-related maintenance on these components if you meet the following conditions:
(1) You demonstrate that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals on in-use engines. We will accept scheduled maintenance as reasonably likely to occur if you satisfy any of the following conditions:
(i) You present data showing that, if a lack of maintenance increases emissions, it also unacceptably degrades the engine's performance.
(ii) You present survey data showing that at least 80 percent of engines in the field get the maintenance you specify at the recommended intervals.
(iii) You provide the maintenance free of charge and clearly say so in your maintenance instructions
(iv) You otherwise show us that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals.
(2) You may not schedule critical emission-related maintenance more frequently than the following minimum intervals, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(3), (b) and (c) of this section:
(i) For catalysts, fuel injectors, electronic control units, superchargers, and turbochargers: The useful life of the engine family.
(ii) For gaseous fuel-system components (cleaning without disassembly only) and oxygen sensors: 2,500 hours.
(3) If your engine family has an alternate useful life under § 1048.101(g) that is shorter than the period specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, you may not schedule critical emission-related maintenance more frequently than the alternate useful life, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(4) You may ask us to approve a maintenance interval shorter than that specified in paragraphs (a)(2) of this section. In your request you must describe the proposed maintenance step, recommend the maximum feasible interval for this maintenance, include your rationale with supporting evidence to support the need for the maintenance at the recommended interval, and demonstrate that the maintenance will be done at the recommended interval on in-use engines. In considering your request, we will evaluate the information you provide and any other available information to establish alternate specifications for maintenance intervals, if appropriate.
(b)
Recommended additional maintenance.
You may recommend any additional amount of maintenance on the components listed in paragraph (a) of this section, as long as you state clearly that these maintenance steps are not necessary to keep the emission-related warranty valid. If operators do the maintenance specified in paragraph (a) of this section, but not the recommended additional maintenance, this does not allow you to disqualify those engines from in-use testing or deny a warranty claim. Do not take these maintenance steps during service accumulation on your emission-data engines.
(c)
Special maintenance.
You may specify more frequent maintenance to address problems related to special situations, such as substandard fuel or atypical engine operation. For example, you may specify more frequent cleaning of fuel system components for engines you have reason to believe will be using fuel that causes substantially more engine performance problems than commercial fuels of the same type that are generally available across the
United States. You must clearly state that this additional maintenance is associated with the special situation you are addressing. We may disapprove your maintenance instructions if we determine that you have specified special maintenance steps to address engine operation that is not atypical, or that the maintenance is unlikely to occur in use. If we determine that certain maintenance items do not qualify as special maintenance under this paragraph (c), you may identify this as recommended additional maintenance under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Noncritical emission-related maintenance.
Subject to the provisions of this paragraph (d), you may schedule any amount of emission-related inspection or maintenance that is not covered by paragraph (a) of this section (i.e., maintenance that is neither explicitly identified as critical emission-related maintenance, nor that we approve as critical emission-related maintenance). Noncritical emission-related maintenance generally includes changing spark plugs, re-seating valves, or any other emission-related maintenance on the components we specify in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix I that is not covered in paragraph (a) of this section. You must state in the owners manual that these steps are not necessary to keep the emission-related warranty valid. If operators fail to do this maintenance, this does not allow you to disqualify those engines from in-use testing or deny a warranty claim. Do not take these inspection or maintenance steps during service accumulation on your emission-data engines.
(e)
Maintenance that is not emission-related.
For maintenance unrelated to emission controls, you may schedule any amount of inspection or maintenance. You may also take these inspection or maintenance steps during service accumulation on your emission-data engines, as long as they are reasonable and technologically necessary. This might include adding engine oil, changing air, fuel, or oil filters, servicing engine-cooling systems, and adjusting idle speed, governor, engine bolt torque, valve lash, or injector lash. You may perform this nonemission-related maintenance on emission-data engines at the least frequent intervals that you recommend to the ultimate purchaser (but not the intervals recommended for severe service).
(f)
Source of parts and repairs.
State clearly on the first page of your written maintenance instructions that a repair shop or person of the owner's choosing may maintain, replace, or repair emission-control devices and systems. Your instructions may not require components or service identified by brand, trade, or corporate name. Also, do not directly or indirectly condition your warranty on a requirement that the engine be serviced by your franchised dealers or any other service establishments with which you have a commercial relationship. You may disregard the requirements in this paragraph (f) if you do one of two things:
(1) Provide a component or service without charge under the purchase agreement.
(2) Get us to waive this prohibition in the public's interest by convincing us the engine will work properly only with the identified component or service.
(g)
Payment for scheduled maintenance.
Owners are responsible for properly maintaining their engines. This generally includes paying for scheduled maintenance. However, manufacturers must pay for scheduled maintenance during the useful life if it meets all the following criteria:
(1) Each affected component was not in general use on similar engines before January 1, 2004.
(2) The primary function of each affected component is to reduce emissions.
(3) The cost of the scheduled maintenance is more than 2 percent of the price of the engine.
(4) Failure to perform the maintenance would not cause clear problems that would significantly degrade the engine's performance.
(h)
Owners manual.
Explain the owner's responsibility for proper maintenance in the owners manual.
[70 FR 40468, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59233, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23021, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1048.130
What installation instructions must I give to equipment manufacturers?
(a) If you sell an engine for someone else to install in a piece of nonroad equipment, give the engine installer instructions for installing it consistent with the requirements of this part. Include all information necessary to ensure that an engine will be installed in its certified configuration.
(b) Make sure these instructions have the following information:
(1) Include the heading: “Emission-related installation instructions”.
(2) State: “Failing to follow these instructions when installing a certified engine in a piece of nonroad equipment violates federal law (40 CFR 1068.105(b)), subject to fines or other penalties as described in the Clean Air Act.”.
(3) Describe the instructions needed to properly install the exhaust system and any other components. Include instructions consistent with the requirements of § 1048.205(v).
(4) Describe the steps needed to control evaporative emissions, as described in §§ 1048.105 and 1048.245.
(5) Describe any necessary steps for installing the diagnostic system described in § 1048.110.
(6) Describe any limits on the range of applications needed to ensure that the engine operates consistently with your application for certification. For example, if your engines are certified only for constant-speed operation, tell equipment manufacturers not to install the engines in variable-speed applications. Also, if you need to avoid sustained high-load operation to meet the field-testing emission standards we specify in § 1048.101(c) or to comply with the provisions of § 1048.101(d), describe how the equipment manufacturer must properly size the engines for a given application.
(7) Describe any other instructions to make sure the installed engine will operate according to design specifications in your application for certification. This may include, for example, instructions for installing aftertreatment devices when installing the engines.
(8) State: “If you install the engine in a way that makes the engine's emission control information label hard to read during normal engine maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the equipment, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.”.
(c) You do not need installation instructions for engines you install in your own equipment.
(d) Provide instructions in writing or in an equivalent format. For example, you may post instructions on a publicly available Web site for downloading or printing. If you do not provide the instructions in writing, explain in your application for certification how you will ensure that each installer is informed of the installation requirements.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40469, July 13, 2005]
§ 1048.135
How must I label and identify the engines I produce?
(a) Assign each engine a unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp it on the engine in a legible way.
(b) At the time of manufacture, affix a permanent and legible label identifying each engine. The label must be—
(1) Attached in one piece so it is not removable without being destroyed or defaced.
(2) Secured to a part of the engine needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.
(3) Durable and readable for the engine's entire life.
(4) Written in English.
(c) The label must—
(1) Include the heading “EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the provisions of § 1048.635.
(3) Include EPA's standardized designation for the engine family (and subfamily, where applicable).
(4) State the engine's displacement (in liters); however, you may omit this from the label if all the engines in the engine family have the same per-cylinder displacement and total displacement.
(5) State the date of manufacture [DAY (optional), MONTH, and YEAR]; however, you may omit this from the
label if you stamp, engrave, or otherwise permanently identify it elsewhere on the engine, in which case you must also describe in your application for certification where you will identify the date on the engine.
(6) Identify the emission control system. Use terms and abbreviations as described in 40 CFR 1068.45. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.
(7) State: “THIS ENGINE IS CERTIFIED TO OPERATE ON [specify operating fuel or fuels].”
(8) Identify any requirements for fuel and lubricants. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.
(9) List specifications and adjustments for engine tuneups; show the proper position for the transmission during tuneup and state which accessories should be operating. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.
(10) State the useful life for your engine family if it has a longer useful life under § 1048.101(g)(1) or a shortened useful life under § 1048.101(g)(2).
(11) Identify the emission standards to which you have certified the engine (in g/kW-hr).
(12) Include one of the following compliance statements:
(i) For engines that may be used in nonroad or stationary equipment, state: “THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] NONROAD AND STATIONARY ENGINES.”
(ii) For engines that will be used only in nonroad equipment, state: “THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] NONROAD ENGINES.”
(iii) For engines that will be used only in stationary equipment, state: “THIS ENGINE COMPLIES WITH U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] STATIONARY ENGINES.”
(13) Include any of the following additional statements for special situations if they apply to your engines:
(i) If your engines are certified only for constant-speed operation, state: “USE IN CONSTANT-SPEED APPLICATIONS ONLY.”
(ii) If your engines are certified only for variable-speed operation, state: “USE IN VARIABLE-SPEED APPLICATIONS ONLY.”
(iii) If your engines are certified only for high-load engines, state: “THIS ENGINE IS NOT INTENDED FOR OPERATION AT LESS THAN 75 PERCENT OF FULL LOAD.”
(iv) If you certify your engines under § 1048.101(d), and show in your application for certification that in-use engines will experience infrequent high-load operation, state: “THIS ENGINE IS NOT INTENDED FOR OPERATION AT MORE THAN PERCENT OF FULL LOAD.” Specify the appropriate percentage of full load based on the nature of the engine protection. You may add other statements to discourage operation in engine-protection modes.
(v) If your engines are certified to the voluntary standards in § 1048.140, state: “BLUE SKY SERIES” and identify the standard to which you certify the engines.
(d) You may add information to the emission control information label to identify other emission standards that the engine meets or does not meet (such as California standards). You may also add other information to ensure that the engine will be properly maintained and used.
(e) You may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part 1048 if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this part.
(f) If you obscure the engine label while installing the engine in the equipment such that the label cannot be read during normal maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the equipment. If others install your engine in their equipment in a way that obscures the engine label, we require them to add a duplicate label on the equipment (see 40 CFR 1068.105); in that case, give them the number of duplicate labels they request and keep the following records for at least five years:
(1) Written documentation of the request from the equipment manufacturer.
(2) The number of duplicate labels you send for each engine family and the date you sent them.
[70 FR 40469, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59233, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.140
What are the provisions for certifying Blue Sky Series engines?
This section defines voluntary standards for a recognized level of superior emission control for engines designated as “Blue Sky Series” engines. If you certify an engine family under this section, it is subject to all the requirements of this part as if these voluntary standards were mandatory. To receive a certificate of conformity as “Blue Sky Series,” you must certify to one of the sets of exhaust emission standards in the following table:
Table 1 of § 1048.140—Standards for Blue Sky Series Engines (g/kW-hr)
Standards for steady-state and transient test
procedures
HC + NO
X
CO
Standards for
field-testing procedures
HC + NO
X
CO
0.80
4.4
1.10
6.6
0.60
4.4
0.84
6.6
0.40
4.4
0.56
6.6
0.20
4.4
0.28
6.6
0.10
4.4
0.14
6.6
[73 FR 59234, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.145
Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?
The interim provisions in this section apply instead of other provisions in this part. This section describes when these interim provisions expire.
(a)-(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Small-volume provisions.
If you qualify for the hardship provisions in § 1068.250 of this chapter, we may approve extensions of up to four years total.
[86 FR 34515, June 29, 2021]

# Subpart C—Certifying Engine Families
§ 1048.201
What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity?
(a) You must send us a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each engine family. A certificate of conformity is valid starting with the indicated effective date, but it is not valid for any production after December 31 of the model year for which it is issued. No certificate will be issued after December 31 of the model year.
(b) The application must contain all the information required by this part and must not include false or incomplete statements or information (see § 1048.255).
(c) We may ask you to include less information than we specify in this subpart, as long as you maintain all the information required by § 1048.250.
(d) You must use good engineering judgment for all decisions related to your application (see 40 CFR 1068.5).
(e) An authorized representative of your company must approve and sign the application.
(f) See § 1048.255 for provisions describing how we will process your application.
(g) We may require you to deliver your test engines to a facility we designate for our testing (see § 1048.235(c)).
(h) For engines that become new after being placed into service, such as engines converted to nonroad use after being used in motor vehicles, we may specify alternate certification provisions consistent with the intent of this part.
See
the definition of “new nonroad engine” in § 1048.801.
[70 FR 40470, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59234, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23022, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1048.205
What must I include in my application?
This section specifies the information that must be in your application, unless we ask you to include less information under § 1048.201(c). We may require you to provide additional information to evaluate your application.
(a) Describe the engine family's specifications and other basic parameters
of the engine's design and emission controls. List the fuel types on which your engines are designed to operate (for example, gasoline and natural gas). List each distinguishable engine configuration in the engine family.
(b) Explain how the emission control systems operate. Describe the evaporative emission controls, if applicable. Also describe in detail all system components for controlling exhaust emissions, including all auxiliary emission control devices (AECDs) and all fuel-system components you will install on any production or test engine. Identify the part number of each component you describe. For this paragraph (b), treat as separate AECDs any devices that modulate or activate differently from each other. Include sufficient detail to allow us to evaluate whether the AECDs are consistent with the defeat device prohibition of § 1048.115.
(c) Explain how the engine diagnostic system works, describing especially the engine conditions (with the corresponding diagnostic trouble codes) that cause the malfunction-indicator light to go on. Propose what you consider to be extreme conditions under which the diagnostic system should disregard trouble codes, as described in § 1048.110.
(d) Describe the engines you selected for testing and the reasons for selecting them.
(e) Describe the test equipment and procedures that you used, including any special or alternate test procedures you used (see § 1048.501).
(f) Describe how you operated the emission-data engine before testing, including the duty cycle and the number of engine operating hours used to stabilize emission levels. Explain why you selected the method of service accumulation. Describe any scheduled maintenance you did.
(g) List the specifications of each test fuel to show that it falls within the required ranges we specify in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H.
(h) Identify the engine family's useful life.
(i) Include the maintenance instructions you will give to the ultimate purchaser of each new nonroad engine (see § 1048.125).
(j) Include the emission-related installation instructions you will provide if someone else installs your engines in a piece of nonroad equipment (see § 1048.130).
(k) Identify each high-cost warranted part and show us how you calculated its replacement cost, including the estimated retail cost of the part, labor rates, and labor hours to diagnose and replace defective parts.
(l) Describe your emission control information label (see § 1048.135).
(m) Identify the emission standards to which you are certifying engines in the engine family.
(n) Identify the engine family's deterioration factors and describe how you developed them (see § 1048.240). Present any emission test data you used for this.
(o) State that you operated your emission-data engines as described in the application (including the test procedures, test parameters, and test fuels) to show you meet the requirements of this part.
(p) Present emission data to show that you meet emission standards, as follows:
(1) Present exhaust emission data for HC, NO
X
, and CO on an emission-data engine to show your engines meet the applicable duty-cycle emission standards we specify in § 1048.101. Show emission figures before and after applying deterioration factors for each engine. Include emission results for each mode if you do discrete-mode testing under § 1048.505. Include test data for each type of fuel from 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, on which you intend for engines in the engine family to operate (for example, gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, methanol, or natural gas). If we specify more than one grade of any fuel type (for example, a summer grade and winter grade of gasoline), you need to submit test data only for one grade unless the regulations of this part specify otherwise for your engine. Note that § 1048.235 allows you to submit an application in certain cases without new emission data.
(2) If your engine family includes a volatile liquid fuel (and you do not use design-based certification under § 1048.245), present evaporative test data to show your vehicles meet the
evaporative emission standards we specify in subpart B of this part. Show these figures before and after applying deterioration factors, where applicable.
(q) State that all the engines in the engine family comply with the field-testing emission standards we specify in § 1048.101(c) for all normal operation and use when tested as specified in § 1048.515. Describe any relevant testing, engineering analysis, or other information in sufficient detail to support your statement.
(r) For engines not subject to transient testing requirements in § 148.101(a), include information showing how your emission controls will function during normal in-use transient operation. For example, this might include the following:
(1) Emission data from transient testing of engines using measurement systems designed for measuring in-use emissions.
(2) Comparison of the engine design for controlling transient emissions with that from engines for which you have emission data over the transient duty cycle for certification.
(3) Detailed descriptions of control algorithms and other design parameters for controlling transient emissions.
(s) Report test results as follows:
(1) Report all test results involving measurement of pollutants for which emission standards apply. Include test results from invalid tests or from any other tests, whether or not they were conducted according to the test procedures of subpart F of this part. We may ask you to send other information to confirm that your tests were valid under the requirements of this part and 40 CFR part 1065.
(2) Report measured CO
2
, N
2
O, and CH
4
as described in § 1048.235. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit reporting N
2
O and CH
4
.
(t) Describe all adjustable operating parameters (see § 1048.115(e)), including production tolerances. For any operating parameters that do not qualify as adjustable parameters, include a description supporting your conclusion (see 40 CFR 1068.50(c)). Include the following in your description of each adjustable parameter:
(1) For practically adjustable parameters, include the nominal or recommended setting, the intended practically adjustable range, and the limits or stops used to establish adjustable ranges. State that the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended practically adjustable ranges and provide information to support this statement.
(2) For programmable operating parameters, state that you have restricted access to electronic controls to prevent parameter adjustments on in-use engines that would allow operation outside the practically adjustable range. Describe how your engines are designed to prevent unauthorized adjustments.
(u) Provide the information to read, record, and interpret all the information broadcast by an engine's onboard computers and electronic control units. State that, upon request, you will give us any hardware, software, or tools we would need to do this. If you broadcast a surrogate parameter for torque values, you must provide us what we need to convert these into torque units. You may reference any appropriate publicly released standards that define conventions for these messages and parameters. Format your information consistent with publicly released standards.
(v) Confirm that your emission-related installation instructions specify how to ensure that sampling of exhaust emissions will be possible after engines are installed in equipment and placed in service. If this cannot be done by simply adding a 20-centimeter extension to the exhaust pipe, show how to sample exhaust emissions in a way that prevents diluting the exhaust sample with ambient air.
(w) State whether your certification is intended to include engines used in stationary applications. Also state whether your certification is limited for certain engines. If this is the case, describe how you will prevent use of these engines in applications for which they are not certified. This applies for engines such as the following:
(1) Constant-speed engines.
(2) Variable-speed engines.
(x) Unconditionally certify that all the engines in the engine family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.
(y) Include good-faith estimates of U.S.-directed production volumes. Include a justification for the estimated production volumes if they are substantially different than actual production volumes in earlier years for similar models.
(z) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or part 1068 of this chapter related to requests for exemptions.
(aa) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.
[70 FR 40470, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 3613, Jan. 18, 2008; 73 FR 59234, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 56510, Oct. 30, 2009; 88 FR 4665, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1048.210
May I get preliminary approval before I complete my application?
If you send us information before you finish the application, we will review it and make any appropriate determinations, especially for questions related to engine family definitions, auxiliary emission-control devices, deterioration factors, testing for service accumulation, and maintenance. Decisions made under this section are considered to be preliminary approval, subject to final review and approval. We will generally not reverse a decision where we have given you preliminary approval, unless we find new information supporting a different decision. If you request preliminary approval related to the upcoming model year or the model year after that, we will make best-efforts to make the appropriate determinations as soon as practicable. We will generally not provide preliminary approval related to a future model year more than two years ahead of time.
[70 FR 40472, July 13, 2005]
§ 1048.220
How do I amend the maintenance instructions in my application?
You may amend your emission-related maintenance instructions after you submit your application for certification as long as the amended instructions remain consistent with the provisions of § 1048.125. You must send the Designated Compliance Officer a written request to amend your application for certification for an engine family if you want to change the emission-related maintenance instructions in a way that could affect emissions. In your request, describe the proposed changes to the maintenance instructions. If operators follow the original maintenance instructions rather than the newly specified maintenance, this does not allow you to disqualify those engines from in-use testing or deny a warranty claim.
(a) If you are decreasing or eliminating any specified maintenance, you may distribute the new maintenance instructions to your customers 30 days after we receive your request, unless we disapprove your request. This would generally include replacing one maintenance step with another. We may approve a shorter time or waive this requirement.
(b) If your requested change would not decrease the specified maintenance, you may distribute the new maintenance instructions anytime after you send your request. For example, this paragraph (b) would cover adding instructions to increase the frequency of a maintenance step for engines in severe-duty applications.
(c) You need not request approval if you are making only minor corrections (such as correcting typographical mistakes), clarifying your maintenance instructions, or changing instructions for maintenance unrelated to emission control. We may ask you to send us copies of maintenance instructions revised under this paragraph (c).
[70 FR 40472, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59235, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23022, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1048.225
How do I amend my application for certification to include new or modified engine configurations?
Before we issue you a certificate of conformity, you may amend your application to include new or modified engine configurations, subject to the provisions of this section. After we have issued your certificate of conformity, you may send us an amended application requesting that we include new or modified engine configurations within the scope of the certificate, subject to the provisions of this section. You must amend your application if any changes occur with respect to any information included in your application.
(a) You must amend your application before you take any of the following actions:
(1) Add an engine configuration to an engine family. In this case, the engine configuration added must be consistent with other engine configurations in the engine family with respect to the criteria listed in § 1048.230.
(2) Change an engine configuration already included in an engine family in a way that may affect emissions, or change any of the components you described in your application for certification. This includes production and design changes that may affect emissions any time during the engine's lifetime.
(b) To amend your application for certification, send the Designated Compliance Officer the following information:
(1) Describe in detail the addition or change in the engine model or configuration you intend to make.
(2) Include engineering evaluations or data showing that the amended engine family complies with all applicable requirements. You may do this by showing that the original emission-data engine is still appropriate for showing that the amended family complies with all applicable requirements.
(3) If the original emission-data engine for the engine family is not appropriate to show compliance for the new or modified engine configuration, include new test data showing that the new or modified engine configuration meets the requirements of this part.
(c) We may ask for more test data or engineering evaluations. You must give us these within 30 days after we request them.
(d) For engine families already covered by a certificate of conformity, we will determine whether the existing certificate of conformity covers your newly added or modified engine. You may ask for a hearing if we deny your request (see § 1048.820).
(e) For engine families already covered by a certificate of conformity, you may start producing the new or modified engine configuration anytime after you send us your amended application and before we make a decision under paragraph (d) of this section. However, if we determine that the affected engines do not meet applicable requirements, we will notify you to cease production of the engines and may require you to recall the engines at no expense to the owner. Choosing to produce engines under this paragraph (e) is deemed to be consent to recall all engines that we determine do not meet applicable emission standards or other requirements and to remedy the nonconformity at no expense to the owner. If you do not provide information required under paragraph (c) of this section within 30 days after we request it, you must stop producing the new or modified engines.
[73 FR 59235, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.230
How do I select engine families?
(a) For purposes of certification, divide your product line into families of engines that are expected to have similar emission characteristics throughout the useful life as described in this section. Your engine family is limited to a single model year.
(b) Group engines in the same engine family if they are the same in all of the following aspects:
(1) The combustion cycle.
(2) The cooling system (water-cooled vs. air-cooled).
(3) Configuration of the fuel system (for example, fuel-injected vs. carbureted gasoline engines).
(4) Method of air aspiration.
(5) The number, location, volume, and composition of catalytic converters.
(6) The number, arrangement (such as in-line or vee configuration), and approximate bore diameter of cylinders.
(c) You may subdivide a group of engines that is identical under paragraph (b) of this section into different engine families if you show the expected emission characteristics are different during the useful life.
(d) In unusual circumstances, you may group engines that are not identical with respect to the things listed in paragraph (b) of this section in the same engine family if you show that their emission characteristics during the useful life will be similar.
(e) You may create separate families for exhaust emissions and evaporative emissions. If we do this, list both families on the emission control information label.
(f) Where necessary, you may divide an engine family into sub-families to meet different emission standards, as specified in § 1048.101(a)(2). For issues related to compliance and prohibited actions, we will generally apply decisions to the whole engine family. For engine labels and other administrative provisions, we may approve your request for separate treatment of sub-families.
[70 FR 40473, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59235, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23022, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1048.235
What emission testing must I perform for my application for a certificate of conformity?
This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in §§ 1048.101(a) and (b) and 1048.105 during certification. See § 1048.205(q) regarding emission testing related to the field-testing standards. See § 1048.240 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, regarding service accumulation before emission testing.
(a) Test your emission-data engines using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part.
(b) Select emission-data engines according to the following criteria:
(1)
Exhaust testing.
For each fuel type from each engine family, select an emission-data engine with a configuration that is most likely to exceed the exhaust emission standards, using good engineering judgment. Consider the emission levels of all exhaust constituents over the full useful life of the engine when operated in a piece of equipment.
(2)
Evaporative testing.
For each engine family that includes a volatile liquid fuel, select a test fuel system with a configuration that is most likely to exceed the evaporative emission standards, using good engineering judgment.
(c) We may measure emissions from any of your test engines or other engines from the engine family, as follows:
(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the test engine to a test facility we designate. The test engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.
(2) If we measure emissions on one of your test engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.
(3) Before we test one of your engines, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the physically adjustable ranges (see § 1048.115(e)).
(4) Before we test one of your engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, this would apply where we determine that an engine parameter is not an adjustable parameter (as defined in § 1048.801) but that it is subject to production variability.
(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:
(1) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to
model year or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. You may also ask to add a configuration subject to § 1048.225.
(2) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data engine under paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification.
(e) We may require you to test another engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the engine tested under paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.
(g) Measure CO
2
and CH
4
with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2011 and 2012 model years, respectively. Also measure N
2
O with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2013 model year for any engine family that depends on NOx aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit measurement of N
2
O and CH
4
. These measurements are not required for measurements using field-testing procedures. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for each constituent. Round the final values as follows:
(1) Round CO
2
to the nearest 1 g/kW-hr.
(2) Round N
2
O to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.
(3) Round CH
4
to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.
[70 FR 40473, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59235, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 56510, Oct. 30, 2009]
§ 1048.240
How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?
(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the applicable numerical emission standards in § 1048.101(a) and (b) if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards. This includes all test points over the course of the durability demonstration. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.
See
paragraph (e) of this section for provisions related to demonstrating compliance with field-testing standards.
(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard from § 1048.101(a) and (b). Similarly, your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing any emission level above the applicable field-testing standard for any pollutant. This also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.
(c) To compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable emission standards, apply deterioration factors to the measured emission levels for each pollutant. Specify the deterioration factors based on emission measurements using four significant figures, consistent with good engineering judgment. For example, your deterioration factors must take into account any available data from in-use testing with similar engines (see subpart E of this part). Small-volume engine manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish. In addition, anyone may use assigned deterioration factors for engine families with a projected U.S.-directed production volume at or below 300 engines. Apply deterioration factors as follows:
(1)
Multiplicative deterioration factor.
Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, use a multiplicative deterioration factor for exhaust emissions. A multiplicative deterioration factor is the ratio of exhaust emissions at the end of useful life to exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. Adjust the official emission results for each tested engine at the selected test point by multiplying the measured emissions by the deterioration factor. If the factor is less than one, use one.
(2)
Additive deterioration factor.
Use an additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions if engines do not use aftertreatment technology. Also, you may use an additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions for a particular pollutant if all the emission-data engines in the engine family have low-hour emission levels at or below 0.3 g/kW-hr for HC + NO
X
or 0.5 g/kW-hr for CO, unless a multiplicative deterioration factor is more appropriate. For example, you should use a multiplicative deterioration factor if emission increases are best represented by the ratio of exhaust emissions at the end of the useful life to exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. An additive deterioration factor is the difference between exhaust emissions at the end of useful life and exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. Adjust the official emission results for each tested engine at the selected test point by adding the factor to the measured emissions. If the factor is less than zero, use zero.
(d) Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine. In the case of HC + NO
X
standards, apply the deterioration factor to each pollutant and then add the results before rounding.
(e) Use good engineering judgment to demonstrate compliance with field-testing standards throughout the useful life. You may, but are not required to, apply the same deterioration factors used to show compliance with the applicable duty-cycle standards.
(f) You may alternatively determine and verify deterioration factors based on bench-aged aftertreatment as described in 40 CFR 1036.245 and 1036.246, with the following exceptions:
(1) The minimum required aging for engines as specified in 40 CFR 1036.245(c)(2) is 300 hours. Operate the engine for service accumulation using the same sequence of duty cycles that would apply for determining a deterioration factor under paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Use good engineering judgment to perform verification testing using the procedures of § 1048.515 rather than 40 CFR 1036.555. For PEMS testing, measure emissions as the equipment goes through its normal operation over the course of the day (or shift-day).
[70 FR 40474, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59236, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23022, Apr. 30, 2010; 88 FR 4665, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1048.245
How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with evaporative emission standards?
(a) For certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the evaporative emission standards in subpart B of this part if you do either of the following:
(1) You have test results showing that evaporative emissions in the family are at or below the standards throughout the useful life.
(2) Where applicable, you comply with the design specifications in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) Your engine family does not comply if any fuel system representing that family has test results showing emission levels above the standards.
(c) Use good engineering judgment to develop a test plan to establish deterioration factors to show how much emissions increase at the end of the useful life.
(d) If you adjust the emission levels for deterioration, round them to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each test fuel system.
(e) You may demonstrate that your engine family complies with the evaporative emission standards by demonstrating that you use the following control technologies:
(1) For certification to the standards specified in § 1048.105(c), with the following technologies:
(i) Use a tethered or self-closing gas cap on a fuel tank that stays sealed up to a positive pressure of 24.5 kPa (3.5 psig); however, they may contain air inlets that open when there is a vacuum pressure inside the tank. Nonmetal fuel tanks must also use one of the qualifying designs for controlling permeation emissions specified in 40 CFR 1060.240.
(ii) [Reserved]
(2) For certification to the standards specified in § 1048.105(d), demonstrating that you use design features to prevent fuel boiling under all normal operation. If you install engines in equipment, you may do this using fuel temperature data measured during normal operation. Otherwise, you may do this by including appropriate information in your emission-related installation instructions.
(3) We may establish additional options for design-based certification where we find that new test data demonstrate that a technology will ensure compliance with the emission standards in this section.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40474, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59236, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23022, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1048.250
What records must I keep and make available to EPA?
(a) Send the Designated Compliance Officer information related to your U.S.-directed production volumes as described in § 1048.345. In addition, within 45 days after the end of the model year, you must send us a report describing information about engines you produced during the model year as follows:
(1) State the total production volume for each engine family that is not subject to reporting under § 1048.345.
(2) State the total production volume for any engine family for which you produce engines after completing the reports required in § 1048.345.
(3) For production volumes you report under this paragraph (a), identify whether or not the figures include California sales. Include a separate count of production volumes for California sales if those figures are available.
(b) Organize and maintain the following records:
(1) A copy of all applications and any summary information you send us.
(2) Any of the information we specify in § 1048.205 that you were not required to include in your application.
(3) A detailed history of each emission-data engine. For each engine, describe all of the following:
(i) The emission-data engine's construction, including its origin and buildup, steps you took to ensure that it represents production engines, any components you built specially for it, and all the components you include in your application for certification.
(ii) How you accumulated engine operating hours (service accumulation), including the dates and the number of hours accumulated.
(iii) All maintenance, including modifications, parts changes, and other service, and the dates and reasons for the maintenance.
(iv) All your emission tests, including documentation on routine and standard tests, as specified in part 40 CFR part 1065, and the date and purpose of each test.
(v) All tests to diagnose engine or emission-control performance, giving the date and time of each and the reasons for the test.
(vi) Any other significant events.
(4) Production figures for each engine family divided by assembly plant.
(5) Keep a list of engine identification numbers for all the engines you produce under each certificate of conformity.
(c) Keep data from routine emission tests (such as test cell temperatures and relative humidity readings) for one year after we issue the associated certificate of conformity. Keep all other information specified in this section for eight years after we issue your certificate.
(d) Store these records in any format and on any media, as long as you can promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them.
You must keep these records readily available. We may review them at any time.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40474, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59236, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.255
What decisions may EPA make regarding a certificate of conformity?
(a) If we determine an application is complete and shows that the engine family meets all the requirements of this part and the Act, we will issue a certificate of conformity for the engine family for that model year. We may make the approval subject to additional conditions.
(b) We may deny an application for certification if we determine that an engine family fails to comply with emission standards or other requirements of this part or the Clean Air Act. We will base our decision on all available information. If we deny an application, we will explain why in writing.
(c) In addition, we may deny your application or suspend or revoke a certificate of conformity if you do any of the following:
(1) Refuse to comply with any testing or reporting requirements in this part.
(2) Submit false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting an application that causes submitted information to be false or incomplete.
(3) Cause any test data to become inaccurate.
(4) Deny us from completing authorized activities (see 40 CFR 1068.20). This includes a failure to provide reasonable assistance.
(5) Produce engines for importation into the United States at a location where local law prohibits us from carrying out authorized activities.
(6) Fail to supply requested information or amend an application to include all engines being produced.
(7) Take any action that otherwise circumvents the intent of the Act or this part.
(d) We may void a certificate of conformity if you fail to keep records, send reports, or give us information as required under this part or the Act. Note that these are also violations of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2).
(e) We may void a certificate of conformity if we find that you intentionally submitted false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting an application that causes submitted information to be false or incomplete after submission.
(f) If we deny an application or suspend, revoke, or void a certificate, you may ask for a hearing (see § 1048.820).
[86 FR 34515, June 29, 2021]

# Subpart D—Testing Production-line Engines
§ 1048.301
When must I test my production-line engines?
(a) If you produce engines that are subject to the requirements of this part, you must test them as described in this subpart, except as follows:
(1) [Reserved]
(2) We may exempt engine families with a projected U.S.-directed production volume below 150 units from routine testing under this subpart. Request this exemption in your application for certification and include your basis for projecting a production volume below 150 units. We will approve your request if we agree that you have made good-faith estimates of your production volumes. Your exemption is approved when we grant your certificate. You must promptly notify us if your actual production exceeds 150 units during the model year. If you exceed the production limit or if there is evidence of a nonconformity, we may require you to test production-line engines under this subpart, or under 40 CFR part 1068, subpart E, even if we have approved an exemption under this paragraph (a)(2).
(b) We may suspend or revoke your certificate of conformity for certain engine families if your production-line engines do not meet the requirements of this part or you do not fulfill your obligations under this subpart (see §§ 1048.325 and 1048.340).
(c) Other regulatory provisions authorize us to suspend, revoke, or void your certificate of conformity, or order recalls for engine families, without regard to whether they have passed these production-line testing requirements.
The requirements of this subpart do not affect our ability to do selective enforcement audits, as described in part 1068 of this chapter. Individual engines in families that pass these production-line testing requirements must also conform to all applicable regulations of this part and part 1068 of this chapter.
(d) You may use alternate programs for testing production-line engines in the following circumstances:
(1) You may use analyzers and sampling systems that meet the field-testing requirements of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart J, but not the otherwise applicable requirements in 40 CFR part 1065 for laboratory testing, to demonstrate compliance with duty-cycle emission standards if you double the minimum sampling rate specified in § 1048.310(b). Use measured test results to determine whether engines comply with applicable standards without applying a measurement allowance. This alternate program does not require prior approval but we may disallow use of this option where we determine that use of field-grade equipment would prevent you from being able to demonstrate that your engines are being produced to conform to the specifications in your application for certification.
(2) You may ask to use another alternate program for testing production-line engines. In your request, you must show us that the alternate program gives equal assurance that your products meet the requirements of this part. We may waive some or all of this subpart's requirements if we approve your alternate approach. For example, in certain circumstances you may be able to give us equal assurance that your products meet the requirements of this part by using less rigorous measurement methods if you offset that by increasing the number of test engines.
(e) If you certify an engine family with carryover emission data, as described in § 1048.235(d), and these equivalent engine families consistently pass the production-line testing requirements over the preceding two-year period, you may ask for a reduced testing rate for further production-line testing for that family. The minimum testing rate is one engine per engine family. If we reduce your testing rate, we may limit our approval to any number of model years. In determining whether to approve your request, we may consider the number of engines that have failed the emission tests.
(f) We may ask you to make a reasonable number of production-line engines available for a reasonable time so we can test or inspect them for compliance with the requirements of this part.
[73 FR 59236, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.305
How must I prepare and test my production-line engines?
This section describes how to prepare and test production-line engines. You must assemble the test engine in a way that represents the assembly procedures for other engines in the engine family. You must ask us to approve any deviations from your normal assembly procedures for other production engines in the engine family.
(a)
Test procedures.
Test your production-line engines using either the steady-state or transient testing procedures specified in subpart F of this part to show you meet the duty-cycle emission standards in subpart B of this part. The field-testing standards apply for this testing, but you need not do additional testing to show that production-line engines meet the field-testing standards.
(b)
Modifying a test engine.
Once an engine is selected for testing (see § 1048.310), you may adjust, repair, prepare, or modify it or check its emissions only if one of the following is true:
(1) You document the need for doing so in your procedures for assembling and inspecting all your production engines and make the action routine for all the engines in the engine family.
(2) This subpart otherwise specifically allows your action.
(3) We approve your action in advance.
(c)
Engine malfunction.
If an engine malfunction prevents further emission testing, ask us to approve your decision to either repair the engine or delete it from the test sequence.
(d)
Setting adjustable parameters.
Before any test, we may require you to adjust any adjustable parameter to any
setting within its physically adjustable range.
(1) We may require you to adjust idle speed outside the physically adjustable range as needed, but only until the engine has stabilized emission levels (see paragraph (e) of this section). We may ask you for information needed to establish an alternate minimum idle speed.
(2) We may specify adjustments within the physically adjustable range by considering their effect on emission levels. We may also consider how likely it is that someone will make such an adjustment with in-use equipment.
(e)
Stabilizing emission levels.
Before you test production-line engines, you may operate the engine to stabilize the emission levels. Using good engineering judgment, operate your engines in a way that represents the way production engines will be used. You may operate each engine for no more than the greater of two periods:
(1) 50 hours.
(2) The number of hours you operated your emission-data engine for certifying the engine family (see 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E).
(f)
Damage during shipment.
If shipping an engine to a remote facility for production-line testing makes necessary an adjustment or repair, you must wait until after the initial emission test to do this work. We may waive this requirement if the test would be impossible or unsafe, or if it would permanently damage the engine. Report to us, in your written report under § 1048.345, all adjustments or repairs you make on test engines before each test.
(g)
Retesting after invalid tests.
You may retest an engine if you determine an emission test is invalid under subpart F of this part. Explain in your written report reasons for invalidating any test and the emission results from all tests. If we determine that you improperly invalidated a test, we may require you to ask for our approval for future testing before substituting results of the new tests for invalid ones.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40475, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59237, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.310
How must I select engines for production-line testing?
(a) Use test results from two engines each quarter to calculate the required sample size for the model year for each engine family.
(b) Early in each calendar quarter, randomly select and test two engines from the end of the assembly line for each engine family.
(c) Calculate the required sample size for each engine family. Separately calculate this figure for HC + NO
X
and CO. The required sample size is the greater of these calculated values. Use the following equation:
ER08OC08.091
Where:
N = Required sample size for the model year.
t
95
= 95% confidence coefficient, which depends on the number of tests completed, n, as specified in the table in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. It defines 95% confidence intervals for a one-tail distribution.
σ = Test sample standard deviation (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section).
x = Mean of emission test results of the sample.
STD = Emission standard.
(1) Determine the 95% confidence coefficient, t
95
, from the following table:
n t
95
n t
95
n t
95
2 6.31
12 1.80
22 1.72
3 2.92
13 1.78
23 1.72
4 2.35
14 1.77
24 1.71
5 2.13
15 1.76
25 1.71
6 2.02
16 1.75
26 1.71
7 1.94
17 1.75
27 1.71
8 1.90
18 1.74
28 1.70
9 1.86
19 1.73
29 1.70
10 1.83
20 1.73
30 + 1.70
11 1.81
21 1.72
(2) Calculate the standard deviation, σ, for the test sample using the following formula:
Where:
ER08OC08.092
X
i
= Emission test result for an individual engine.
n = The number of tests completed in an engine family.
(d) Use final deteriorated test results to calculate the variables in the equations in paragraph (c) of this section (see § 1048.315(a)).
(e) After each new test, recalculate the required sample size using the updated mean values, standard deviations, and the appropriate 95-percent confidence coefficient.
(f) Distribute the remaining tests evenly throughout the rest of the year. You may need to adjust your schedule for selecting engines if the required sample size changes. If your scheduled quarterly testing for the remainder of the model year is sufficient to meet the calculated sample size, you may wait until the next quarter to do additional testing. Continue to randomly select engines from each engine family.
(g) Continue testing until one of the following things happens:
(1) After completing the minimum number of tests required in paragraph (b) of this section, the number of tests completed in an engine family, n, is greater than the required sample size, N, and the sample mean, x, is less than or equal to the emission standard. For example, if N = 5.1 after the fifth test, the sample-size calculation does not allow you to stop testing.
(2) The engine family does not comply according to § 1048.315.
(3) You test 30 engines from the engine family.
(4) You test one percent of your projected annual U.S.-directed production volume for the engine family, rounded to the nearest whole number. Do not count an engine under this paragraph (g)(4) if it fails to meet an applicable emission standard. You may stop testing after you test one percent of your production volume even if you have not tested the number of engines specified in paragraph (b) of this section. For example, if projected volume is 475 engines, test two engines in each of the first two quarters and one engine in the third quarter to fulfill your testing requirements under this section for that engine family.
(5) You choose to declare that the engine family does not comply with the requirements of this subpart.
(h) If the sample-size calculation allows you to stop testing for one pollutant but not another, you must continue measuring emission levels of all pollutants for any additional tests required under this section. However, you need not continue making the calculations specified in this subpart for the pollutant for which testing is not required. This paragraph (h) does not affect the number of tests required under this section, the required calculations in § 1048.315, or the remedial steps required under § 1048.320.
(i) You may elect to test more randomly chosen engines than we require under this section. Include these engines in the sample-size calculations.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40475, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59237, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.315
How do I know when my engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
This section describes the pass/fail criteria for the production-line testing requirements. We apply these criteria on an engine-family basis. See § 1048.320 for the requirements that apply to individual engines that fail a production-line test.
(a) Calculate your test results as follows:
(1)
Initial and final test results.
Calculate and round the test results for each engine. If you do several tests on an engine, calculate the initial results for each test, then add all the test results together and divide by the number of tests. Round this final calculated value for the final test results on that engine.
(2)
Final deteriorated test results.
Apply the deterioration factor for the engine family to the final test results (see § 1048.240(c)).
(3)
Round deteriorated test results.
Round the results to the number of decimal places in the emission standard expressed to one more decimal place.
(b) Construct the following CumSum Equation for each engine family for HC + NO
X
and CO emissions:
C
i
= Max [0 or C
i-1
+ X
i
− (STD + 0.25 × σ)]
Where:
C
i
= The current CumSum statistic.
C
i
-1 = The previous CumSum statistic. For the first test, the CumSum statistic is 0 (
i.e.
, C
1
= 0).
X
i
= The current emission test result for an individual engine.
STD = Emission standard.
(c) Use final deteriorated test results to calculate the variables in the equation in paragraph (b) of this section (see § 1048.315(a)).
(d) After each new test, recalculate the CumSum statistic.
(e) If you test more than the required number of engines, include the results from these additional tests in the CumSum Equation.
(f) After each test, compare the current CumSum statistic, C
i
, to the recalculated Action Limit, H, defined as H = 5.0 × σ.
(g) If the CumSum statistic exceeds the Action Limit in two consecutive tests, the engine family fails the production-line testing requirements of this subpart. Tell us within ten working days if this happens.
(h) If you amend the application for certification for an engine family (see § 1048.225), do not change any previous calculations of sample size or CumSum statistics for the model year.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40475, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59238, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.320
What happens if one of my production-line engines fails to meet emission standards?
If you have a production-line engine with final deteriorated test results exceeding one or more emission standards (see § 1048.315(a)), the certificate of conformity is automatically suspended for that failing engine. You must take the following actions before your certificate of conformity can cover that engine:
(a) Correct the problem and retest the engine to show it complies with all emission standards.
(b) Include the test results and describe the remedy for each engine in the written report required under § 1048.345.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 59238, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.325
What happens if an engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
(a) We may suspend your certificate of conformity for an engine family if it fails under § 1048.315. The suspension may apply to all facilities producing engines from an engine family, even if you find noncompliant engines only at one facility.
(b) We will tell you in writing if we suspend your certificate in whole or in part. We will not suspend a certificate until at least 15 days after the engine family fails. The suspension is effective when you receive our notice.
(c) Up to 15 days after we suspend the certificate for an engine family, you may ask for a hearing (see § 1048.820). If we agree before a hearing occurs that we used erroneous information in deciding to suspend the certificate, we will reinstate the certificate.
(d) Section 1048.335 specifies steps you must take to remedy the cause of the engine family's production-line failure. All the engines you have produced since the end of the last test period are presumed noncompliant and should be addressed in your proposed remedy. We may require you to apply the remedy to engines produced earlier if we determine that the cause of the failure is likely to have affected the earlier engines.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40475, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59238, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.330
May I sell engines from an engine family with a suspended certificate of conformity?
You may sell engines that you produce after we suspend the engine family's certificate of conformity under § 1048.315 only if one of the following occurs:
(a) You test each engine you produce and show it complies with emission standards that apply.
(b) We conditionally reinstate the certificate for the engine family. We may do so if you agree to recall all the affected engines and remedy any noncompliance at no expense to the owner if later testing shows that the engine family still does not comply.
§ 1048.335
How do I ask EPA to reinstate my suspended certificate?
(a) Send us a written report asking us to reinstate your suspended certificate. In your report, identify the reason for noncompliance, propose a remedy for the engine family, and commit to a date for carrying it out. In your proposed remedy include any quality control measures you propose to keep the problem from happening again.
(b) Give us data from production-line testing that shows the remedied engine family complies with all the emission standards that apply.
§ 1048.340
When may EPA revoke my certificate under this subpart and how may I sell these engines again?
(a) We may revoke your certificate for an engine family in the following cases:
(1) You do not meet the reporting requirements.
(2) Your engine family fails to comply with the requirements of this subpart and your proposed remedy to address a suspended certificate under § 1048.325 is inadequate to solve the problem or requires you to change the engine's design or emission-control system.
(b) To sell engines from an engine family with a revoked certificate of conformity, you must modify the engine family and then show it complies with the requirements of this part.
(1) If we determine your proposed design change may not control emissions for the engine's full useful life, we will tell you within five working days after receiving your report. In this case we will decide whether production-line testing will be enough for us to evaluate the change or whether you need to do more testing.
(2) Unless we require more testing, you may show compliance by testing production-line engines as described in this subpart.
(3) We will issue a new or updated certificate of conformity when you have met these requirements.
§ 1048.345
What production-line testing records must I send to EPA?
(a) Within 30 calendar days of the end of each calendar quarter, send us a report with the following information:
(1) Describe any facility used to test production-line engines and state its location.
(2) State the total U.S.-directed production volume and number of tests for each engine family.
(3) Describe how you randomly selected engines.
(4) Describe each test engine, including the engine family's identification and the engine's model year, build date, model number, identification number, and number of hours of operation before testing.
(5) Identify how you accumulated hours of operation on the engines and describe the procedure and schedule you used.
(6) Provide the test number; the date, time and duration of testing; test procedure; all initial test results; final test results; and final deteriorated test results for all tests. Provide the emission results for all measured pollutants. Include information for both valid and invalid tests and the reason for any invalidation.
(7) Describe completely and justify any nonroutine adjustment, modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, or test for the test engine if you did not report it separately under this subpart. Include the results of any emission measurements, regardless of the procedure or type of equipment.
(8) Provide the CumSum analysis required in § 1048.315 and the sample-size calculation required in § 1048.310 for each engine family.
(9) Report on each failed engine as described in § 1048.320.
(10) State the date the calendar quarter ended for each engine family.
(b) We may ask you to add information to your written report, so we can determine whether your new engines conform with the requirements of this subpart. We may also ask you to send less information.
(c) An authorized representative of your company must sign the following statement:
We submit this report under Sections 208 and 213 of the Clean Air Act. Our production-line testing conformed completely with the requirements of 40 CFR part 1048. We have not changed production processes or quality-control procedures for test engines in a way that might affect emission controls. All the
information in this report is true and accurate, to the best of my knowledge. I know of the penalties for violating the Clean Air Act and the regulations. (Authorized Company Representative)
(d) Send electronic reports of production-line testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.
(e) We will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them. See § 1048.815 for information on how we treat information you consider confidential.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40476, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59238, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.350
What records must I keep?
(a) Organize and maintain your records as described in this section. We may review your records at any time.
(b) Keep paper or electronic records of your production-line testing for eight years after you complete all the testing required for an engine family in a model year.
(c) Keep a copy of the written reports described in § 1048.345.
(d) Keep the following additional records:
(1) A description of all test equipment for each test cell that you can use to test production-line engines.
(2) The names of supervisors involved in each test.
(3) The name of anyone who authorizes adjusting, repairing, preparing, or modifying a test engine and the names of all supervisors who oversee this work.
(4) If you shipped the engine for testing, the date you shipped it, the associated storage or port facility, and the date the engine arrived at the testing facility.
(5) Any records related to your production-line tests that are not in the written report.
(6) A brief description of any significant events during testing not otherwise described in the written report or in this section.
(7) Any information specified in § 1048.345 that you do not include in your written reports.
(e) If we ask, you must give us projected or actual production figures for an engine family. We may ask you to divide your production figures by maximum engine power, displacement, fuel type, or assembly plant (if you produce engines at more than one plant).
(f) Keep records of the engine identification number for each engine you produce under each certificate of conformity. You may identify these numbers as a range. Give us these records within 30 days if we ask for them.
(g) We may ask you to keep or send other information necessary to implement this subpart.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40476, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59239, Oct. 8, 2008]

# Subpart E—Testing In-use Engines
§ 1048.401
What testing requirements apply to my engines that have gone into service?
(a) If you produce engines that are subject to the requirements of this part, you must test them as described in this subpart. This generally involves testing engines in the field or removing them for measurement in a laboratory.
(b) We may approve an alternate plan for showing that in-use engines comply with the requirements of this part if one of the following is true:
(1) You produce 200 or fewer engines per year in the selected engine family.
(2) Removing the engine from most of the applications for that engine family causes significant, irreparable damage to the equipment.
(3) You identify a unique aspect of your engine applications that keeps you from doing the required in-use testing.
(c) We may void your certificate of conformity for an engine family if you do not meet your obligations under this part.
(d) Independent of your responsibility to test in-use engines, we may choose at any time to do our own testing of your in-use engines.
(e) If in-use testing shows that engines fail to meet emission standards or other requirements of this part, we may pursue a recall or other remedy as allowed by the Act (see § 1048.415).
§ 1048.405
How does this program work?
(a) You must test in-use engines, for exhaust emissions, from the families we select. We may select up to 25 percent of your engine families in any model year—or one engine family if you have three or fewer families. We will select engine families for testing before the end of the model year. When we select an engine family for testing, we may specify that you preferentially test engines based on fuel type or equipment type. In addition, we may identify specific modes of operation or sampling times. You may choose to test additional engine families that we do not select.
(b) Send us an in-use testing plan within six months after we direct you to test a particular engine family. If we request additional information or require you to modify your plan to meet the requirements of this subpart, you must provide the information or the modified plan within 30 days of our request. Complete the testing within 36 months after we direct you to test a particular engine family.
(c) You may need to test engines from more than one model year at a given time.
(d) In appropriate extreme and unusual circumstances that are clearly outside your control and could not have been avoided by the exercise of prudence, diligence, and due care, we may allow more time to complete testing or we may waive the in-use testing requirement for an engine family. For example, if your test fleet is destroyed by severe weather during service accumulation and we agree that completion of testing is not possible, we would generally waive testing requirements for that engine family.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 59239, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23022, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1048.410
How must I select, prepare, and test my in-use engines?
(a) You may make arrangements to select representative test engines from your own fleet or from other independent sources.
(b) For the selected engine families, select engines that you or your customers have—
(1) Operated for at least 50 percent of the engine family's useful life (see § 1048.101(d));
(2) Not maintained or used in an abnormal way; and
(3) Documented in terms of total hours of operation, maintenance, operating conditions, and storage.
(c) Use the following methods to determine the number of engines you must test in each engine family:
(1) Test at least two engines if you produce 2,000 or fewer engines in the model year from all engine families, or if you produce 500 or fewer engines from the selected engine family. Otherwise, test at least four engines.
(2) If you successfully complete an in-use test program on an engine family and later certify an equivalent engine family with carryover emission data, as described in § 1048.235(c), then test at least one engine instead of the testing rates in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) If you test the minimum required number of engines and all comply fully with emission standards, you may stop testing.
(4) For each engine that fails any applicable standard, test two more. Regardless of measured emission levels, you do not have to test more than ten engines in an engine family. You may do more tests than we require.
(5) You may concede that the engine family does not comply before testing a total of ten engines.
(d) You may do minimal maintenance to set components of a test engine to specifications for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter (see § 1048.205(p)). Limit maintenance to what is in the owner's instructions for engines with that amount of service and age. Document all maintenance and adjustments.
(e) You may do repeat measurements with a test engine; however, you must conduct the same number of tests on each engine.
(f) For a test program on an engine family, choose one of the following methods to test your engines:
(1) Remove the selected engines for testing in a laboratory. Use the applicable steady-state and transient procedures in subpart F of this part to show
compliance with the duty-cycle standards in § 1048.101(a) and (b). We may direct you to measure emissions on the dynamometer using the supplemental test procedures in § 1048.515 to show compliance with the field-testing standards in § 1048.101(c).
(2) Test the selected engines while they remain installed in the equipment. Use the field testing procedures in subpart F of this part. Measure emissions during normal operation of the equipment to show compliance with the field-testing standards in § 1048.101(c). We may direct you to include specific areas of normal operation.
(g) You may ask us to waive parts of the prescribed test procedures if they are not necessary to determine in-use compliance.
(h) Calculate the average emission levels for an engine family from the results for the set of tested engines. Round them to the number of decimal places in the emission standards expressed to one more decimal place.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 59239, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.415
What happens if in-use engines do not meet requirements?
(a) Determine the reason each in-use engine exceeds the emission standards.
(b) If the average emission levels calculated in § 1048.410(h) exceed any of the emission standards that apply, notify us within fifteen days of completing testing on this family. Otherwise follow the reporting instructions in § 1048.420.
(c) We will consider failure rates, average emission levels, and any defects—among other things—to decide on taking remedial action under this subpart (see 40 CFR 1068.505). We may consider the results from any voluntary additional testing you perform. We may also consider information related to testing from other engine families showing that you designed them to exceed the minimum requirements for controlling emissions. We may order a recall before or after you complete testing of an engine family if we determine a substantial number of engines do not conform to section 213 of the Act or to this part. The scope of the recall may include other engine families in the same or different model years if the cause of the problem identified in paragraph (a) of this section applies more broadly than the tested engine family, as allowed by the Act.
(d) If in-use testing reveals a design or manufacturing defect that prevents engines from meeting the requirements of this part, you must correct the defect as soon as possible for any future production for engines in every family affected by the defect. See 40 CFR 1068.501 for additional requirements related to defect reporting.
(e) You may voluntarily recall an engine family for emission failures, as described in 40 CFR 1068.535, unless we have ordered a recall for that family under 40 CFR 1068.505.
(f) You have the right to a hearing before we order you to recall your engines or implement an alternative remedy (see § 1048.820).
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 59239, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.420
What in-use testing information must I report to EPA?
(a) In a report to us within three months after you finish testing an engine family, do all the following:
(1) Identify the engine family, model, serial number, and date of manufacture.
(2) For each engine inspected or considered for testing, identify whether the diagnostic system was functioning.
(3) Describe the specific reasons for disqualifying any engines for not being properly maintained or used.
(4) For each engine selected for testing, include the following information:
(i) Estimate the hours each engine was used before testing.
(ii) Describe all maintenance, adjustments, modifications, and repairs to each test engine.
(5) State the date and time of each test attempt.
(6) Include the results of all emission testing, including incomplete or invalidated tests, if any.
(b) Send electronic reports of in-use testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.
(c) We will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them. See § 1048.815 for information on how we treat information you consider confidential.
(d) We may ask for more information.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40476, July 13, 2005]
§ 1048.425
What records must I keep?
(a) Organize and maintain your records as described in this section. We may review your records at any time.
(b) Keep paper records of your in-use testing for one full year after you complete all the testing required for an engine family in a model year. You may use any additional storage formats or media if you like.
(c) Keep a copy of the written reports described in § 1048.420.
(d) Keep any additional records related to the procurement process.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40476, July 13, 2005]

# Subpart F—Test Procedures
§ 1048.501
How do I run a valid emission test?
(a) Use the equipment and procedures for spark-ignition engines in 40 CFR part 1065 to determine whether engines meet the duty-cycle emission standards in § 1048.101(a) and (b). Measure the emissions of all the pollutants we regulate in § 1048.101 using the sampling procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065. Measure CO
2
, N
2
O, and CH
4
as described in § 1048.235. Use the applicable duty cycles specified in §§ 1048.505 and 1048.510.
(b) Section 1048.515 describes the supplemental procedures for evaluating whether engines meet the field-testing emission standards in § 1048.101(c).
(c) Use the fuels and lubricants specified in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, to perform valid tests for all the testing we require in this part, except as noted in § 1048.515.
(1) Use gasoline meeting the specifications described in 40 CFR 1065.710(c) for general testing. For service accumulation, use the test fuel or any commercially available fuel that is representative of the fuel that in-use engines will use.
(2) You may alternatively use ethanol-blended fuel meeting the specifications described in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) for general testing without our advance approval. If you use the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family, you may also use it for production-line testing or any other testing you perform for that engine family under this part. If you use the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family, we may use the ethanol-blended fuel or the specified neat gasoline test fuel with that engine family.
(d) In place of the provisions of 40 CFR 1065.405, you may consider emission levels stable without measurement after 50 hours of engine operation.
(e) To test engines for evaporative emissions, use the equipment and procedures specified for testing diurnal emissions as described in 40 CFR 1060.525, subject to the following provisions:
(1) Precondition nonmetal fuel tanks as specified in 40 CFR 1060.520(a) and (b).
(2) For engines equipped with carbon canisters that store fuel vapors that will be purged for combustion in the engine, precondition the canister as specified in 40 CFR 86.132-96(h) and then operate the engine for 60 minutes over repeat runs of the duty cycle specified in appendix II of this part.
(3) Start the diurnal emission test after the engine is stabilized at room temperatures, but within 36 hours after the engine operation specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
(4) You may not separately measure permeation emissions from nonmetal fuel tanks for subtracting from the diurnal emission measurement.
(5) Note that you may omit testing for evaporative emissions during certification if you certify by design, as specified in § 1048.245.
(f) You may use special or alternate procedures to the extent we allow them under 40 CFR 1065.10.
(g) This subpart is addressed to you as a manufacturer, but it applies equally to anyone who does testing for you, and to us when we perform testing to
determine if your engines meet emission standards.
[70 FR 40476, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59239, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 56510, Oct. 30, 2009; 86 FR 34515, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4665, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1048.505
How do I test engines using steady-state duty cycles, including ramped-modal testing?
This section describes how to test engines under steady-state conditions. In some cases, we allow you to choose the appropriate steady-state duty cycle for an engine; you may also choose between discrete-mode and ramped-modal testing. In all cases, you must use the duty cycle you select in your application for certification for all testing you perform for that engine family. If we test your engines to confirm that they meet emission standards, we will use the duty cycles you select for your own testing. If you submit certification test data using more than one duty cycle, any of the selected duty cycles may be used for any subsequent testing. We may also perform other testing as allowed by the Clean Air Act.
(a) You may perform steady-state testing with either discrete-mode or ramped-modal cycles described in 40 CFR Part 1065.
(b) Measure emissions by testing the engine on a dynamometer with one or more of the following sets of duty cycles to determine whether it meets the steady-state emission standards in § 1048.101(b):
(1) For engines from an engine family that will be used only in variable-speed applications, use one of the following duty cycles:
(i) The following duty cycle applies for discrete-mode testing:
Table 1 of § 1048.505
C2 mode No.
Engine speed
1
Torque
(percent)
2
Weighting
factors
1
Maximum test speed
25
0.06
2
Intermediate test
100
0.02
3
Intermediate test
75
0.05
4
Intermediate test
50
0.32
5
Intermediate test
25
0.30
6
Intermediate test
10
0.10
7
Warm idle
0
0.15
1
Speed terms are defined in 40 CFR part 1065.
2
The percent torque is relative to the maximum torque at the given engine speed.
(ii) The following duty cycle applies for ramped-modal testing:
Table 2 of § 1048.505
RMC mode
Time in mode
(seconds)
Engine speed
1 2
Torque
(percent)
2 3
1a Steady-state
119
Warm idle
0
1b Transition
20
Linear transition
Linear transition.
2a Steady-state
29
Intermediate speed
100
2b Transition
20
Intermediate speed
Linear transition.
3a Steady-state
150
Intermediate speed
10
3b Transition
20
Intermediate speed
Linear transition.
4a Steady-state
80
Intermediate speed
75
4b Transition
20
Intermediate speed
Linear transition.
5a Steady-state
513
Intermediate speed
25
5b Transition
20
Intermediate speed
Linear transition.
6a Steady-state
549
Intermediate speed
50
6b Transition
20
Linear transition
Linear transition.
7a Steady-state
96
Maximum test speed
25
7b Transition
20
Linear transition
Linear transition.
8 Steady-state
124
Warm idle
0
1
Speed terms are defined in 40 CFR part 1065.
2
Advance from one mode to the next within a 20-second transition phase. During the transition phase, command a linear progression from the torque setting of the current mode to the torque setting of the next mode.
3
The percent torque is relative to maximum torque at the commanded engine speed.
(2) For engines from an engine family that will be used only at a single, rated speed, use the 5-mode duty cycle or the corresponding ramped-modal cycle described in 40 CFR part 1039, Appendix II, paragraph (a).
(3) Use a duty cycle from both paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section if you will not restrict an engine family to constant-speed or variable-speed applications.
(4) Use a duty cycle specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for all severe-duty engines.
(5) For high-load engines, use one of the following duty cycles:
(i) The following duty cycle applies for discrete-mode testing:
Table 3 of § 1048.505
Mode No.
Engine
speed
Torque
(percent)
1
Minimum time in mode (minutes)
Weighting factors
1
Maximum test speed
100
3.0
0.50
2
Maximum test speed
75
3.0
0.50
1
The percent torque is relative to the maximum torque at maximum test speed.
(ii) The following duty cycle applies for discrete-mode testing:
Table 4 of § 1048.505
RMC modes
Time in mode
(seconds)
Engine speed
(percent)
Torque
(percent)
1 2
1a Steady-state
290
Engine governed
100
1b Transition
20
Engine governed
Linear transition.
2 Steady-state
290
Engine governed
75
1
The percent torque is relative to maximum test torque.
2
Advance from one mode to the next within a 20-second transition phase. During the transition phase, command a linear progression from the torque setting of the current mode to the torque setting of the next mode.
(c) For full-load operating modes, operate the engine at wide-open throttle.
[73 FR 59239, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23022, Apr. 30, 2010;79 FR 23751. Apr. 28, 2014]
§ 1048.510
What transient duty cycles apply for laboratory testing?
(a) Starting with the 2007 model year, measure emissions by testing the engine on a dynamometer with the duty cycle described in Appendix II to determine whether it meets the transient emission standards in § 1048.101(a).
(b) Calculate cycle statistics and compare with the established criteria as specified in 40 CFR 1065.514 to confirm that the test is valid.
(c) Warm up the test engine as follows before running a transient test:
(1) Operate the engine for the first 180 seconds of the appropriate duty cycle, then allow it to idle without load for 30 seconds. At the end of the 30-second idling period, start measuring emissions as the engine operates over the prescribed duty cycle. For severe-duty engines, this engine warm-up procedure may include up to 15 minutes of operation over the appropriate duty cycle.
(2) If the engine was already operating before a test, use good engineering judgment to let the engine cool down enough so measured emissions during the next test will accurately represent those from an engine starting at room temperature. For example, if an engine starting at room temperature warms up enough in three minutes to start closed-loop operation and achieve full catalyst activity, then minimal engine cooling is necessary before starting the next test.
(3) You are not required to measure emissions while the engine is warming up. However, you must design your emission-control system to start working as soon as possible after engine starting. In your application for certification, describe how your engine meets this objective (see § 1048.205(b)).
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40478, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59241, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23023, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1048.515
What are the field-testing procedures?
(a) This section describes the procedures to determine whether your engines meet the field-testing emission standards in § 1048.101(c). These procedures may include any normal engine operation and ambient conditions that the engines may experience in use. Paragraph (b) of this section defines the limits of what we will consider normal engine operation and ambient conditions. Use the test procedures we specify in § 1048.501, except for the provisions we specify in this section. Measure emissions with one of the following procedures:
(1) Remove the selected engines for testing in a laboratory. You may use an engine dynamometer to simulate normal operation, as described in this section.
(2) Test the selected engines while they remain installed in the equipment. In 40 CFR part 1065, subpart J, we describe the equipment and sampling methods for testing engines in the field. Use fuel meeting the specifications of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, or a fuel typical of what you would expect the engine to use in service.
(b) An engine's emissions may not exceed the levels we specify in § 1048.101(c) for any continuous sampling period of at least 120 seconds under the following ranges of operation and operating conditions:
(1) Engine operation during the emission sampling period may include any normal operation, subject to the following restrictions:
(i) Average power must be at least 5 percent of maximum brake power.
(ii) Continuous time at idle must not be greater than 120 seconds.
(iii) The sampling period may not begin until the engine has reached stable operating temperatures. For example, this would exclude engine operation after starting until the thermostat starts modulating coolant temperature.
(iv) The sampling period may not include engine starting.
(v) For engines that qualify for the alternate Tier 2 emission standards in § 1048.101(d), operation at 90 percent or more of maximum power must be less than 10 percent of the total sampling time. You may request our approval for a different power threshold.
(2) Engine testing may occur under any normal conditions without correcting measured emission levels, subject to the following restrictions:
(i) Barometric pressure must be between 80.0 and 103.3 kPa (600 and 775 mm Hg).
(ii) Ambient air temperature must be between 13° and 35 °C.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40478, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59241, Oct. 8, 2008]

# Subpart G—Compliance Provisions
§ 1048.601
What compliance provisions apply to these engines?
(a) Engine and equipment manufacturers, as well as owners, operators, and rebuilders of engines subject to the requirements of this part, and all other persons, must observe the provisions of this part, the requirements and prohibitions in 40 CFR part 1068, and the provisions of the Act.
(b) This paragraph (b) describes how the replacement-engine provisions of 40 CFR 1068.240 apply for engines subject to the requirements of this part in conjunction with the secondary engine manufacturer provisions in 40 CFR 1068.262. For cases in which the secondary engine manufacturer completes assembly of the engine, these provisions apply as written. If the secondary engine manufacturer arranges for a third party to complete engine assembly, the following additional provisions apply:
(1) The ultimate purchaser must purchase (or otherwise order) the replacement engine from the secondary engine manufacturer. The secondary engine manufacturer must provide assembly instructions to the engine assembler (unless the engine being replaced was not subject to emission standards). The secondary engine manufacturer may arrange for the original engine manufacturer to ship the engine directly to the engine assembler. However, if the secondary engine manufacturer does not take possession of the engine, it must supply the engine label specified in 40 CFR 1068.240 to the engine assembler and the engine assembler must
apply the label before shipping the engine.
(2) The secondary engine manufacturer and engine assembler are both responsible if the engine is installed in new equipment or otherwise violates the circumvention provisions of 40 CFR 1068.240.
(3) Consider the following example. A secondary engine manufacturer receiving a valid request for a replacement engine for which it does not already have an engine available in inventory may order a partially complete engine from an original engine manufacturer and have it shipped directly to an independent engine assembler. In this case, the secondary engine manufacturer must state in its order that the partially complete engine should be labeled as being exempt under 40 CFR 1068.240 and identify the engine assembler's address; the secondary engine manufacture must also provide instructions to the engine assembler. The original engine manufacturer would label the engine as described in 40 CFR 1068.262, identifying the replacement-engine exemption as the basis for shipping an uncertified engine, and ship the engine directly to the assembler. The engine assembler would complete the assembly by applying the label and otherwise following the instructions provided by the secondary engine manufacturer.
[73 FR 59241, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.605
What provisions apply to engines certified under the motor vehicle program?
(a)
General provisions.
If you are an engine manufacturer, this section allows you to introduce new nonroad engines into commerce if they are already certified to the requirements that apply to engines under 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 for the appropriate model year. If you comply with all the provisions of this section, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1048 for its model year, without a separate application for certification under the requirements of this part 1048. See § 1048.610 for similar provisions that apply to engines certified to chassis-based standards for motor vehicles.
(b)
Equipment-manufacturer provisions.
If you are not an engine manufacturer, you may produce nonroad equipment using motor-vehicle engines under this section as long as you meet all the requirements and conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. If you modify the motor-vehicle engine in any of the ways described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, we will consider you a manufacturer of a new nonroad engine. Such engine modifications prevent you from using the provisions of this section.
(c)
Liability.
Engines for which you meet the requirements of this section are exempt from all the requirements and prohibitions of this part, except for those specified in this section. Engines exempted under this section must meet all the applicable requirements from 40 CFR parts 85 and 86. This applies to engine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers who use these engines, and all other persons as if these engines were used in a motor vehicle. The prohibited acts of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) apply to these new engines and equipment; however, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1048 for its model year. If we make a determination that these engines do not conform to the regulations during their useful life, we may require you to recall them under 40 CFR part 86 or 40 CFR 1068.505.
(d)
Specific requirements.
If you are an engine manufacturer or equipment manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new nonroad engine, the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:
(1) Your engine must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity issued under 40 CFR part 86.
(2) You must not make any changes to the certified engine that could reasonably be expected to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions. For example, if you make any of the following changes to one of these engines, you do not qualify for this exemption:
(i) Change any fuel system or evaporative system parameters from the certified configuration (this does not apply to refueling controls).
(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the engine manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.
(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original engine manufacturer's specified ranges.
(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in nonroad applications. This includes engines used in any application without regard to which company manufactures the vehicle or equipment. Show this as follows:
(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.
(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm this based on its sales information.
(4) You must ensure that the engine has the label we require under 40 CFR part 86.
(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the engine in a position where it will remain clearly visible after installation in the equipment. In the supplemental label, do the following:
(i) Include the heading: “NONROAD ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.
(iii) State: “THIS ENGINE WAS ADAPTED FOR NONROAD USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS. THE EMISSION-CONTROL SYSTEM DEPENDS ON THE USE OF FUEL MEETING SPECIFICATIONS THAT APPLY FOR MOTOR-VEHICLE APPLICATIONS. OPERATING THE ENGINE ON OTHER FUELS MAY BE A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW.”.
(iv) State the date you finished modifying the engine (month and year), if applicable.
(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible after the engine is installed in the equipment or, if the equipment obscures the engine's emission control information label, the equipment manufacturer must attach duplicate labels, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.
(7) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:
(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.
(ii) List the engine or equipment models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(iii) State: “We produce each listed [engine or equipment] model for nonroad application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1048.605.”.
(e)
Failure to comply.
If your engines do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d) of this section, they will be subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions of this part 1048 and the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 will not be deemed to also be a certificate issued under this part 1048. Introducing these engines into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity under this part violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).
(f)
Data submission.
We may require you to send us emission test data on any applicable nonroad duty cycles.
(g)
Participation in averaging, banking and trading.
Engines adapted for nonroad use under this section may generate credits under the ABT provisions in 40 CFR part 86. These engines must use emission credits under 40 CFR part 86 if they are certified to an FEL that exceeds an applicable standard under 40 CFR part 86.
[70 FR 40479, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59241, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.610
What provisions apply to vehicles certified under the motor vehicle program?
(a)
General provisions.
If you are a motor-vehicle manufacturer, this section allows you to introduce new nonroad engines or equipment into commerce if the vehicle is already certified to the requirements that apply under 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 for the appropriate model year. If you comply with all of the provisions of this section, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 for each motor vehicle to also be a valid certificate of conformity for the engine under this part 1048 for its model year, without a separate application for certification under the requirements of this part 1048. See § 1048.605 or similar provisions that apply to motor-vehicle engines produced for nonroad equipment. The provisions of this section do not apply to engines certified to meet the requirements for highway motorcycles.
(b)
Equipment-manufacturer provisions.
If you are not a motor-vehicle manufacturer, you may produce nonroad equipment from motor vehicles under this section as long as you meet all the requirements and conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. If you modify the motor vehicle or its engine in any of the ways described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, we will consider you a manufacturer of a new nonroad engine. Such modifications prevent you from using the provisions of this section.
(c)
Liability.
Engines, vehicles, and equipment for which you meet the requirements of this section are exempt from all the requirements and prohibitions of this part, except for those specified in this section. Engines exempted under this section must meet all the applicable requirements from 40 CFR parts 85 and 86. This applies to engine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, and all other persons as if the nonroad equipment were motor vehicles. The prohibited acts of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) apply to these new pieces of equipment; however, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 for each motor vehicle to also be a valid certificate of conformity for the engine under this part 1048 for its model year. If we make a determination that these engines, vehicles, or equipment do not conform to the regulations during their useful life, we may require you to recall them under 40 CFR part 86 or 40 CFR 1068.505.
(d)
Specific requirements.
If you are a motor-vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new nonroad equipment and its engine, the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:
(1) Your equipment must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity as a motor vehicle issued under 40 CFR part 86.
(2) You must not make any changes to the certified vehicle that we could reasonably expect to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions if it is subject to evaporative-emission standards. For example, if you make any of the following changes, you do not qualify for this exemption:
(i) Change any fuel system or evaporative system parameters from the certified configuration, including refueling emission controls.
(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the vehicle manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.
(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original vehicle manufacturer's specified ranges.
(iv) Add more than 500 pounds to the curb weight of the originally certified motor vehicle.
(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in nonroad applications. This includes any type of vehicle, without regard to which company completes the manufacturing of the nonroad equipment. Show this as follows:
(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the vehicle, base this showing on your sales information.
(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the vehicle to confirm this based on their sales information.
(4) The equipment must have the vehicle emission control information and fuel labels we require under 40 CFR 86.007-35.
(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the equipment in a position where it will remain clearly visible. In the supplemental label, do the following:
(i) Include the heading: “NONROAD ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.
(iii) State: “THIS VEHICLE WAS ADAPTED FOR NONROAD USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS. THE EMISSION-CONTROL SYSTEM DEPENDS ON THE USE OF FUEL MEETING SPECIFICATIONS THAT APPLY FOR MOTOR-VEHICLE APPLICATIONS. OPERATING THE ENGINE ON OTHER FUELS MAY BE A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW.”.
(iv) State the date you finished modifying the vehicle (month and year), if applicable.
(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible in the fully assembled equipment.
(7) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:
(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.
(ii) List the equipment models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(ii) List the equipment models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year.
(iii) State: “We produced each listed engine or equipment model for nonroad application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1048.610.”.
(e)
Failure to comply.
If your engines, vehicles, or equipment do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the engines will be subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions of this part 1048, and the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 will not be deemed to also be a certificate issued under this part 1048. Introducing these engines into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity under this part violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).
(f)
Data submission.
We may require you to send us emission test data on any applicable nonroad duty cycles.
(g)
Participation in averaging, banking and trading.
Vehicles adapted for nonroad use under this section may generate credits under the ABT provisions in 40 CFR part 86. These vehicles must be included in the calculation of the applicable fleet average in 40 CFR part 86.
[70 FR 40480, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59241, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.612
What is the exemption for delegated final assembly?
The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.261 related to delegated final assembly apply for engines certified under this part 1048, with the following exceptions and clarifications:
(a) The provisions related to reduced auditing rates in 40 CFR 1068.261(d)(3)(iii) apply starting with the 2014 model year.
(b) [Reserved]
[73 FR 59242, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.615
What are the provisions for exempting engines designed for lawn and garden applications?
This section is intended for engines designed for lawn and garden applications, but it applies to any engines meeting the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section.
(a) If an engine meets all the following criteria, it is exempt from the requirements of this part:
(1) The engine must have a nominal displacement of 1000 cc or less.
(2) The engine must have a maximum engine power at or below 30 kW.
(3) The engine must be in an engine family that has a valid certificate of conformity showing that it meets emission standards for Class II engines under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054 for the appropriate model year.
(b) The only requirements or prohibitions from this part that apply to an
engine that meets the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section are in this section.
(c) If your engines do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (a) of this section, they will be subject to the provisions of this part. Introducing these engines into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101.
(d) Engines exempted under this section are subject to all the requirements affecting engines under 40 CFR part 90 or 1054. The requirements and restrictions of 40 CFR part 90 or 1054 apply to anyone manufacturing these engines, anyone manufacturing equipment that uses these engines, and all other persons in the same manner as if these engines had a total maximum engine power at or below 19 kW.
[73 FR 59242, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.620
What are the provisions for exempting large engines fueled by natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas?
(a) If an engine meets all the following criteria, it is exempt from the requirements of this part:
(1) The engine must operate solely on natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas.
(2) The engine must have maximum engine power at or above 250 kW.
(3) The engine must be in an engine family that has a valid certificate of conformity showing that it meets emission standards for engines of that power rating under 40 CFR part 1039.
(b) The only requirements or prohibitions from this part that apply to an engine that is exempt under this section are in this section.
(c) If your engines do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (a) of this section, they will be subject to the provisions of this part. Introducing these engines into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101.
(d) Engines exempted under this section are subject to all the requirements affecting engines under 40 CFR part 1039. The requirements and restrictions of 40 CFR part 1039 apply to anyone manufacturing engines exempted under this section, anyone manufacturing equipment that uses these engines, and all other persons in the same manner as if these were nonroad diesel engines.
(e) You may request an exemption under this section by submitting an application for certification for the engines under 40 CFR part 1039.
[70 FR 40481, July 13, 2005, as amended at 88 FR 4665, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1048.625
What special provisions apply to engines using noncommercial fuels?
In § 1048.115(e), we generally require that engines meet emission standards for any adjustment within the full range of any adjustable parameters. For engines that use noncommercial fuels significantly different than the specified test fuel of the same type, you may ask to use the parameter-adjustment provisions of this section instead of those in § 1048.115(e). Engines certified under this section must be in a separate engine family.
(a) If we approve your request, the following provisions apply:
(1) You must certify the engine using the test fuel specified in § 1048.501.
(2) You may produce the engine without limits or stops that keep the engine adjusted within the certified range.
(3) You must specify in-use adjustments different than the adjustable settings appropriate for the specified test fuel, consistent with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(b) To produce engines under this section, you must do the following:
(1) Specify in-use adjustments needed so the engine's level of emission control for each regulated pollutant is equivalent to that from the certified configuration.
(2) Add the following information to the emission control information label specified in § 1048.135:
(i) Include instructions describing how to adjust the engine to operate in a way that maintains the effectiveness of the emission-control system.
(ii) State: “THIS ENGINE IS CERTIFIED TO OPERATE IN APPLICATIONS USING NONCOMMERCIAL FUEL. MALADJUSTMENT OF THE ENGINE IS A VIOLATION OF FEDERAL LAW SUBJECT TO CIVIL PENALTY.”.
(3) Keep records to document the destinations and quantities of engines produced under this section.
[70 FR 40481, July 13, 2005]
§ 1048.630
What are the provisions for exempting engines used solely for competition?
We may grant you an exemption from the standards and requirements of this part for a new engine on the grounds that it is to be used solely for competition under the provisions of 40 CFR 1054.620. The requirements of this part do not apply to engines that we exempt for use solely for competition.
[73 FR 59242, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.635
What special provisions apply to branded engines?
The following provisions apply if you identify the name and trademark of another company instead of your own on your emission control information label, as provided by § 1048.135(c)(2):
(a) You must have a contractual agreement with the other company that obligates that company to take the following steps:
(1) Meet the emission warranty requirements that apply under § 1048.120. This may involve a separate agreement involving reimbursement of warranty-related expenses.
(2) Report all warranty-related information to the certificate holder.
(b) In your application for certification, identify the company whose trademark you will use.
(c) You remain responsible for meeting all the requirements of this chapter, including warranty and defect-reporting provisions.
[70 FR 40481, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59242, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1048.640
What special provisions apply for small-volume engine manufacturers?
This section describes how we apply the special provisions in this part for small-volume engine manufacturers.
(a) Special provisions apply for small-volume engine manufacturers, as illustrated by the following examples:
(1) Waived requirements related to torque broadcasting. See § 1048.115.
(2) Assigned deterioration factors to reduce testing burden. See § 1048.240.
(3) Additional special provisions apply for small-volume engine and equipment manufacturers under 40 CFR part 1068. For example, see 40 CFR 1068.250.
(b) If you use any of the provisions of this part that apply specifically to small-volume engine manufacturers and we find that you do not qualify to use these provisions, we may consider you to be in violation of the requirements that apply for companies that are not small-volume engine manufacturers. If you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer (based on increased production volumes or other factors), we will work with you to determine a reasonable schedule for complying with additional requirements that apply. For example, if you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer shortly before you certify your engines for the next model year, we might allow you to use assigned deterioration factors for one more model year.
[73 FR 59242, Oct. 8, 2008]
Subpart H [Reserved]

# Subpart I—Definitions and Other Reference Information
§ 1048.801
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part. The definitions apply to all subparts unless we note otherwise. All undefined terms have the meaning the Act gives to them. The definitions follow:
Act
means the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.
Adjustable parameter
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.50.
Aftertreatment
means relating to a catalytic converter, particulate filter, or any other system, component, or technology mounted downstream of the exhaust valve (or exhaust port) whose design function is to decrease emissions in the engine exhaust before it is exhausted to the environment. Exhaust-gas recirculation (EGR), turbochargers, and oxygen sensors are not aftertreatment.
Aircraft
means any vehicle capable of sustained air travel above treetop heights.
Alcohol-fueled engine
means an engine that is designed to run using an alcohol fuel. For purposes of this definition, alcohol fuels do not include fuels with a nominal alcohol content below 25 percent by volume.
All-terrain
vehicle has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1051.801.
Amphibious vehicle
means a vehicle with wheels or tracks that is designed primarily for operation on land and secondarily for operation in water.
Auxiliary emission-control device
means any element of design that senses temperature, motive speed, engine rpm, transmission gear, or any other parameter for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying, or deactivating the operation of any part of the emission-control system.
Blue Sky Series engine
means an engine meeting the requirements of § 1048.140.
Brake power
means the usable power output of the engine, not including power required to fuel, lubricate, or heat the engine, circulate coolant to the engine, or to operate aftertreatment devices.
Calibration
means the set of specifications and tolerances specific to a particular design, version, or application of a component or assembly capable of functionally describing its operation over its working range.
Carryover
means relating to certification based on emission data generated from an earlier model year as described in § 1048.235(d).
Certification
means relating to the process of obtaining a certificate of conformity for an engine family that complies with the emission standards and requirements in this part.
Certified emission level
means the highest deteriorated emission level in an engine family for a given pollutant from either transient or steady-state testing.
Compression-ignition
means relating to a type of reciprocating, internal-combustion engine that is not a spark-ignition engine.
Constant-speed engine
means an engine that is certified only for constant-speed operation. This may include engines that allow the operator to adjust the set point for fixing the appropriate governed speed. See subparts B and C of this part for specific provisions related to certifying engines only for constant-speed operation. Engines whose constant-speed governor function is removed or disabled are no longer constant-speed engines.
Constant-speed operation
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Crankcase emissions
means airborne substances emitted to the atmosphere from any part of the engine crankcase's ventilation or lubrication systems. The crankcase is the housing for the crankshaft and other related internal parts.
Critical emission-related component
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Date of manufacture
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Days
means calendar days unless otherwise specified. For example, where we specify working days, we mean calendar days excluding weekends and U.S. national holidays.
Designated Compliance Officer
means the Manager, Heavy-Duty and Nonroad Engine Group (6405-J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460.
Designated Enforcement Officer
means the Director, Air Enforcement Division (2242A), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460.
Deteriorated emission level
means the emission level that results from applying the appropriate deterioration factor to the official emission result of the emission-data engine.
Deterioration factor
means the relationship between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point, expressed in one of the following ways:
(1) For multiplicative deterioration factors, the ratio of emissions at the end of useful life to emissions at the low-hour test point.
(2) For additive deterioration factors, the difference between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point.
Discrete-mode
means relating to the discrete-mode type of steady-state test described in § 1048.505.
Emission-control system
means any device, system, or element of design that controls or reduces the emissions of regulated pollutants from an engine.
Emission-data engine
means an engine that is tested for certification. This includes engines tested to establish deterioration factors.
Emission-related maintenance
means maintenance that substantially affects emissions or is likely to substantially affect emission deterioration.
Engine
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. This includes complete and partially complete engines.
Engine configuration
means a unique combination of engine hardware and calibration within an engine family. Engines within a single engine configuration differ only with respect to normal production variability or factors unrelated to emissions.
Engine family
has the meaning given in § 1048.230.
Engine manufacturer
means the manufacturer of the engine. See the definition of “manufacturer” in this section.
Equipment manufacturer
means a manufacturer of nonroad equipment. All nonroad equipment manufacturing entities under the control of the same person are considered to be a single nonroad equipment manufacturer.
Excluded
means relating to an engine that either:
(1) Has been determined not to be a nonroad engine, as specified in 40 CFR 1068.30; or
(2) Is a nonroad engine that, according to § 1048.5, is not subject to this part 1048.
Exempted
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Exhaust-gas recirculation
means a technology that reduces emissions by routing exhaust gases that had been exhausted from the combustion chamber(s) back into the engine to be mixed with incoming air before or during combustion. The use of valve timing to increase the amount of residual exhaust gas in the combustion chamber(s) that is mixed with incoming air before or during combustion is not considered exhaust-gas recirculation for the purposes of this part.
Fuel system
means all components involved in transporting, metering, and mixing the fuel from the fuel tank to the combustion chamber(s), including the fuel tank, fuel tank cap, fuel pump, fuel filters, fuel lines, carburetor or fuel-injection components, and all fuel-system vents.
Fuel type
means a general category of fuels such as gasoline or natural gas. There can be multiple grades within a single fuel type, such as winter-grade and summer-grade gasoline.
Good engineering judgment
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. See 40 CFR 1068.5 for the administrative process we use to evaluate good engineering judgment.
High-cost warranted part
means a component covered by the emission-related warranty with a replacement cost (at the time of certification) exceeding $400 (in 1998 dollars). Adjust this value using the most recent annual average consumer price index information published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. For this definition, replacement cost includes the retail cost of the part plus labor and standard diagnosis.
High-load engine
means an engine for which the engine manufacturer can provide clear evidence that operation below 75 percent of maximum load in its final application will be rare.
Hydrocarbon (HC)
means the hydrocarbon group on which the emission standards are based for each fuel type, as described in § 1048.101(e).
Identification number
means a unique specification (for example, a model number/serial number combination) that allows someone to distinguish a particular engine from other similar engines.
Intermediate test speed
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Low-hour
means relating to an engine with stabilized emissions and represents the undeteriorated emission level. This would generally involve less than 125 hours of operation.
Manufacturer
has the meaning given in section 216(1) of the Act. In general, this term includes any person who manufactures an engine, vehicle, or piece of equipment for sale in the United States or otherwise introduces a new nonroad engine into commerce in the United States. This includes importers who import engines, equipment, or vehicles for resale.
Marine engine
means a nonroad engine that is installed or intended to be installed on a marine vessel. This includes a portable auxiliary engine only if its fueling, cooling, or exhaust system is an integral part of the vessel. There are two kinds of marine engines:
(1) Propulsion marine engine means a marine engine that moves a vessel through the water or directs the vessel's movement.
(2) Auxiliary marine engine means a marine engine not used for propulsion.
Marine vessel
has the meaning given in 1 U.S.C. 3, except that it does not include amphibious vehicles. The definition in 1 U.S.C. 3 very broadly includes every craft capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
Maximum engine power
has one of the following meanings:
(1) For engines at or below 100 kW, maximum engine power has the meaning given in 40 CFR 90.3 for 2010 and earlier model years and in 40 CFR 1054.140 for 2011 and later model years.
(2) For engines above 100 kW, maximum engine power has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1039.140.
Maximum test speed
has one of the following meanings:
(1) For variable-speed engines, maximum test speed has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
(2) For transient testing of constant-speed engines, maximum test speed means the highest speed at which the engine produces zero torque.
(3) For steady-state testing of constant-speed engines, maximum test speed means the speed at which the engine produces peak torque.
Maximum test torque
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Model year
means one of the following things:
(1) For freshly manufactured equipment and engines (see definition of “new nonroad engine,” paragraph (1)), model year means one of the following:
(i) Calendar year.
(ii) Your annual new model production period if it is different than the calendar year.
This must include January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named. It may not begin before January 2 of the previous calendar year and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year.
(2) For an engine that is converted to a nonroad engine after being placed into service as a stationary engine, or being certified and placed into service as a motor vehicle engine, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced. For a motor vehicle engine that is converted to be a nonroad engine without having been certified, model year means the calendar year in which the engine becomes a new nonroad engine. (See definition of “new nonroad engine,” paragraph (2)).
(3) For a nonroad engine excluded under § 1048.5 that is later converted to operate in an application that is not excluded, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced (see definition of “new nonroad engine,” paragraph (3)).
(4) For engines that are not freshly manufactured but are installed in new nonroad equipment, model year means the calendar year in which the engine is installed in the new nonroad equipment (see definition of “new nonroad engine,” paragraph (4)).
(5) For imported engines:
(i) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(i) of the definition of “new nonroad engine,”
model year
has the meaning given in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition.
(ii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(ii) of the definition of “new nonroad engine,”
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine is modified.
(iii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(iii) of the definition of “new nonroad engine,”
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine is assembled in its imported configuration, unless specified otherwise in this part or in 40 CFR part 1068.
Motor vehicle
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 85.1703(a).
New nonroad engine
means any of the following things:
(1) A freshly manufactured nonroad engine for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. This kind of engine might commonly be thought of as “brand new.” In the case of this paragraph (1), the engine is new from the
time it is produced until the ultimate purchaser receives the title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(2) An engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used in a piece of nonroad equipment. In this case, the engine is no longer a motor vehicle or stationary engine and becomes a “new nonroad engine.” The engine is no longer new when it is placed into nonroad service. This paragraph (2) applies if a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine is installed in nonroad equipment, or if a motor vehicle or a piece of stationary equipment is modified (or moved) to become nonroad equipment.
(3) A nonroad engine that has been previously placed into service in an application we exclude under § 1048.5, when that engine is installed in a piece of equipment that is covered by this part 1048. The engine is no longer new when it is placed into nonroad service covered by this part 1048. For example, this would apply to a marine-propulsion engine that is no longer used in a marine vessel but is instead installed in a piece of nonroad equipment subject to the provisions of this part.
(4) An engine not covered by paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition that is intended to be installed in new nonroad equipment. This generally includes installation of used engines in new equipment. The engine is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the equipment or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(5) An imported nonroad engine, subject to the following provisions:
(i) An imported nonroad engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part that meets the criteria of one or more of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, where the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate, is new as defined by those applicable paragraphs.
(ii) An imported engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part, where someone other than the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate (such as when the engine is modified after its initial assembly), is a new nonroad engine when it is imported. It is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the engine or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(iii) An imported nonroad engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation is new. This addresses uncertified engines and equipment initially placed into service that someone seeks to import into the United States. Importation of this kind of engine (or equipment containing such an engine) is generally prohibited by 40 CFR part 1068. However, the importation of such an engine is not prohibited if the engine has a model year before 2004, since it is not subject to standards.
New nonroad equipment
means either of the following things:
(1) A nonroad piece of equipment for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. The product is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives this title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(2) An imported nonroad piece of equipment with an engine not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation and manufactured after January 1, 2004.
Noncommercial fuel
means a combustible product that is not marketed as a commercial fuel, but is used as a fuel for nonroad engines. For example, this includes methane that is produced and released from landfills or oil wells, or similar unprocessed fuels that are not intended to meet any otherwise applicable fuel specifications. See § 1048.625 for provisions related to engines designed to burn noncommercial fuels.
Noncompliant engine
means an engine that was originally covered by a certificate of conformity, but is not in the certified configuration or otherwise does not comply with the conditions of the certificate.
Nonconforming engine
means an engine not covered by a certificate of conformity that would otherwise be subject to emission standards.
Nonmethane hydrocarbon
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Nonroad
means relating to nonroad engines or equipment that includes nonroad engines.
Nonroad engine
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general this means all internal-combustion engines except motor vehicle engines, stationary engines, engines used solely for competition, or engines used in aircraft. This part does not apply to all nonroad engines (see § 1048.5).
Nonroad equipment
means a piece of equipment that is powered by one or more nonroad engines.
Off-highway motorcycle
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1051.801. (Note: highway motorcycles are regulated under 40 CFR part 86.)
Official emission result
means the measured emission rate for an emission-data engine on a given duty cycle before the application of any deterioration factor.
Owners manual
means a document or collection of documents prepared by the engine manufacturer for the owner or operator to describe appropriate engine maintenance, applicable warranties, and any other information related to operating or keeping the engine. The owners manual is typically provided to the ultimate purchaser at the time of sale. The owners manual may be in paper or electronic format.
Oxides of nitrogen
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Piece of equipment
means any vehicle, vessel, or other type of equipment using engines to which this part applies.
Placed into service
means put into initial use for its intended purpose.
Point of first retail sale
means the location at which the initial retail sale occurs. This generally means an equipment dealership, but may also include an engine seller or distributor in cases where loose engines are sold to the general public for uses such as replacement engines.
Ramped-modal
means relating to the ramped-modal type of steady-state test described in § 1048.505.
Rated speed
means the maximum full-load governed speed for governed engines and the speed of maximum power for ungoverned engines.
Revoke
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Round
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001, unless otherwise specified.
Scheduled maintenance
means adjusting, repairing, removing, disassembling, cleaning, or replacing components or systems periodically to keep a part or system from failing, malfunctioning, or wearing prematurely. It also may mean actions you expect are necessary to correct an overt indication of failure or malfunction for which periodic maintenance is not appropriate.
Sealed
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1060.801.
Severe-duty application
includes concrete saws, concrete pumps, and any other application where an engine manufacturer can provide clear evidence that the majority of installations need air-cooled engines as a result of operation in a severe-duty environment.
Severe-duty engine
means an engine from an engine family in which the majority of engines are installed in severe-duty applications.
Small-volume engine manufacturer
means a company meeting either of the following characteristics:
(1) An engine manufacturer with U.S.-directed production volumes of engines subject to the requirements of this part totaling no more than 2,000 units in any year. This includes engines produced by parent or subsidiary companies.
(2) An engine manufacturer with fewer than 200 employees. This includes any employees working for parent or subsidiary companies.
Snowmobile
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1051.801.
Spark-ignition
means relating to a gasoline-fueled engine or any other type of engine with a spark plug (or other sparking device) and with operating characteristics significantly similar to the theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark-ignition engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air flow to control power during normal operation.
Steady-state
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Stoichiometric
means relating to the particular ratio of air and fuel such that if the fuel were fully oxidized,
there would be no remaining fuel or oxygen. For example, stoichiometric combustion in a gasoline-fueled engine typically occurs at an air-fuel mass ratio of about 14.7.
Suspend
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Test engine
means an engine in a test sample.
Test sample
means the collection of engines selected from the population of an engine family for emission testing. This may include testing for certification, production-line testing, or in-use testing.
Tier 1
means relating to the emission standards and other requirements that apply beginning with the 2004 model year.
Tier 2
means relating to the emission standards and other requirements that apply beginning with the 2007 model year.
Total hydrocarbon
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This generally means the combined mass of organic compounds measured by the specified procedure for measuring total hydrocarbon, expressed as a hydrocarbon with a hydrogen-to-carbon mass ratio of 1.85:1.
Total hydrocarbon equivalent
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Ultimate purchaser
means, with respect to any new nonroad equipment or new nonroad engine, the first person who in good faith purchases such new nonroad equipment or new nonroad engine for purposes other than resale.
United States
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Upcoming model year
means for an engine family the model year after the one currently in production.
U.S.-directed production volume
means the number of engine units, subject to the requirements of this part, produced by a manufacturer for which the manufacturer has a reasonable assurance that sale was or will be made to ultimate purchasers in the United States.
Useful life
means the period during which the engine is designed to properly function in terms of reliability and fuel consumption, without being remanufactured, specified as a number of hours of operation or calendar years, whichever comes first. It is the period during which a nonroad engine is required to comply with all applicable emission standards. See § 1048.101(g). If an engine has no hour meter, the specified number of hours does not limit the period during which an in-use engine is required to comply with emission standards unless the degree of service accumulation can be verified separately.
Variable-speed engine
means an engine that is not a constant-speed engine.
Variable-speed operation
means engine operation that does not meet the definition of constant-speed operation.
Void
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Volatile liquid fuel
means any fuel other than diesel or biodiesel that is a liquid at atmospheric pressure and has a Reid Vapor Pressure higher than 2.0 pounds per square inch.
Wide-open throttle
means maximum throttle opening. Unless this is specified at a given speed, it refers to maximum throttle opening at maximum speed. For electronically controlled or other engines with multiple possible fueling rates, wide-open throttle also means the maximum fueling rate at maximum throttle opening under test conditions.
We (us, our)
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and any authorized representatives.
[70 FR 40482, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59242, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 8426, Feb. 24, 2009; 75 FR 23023, Apr. 30, 2010; 88 FR 4665, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1048.805
What symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations does this part use?
The following symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations apply to this part:
°C degrees Celsius.
ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials.
cc cubic centimeters.
CFR Code of Federal Regulations.
CH
4
methane.
cm centimeter.
CO carbon monoxide.
CO
2
carbon dioxide.
EPA Environmental Protection Agency.
g/kW-hr grams per kilowatt-hour.
HC hydrocarbon.
ISO International Organization for Standardization.
kPa kilopascals.
kW kilowatts.
LPG liquefied petroleum gas.
m meters.
MIL malfunction-indicator light.
mm Hg millimeters of mercury.
N
2
O nitrous oxide.
NARA National Archives and Records Administration.
NMHC nonmethane hydrocarbons.
NO
X
oxides of nitrogen (NO and NO
2
).
psi pounds per square inch of absolute pressure.
psig pounds per square inch of gauge pressure.
rpm revolutions per minute.
SAE Society of Automotive Engineers.
SI spark-ignition.
THC total hydrocarbon.
THCE total hydrocarbon equivalent.
U.S.C. United States Code.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40485, July 13, 2005; 74 FR 56510, Oct. 30, 2009]
§ 1048.810
What materials does this part reference?
(a) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, the Environmental Protection Agency must publish a notice of the change in the
Federal Register
and the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection at U.S. EPA, Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Room B102, EPA West Building, Washington, DC 20460, (202) 202-1744, and is available from the sources listed below. It is also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b) Society of Automotive Engineers, 400 Commonwealth Dr., Warrendale, PA 15096-0001, (877) 606-7323 (U.S. and Canada) or (724) 776-4970 (outside the U.S. and Canada),
http://www.sae.org.
(1) SAE J2260, Nonmetallic Fuel System Tubing with One or More Layers, November 2004; IBR approved for § 1048.105(a).
(2) SAE J2260, Nonmetallic Fuel System Tubing with One or More Layers, November 1996; IBR approved for § 1048.105(a).
(c) International Organization for Standardization, Case Postale 56, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland, (41) 22749 0111,
http://www.iso.org,
or
central@iso.org.
(1) ISO 9141-2 Road vehicles—Diagnostic systems— Part 2: CARB requirements for interchange of digital information, February 1994; IBR approved for § 1048.110(g).
(2) ISO 14230-4 Road vehicles—Diagnostic systems—Keyword Protocol 2000—Part 4: Requirements for emission-related systems, June 2000; IBR approved for § 1048.110(g).
[78 FR 36397, June 17, 2013]
§ 1048.815
What provisions apply to confidential information?
The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.10 and 1068.11 apply for information you submit under this part.
[88 FR 4666, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1048.820
How do I request a hearing?
(a) You may request a hearing under certain circumstances, as described elsewhere in this part. To do this, you must file a written request, including a description of your objection and any supporting data, within 30 days after we make a decision.
(b) For a hearing you request under the provisions of this part, we will approve your request if we find that your request raises a substantial factual issue.
(c) If we agree to hold a hearing, we will use the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G.
[70 FR 40486, July 13, 2005]
§ 1048.825
What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?
Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
), the Office of Management and Budget approves the reporting and recordkeeping specified in the applicable regulations. The following items illustrate the kind of reporting and recordkeeping we require for engines and equipment regulated under this part:
(a) We specify the following requirements related to engine certification in this part 1048:
(1) In § 1048.20 we require manufacturers of stationary engines to label their engines in certain cases.
(2) In § 1048.135 we require engine manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels sent to equipment manufacturers.
(3) In § 1048.145 we include various reporting and recordkeeping requirements related to interim provisions.
(4) In subpart C of this part we identify a wide range of information required to certify engines.
(5) In §§ 1048.345 and 1048.350 we specify certain records related to production-line testing.
(6) In §§ 1048.420 and 1048.425 we specify certain records related to in-use testing.
(7) In subpart G of this part we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various special compliance provisions.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) We specify the following requirements related to testing in 40 CFR part 1065:
(1) In 40 CFR 1065.2 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.
(2) In 40 CFR 1065.10 and 1065.12 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.
(3) In 40 CFR 1065.25 we establish basic guidelines for storing test information.
(4) In 40 CFR 1065.695 we identify data that may be appropriate for collecting during testing of in-use engines using portable analyzers.
(d) We specify the following requirements related to the general compliance provisions in 40 CFR part 1068:
(1) In 40 CFR 1068.5 we establish a process for evaluating good engineering judgment related to testing and certification.
(2) In 40 CFR 1068.25 we describe general provisions related to sending and keeping information.
(3) In 40 CFR 1068.27 we require manufacturers to make engines available for our testing or inspection if we make such a request.
(4) In 40 CFR 1068.105 we require equipment manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels from engine manufacturers.
(5) In 40 CFR 1068.120 we specify recordkeeping related to rebuilding engines.
(6) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various exemptions.
(7) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart D, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to importing engines.
(8) In 40 CFR 1068.450 and 1068.455 we specify certain records related to testing production-line engines in a selective enforcement audit.
(9) In 40 CFR 1068.501 we specify certain records related to investigating and reporting emission-related defects.
(10) In 40 CFR 1068.525 and 1068.530 we specify certain records related to recalling nonconforming engines.
[73 FR 59245, Oct. 8, 2008]
Appendix I to Part 1048 [Reserved]
Pt. 1048, App. II

# Appendix II to Part 1048—Large Spark-ignition (SI) Composite Transient Cycle
The following table shows the transient duty-cycle for engines that are not constant-speed engines, as described in § 1048.510:
Time(s)
Normalized speed (percent)
Normalized torque (percent)
0
0
0
1
0
0
2
0
0
3
0
0
4
0
0
5
0
0
6
0
0
7
0
0
8
0
0
9
1
8
10
6
54
11
8
61
12
34
59
13
22
46
14
5
51
15
18
51
16
31
50
17
30
56
18
31
49
19
25
66
20
58
55
21
43
31
22
16
45
23
24
38
24
24
27
25
30
33
26
45
65
27
50
49
28
23
42
29
13
42
30
9
45
31
23
30
32
37
45
33
44
50
34
49
52
35
55
49
36
61
46
37
66
38
38
42
33
39
17
41
40
17
37
41
7
50
42
20
32
43
5
55
44
30
42
45
44
53
46
45
56
47
41
52
48
24
41
49
15
40
50
11
44
51
32
31
52
38
54
53
38
47
54
9
55
55
10
50
56
33
55
57
48
56
58
49
47
59
33
44
60
52
43
61
55
43
62
59
38
63
44
28
64
24
37
65
12
44
66
9
47
67
12
52
68
34
21
69
29
44
70
44
54
71
54
62
72
62
57
73
72
56
74
88
71
75
100
69
76
100
34
77
100
42
78
100
54
79
100
58
80
100
38
81
83
17
82
61
15
83
43
22
84
24
35
85
16
39
86
15
45
87
32
34
88
14
42
89
8
48
90
5
51
91
10
41
92
12
37
93
4
47
94
3
49
95
3
50
96
4
49
97
4
48
98
8
43
99
2
51
100
5
46
101
8
41
102
4
47
103
3
49
104
6
45
105
3
48
106
10
42
107
18
27
108
3
50
109
11
41
110
34
29
111
51
57
112
67
63
113
61
32
114
44
31
115
48
54
116
69
65
117
85
65
118
81
29
119
74
21
120
62
23
121
76
58
122
96
75
123
100
77
124
100
27
125
100
79
126
100
79
127
100
81
128
100
57
129
99
52
130
81
35
131
69
29
132
47
22
133
34
28
134
27
37
135
83
60
136
100
74
137
100
7
138
100
2
139
70
18
140
23
39
141
5
54
142
11
40
143
11
34
144
11
41
145
19
25
146
16
32
147
20
31
148
21
38
149
21
42
150
9
51
151
4
49
152
2
51
153
1
58
154
21
57
155
29
47
156
33
45
157
16
49
158
38
45
159
37
43
160
35
42
161
39
43
162
51
49
163
59
55
164
65
54
165
76
62
166
84
59
167
83
29
168
67
35
169
84
54
170
90
58
171
93
43
172
90
29
173
66
19
174
52
16
175
49
17
176
56
38
177
73
71
178
86
80
179
96
75
180
89
27
181
66
17
182
50
18
183
36
25
184
36
24
185
38
40
186
40
50
187
27
48
188
19
48
189
23
50
190
19
45
191
6
51
192
24
48
193
49
67
194
47
49
195
22
44
196
25
40
197
38
54
198
43
55
199
40
52
200
14
49
201
11
45
202
7
48
203
26
41
204
41
59
205
53
60
206
44
54
207
22
40
208
24
41
209
32
53
210
44
74
211
57
25
212
22
49
213
29
45
214
19
37
215
14
43
216
36
40
217
43
63
218
42
49
219
15
50
220
19
44
221
47
59
222
67
80
223
76
74
224
87
66
225
98
61
226
100
38
227
97
27
228
100
53
229
100
72
230
100
49
231
100
4
232
100
13
233
87
15
234
53
26
235
33
27
236
39
19
237
51
33
238
67
54
239
83
60
240
95
52
241
100
50
242
100
36
243
100
25
244
85
16
245
62
16
246
40
26
247
56
39
248
81
75
249
98
86
250
100
76
251
100
51
252
100
78
253
100
83
254
100
100
255
100
66
256
100
85
257
100
72
258
100
45
259
98
58
260
60
30
261
43
32
262
71
36
263
44
32
264
24
38
265
42
17
266
22
51
267
13
53
268
23
45
269
29
50
270
28
42
271
21
55
272
34
57
273
44
47
274
19
46
275
13
44
276
25
36
277
43
51
278
55
73
279
68
72
280
76
63
281
80
45
282
83
40
283
78
26
284
60
20
285
47
19
286
52
25
287
36
30
288
40
26
289
45
34
290
47
35
291
42
28
292
46
38
293
48
44
294
68
61
295
70
47
296
48
28
297
42
22
298
31
29
299
22
35
300
28
28
301
46
46
302
62
69
303
76
81
304
88
85
305
98
81
306
100
74
307
100
13
308
100
11
309
100
17
310
99
3
311
80
7
312
62
11
313
63
11
314
64
16
315
69
43
316
81
67
317
93
74
318
100
72
319
94
27
320
73
15
321
40
33
322
40
52
323
50
50
324
11
53
325
12
45
326
5
50
327
1
55
328
7
55
329
62
60
330
80
28
331
23
37
332
39
58
333
47
24
334
59
51
335
58
68
336
36
52
337
18
42
338
36
52
339
59
73
340
72
85
341
85
92
342
99
90
343
100
72
344
100
18
345
100
76
346
100
64
347
100
87
348
100
97
349
100
84
350
100
100
351
100
91
352
100
83
353
100
93
354
100
100
355
94
43
356
72
10
357
77
3
358
48
2
359
29
5
360
59
19
361
63
5
362
35
2
363
24
3
364
28
2
365
36
16
366
54
23
367
60
10
368
33
1
369
23
0
370
16
0
371
11
0
372
20
0
373
25
2
374
40
3
375
33
4
376
34
5
377
46
7
378
57
10
379
66
11
380
75
14
381
79
11
382
80
16
383
92
21
384
99
16
385
83
2
386
71
2
387
69
4
388
67
4
389
74
16
390
86
25
391
97
28
392
100
15
393
83
2
394
62
4
395
40
6
396
49
10
397
36
5
398
27
4
399
29
3
400
22
2
401
13
3
402
37
36
403
90
26
404
41
2
405
25
2
406
29
2
407
38
7
408
50
13
409
55
10
410
29
3
411
24
7
412
51
16
413
62
15
414
72
35
415
91
74
416
100
73
417
100
8
418
98
11
419
100
59
420
100
98
421
100
99
422
100
75
423
100
95
424
100
100
425
100
97
426
100
90
427
100
86
428
100
82
429
97
43
430
70
16
431
50
20
432
42
33
433
89
64
434
89
77
435
99
95
436
100
41
437
77
12
438
29
37
439
16
41
440
16
38
441
15
36
442
18
44
443
4
55
444
24
26
445
26
35
446
15
45
447
21
39
448
29
52
449
26
46
450
27
50
451
13
43
452
25
36
453
37
57
454
29
46
455
17
39
456
13
41
457
19
38
458
28
35
459
8
51
460
14
36
461
17
47
462
34
39
463
34
57
464
11
70
465
13
51
466
13
68
467
38
44
468
53
67
469
29
69
470
19
65
471
52
45
472
61
79
473
29
70
474
15
53
475
15
60
476
52
40
477
50
61
478
13
74
479
46
51
480
60
73
481
33
84
482
31
63
483
41
42
484
26
69
485
23
65
486
48
49
487
28
57
488
16
67
489
39
48
490
47
73
491
35
87
492
26
73
493
30
61
494
34
49
495
35
66
496
56
47
497
49
64
498
59
64
499
42
69
500
6
77
501
5
59
502
17
59
503
45
53
504
21
62
505
31
60
506
53
68
507
48
79
508
45
61
509
51
47
510
41
48
511
26
58
512
21
62
513
50
52
514
39
65
515
23
65
516
42
62
517
57
80
518
66
81
519
64
62
520
45
42
521
33
42
522
27
57
523
31
59
524
41
53
525
45
72
526
48
73
527
46
90
528
56
76
529
64
76
530
69
64
531
72
59
532
73
58
533
71
56
534
66
48
535
61
50
536
55
56
537
52
52
538
54
49
539
61
50
540
64
54
541
67
54
542
68
52
543
60
53
544
52
50
545
45
49
546
38
45
547
32
45
548
26
53
549
23
56
550
30
49
551
33
55
552
35
59
553
33
65
554
30
67
555
28
59
556
25
58
557
23
56
558
22
57
559
19
63
560
14
63
561
31
61
562
35
62
563
21
80
564
28
65
565
7
74
566
23
54
567
38
54
568
14
78
569
38
58
570
52
75
571
59
81
572
66
69
573
54
44
574
48
34
575
44
33
576
40
40
577
28
58
578
27
63
579
35
45
580
20
66
581
15
60
582
10
52
583
22
56
584
30
62
585
21
67
586
29
53
587
41
56
588
15
67
589
24
56
590
42
69
591
39
83
592
40
73
593
35
67
594
32
61
595
30
65
596
30
72
597
48
51
598
66
58
599
62
71
600
36
63
601
17
59
602
16
50
603
16
62
604
34
48
605
51
66
606
35
74
607
15
56
608
19
54
609
43
65
610
52
80
611
52
83
612
49
57
613
48
46
614
37
36
615
25
44
616
14
53
617
13
64
618
23
56
619
21
63
620
18
67
621
20
54
622
16
67
623
26
56
624
41
65
625
28
62
626
19
60
627
33
56
628
37
70
629
24
79
630
28
57
631
40
57
632
40
58
633
28
44
634
25
41
635
29
53
636
31
55
637
26
64
638
20
50
639
16
53
640
11
54
641
13
53
642
23
50
643
32
59
644
36
63
645
33
59
646
24
52
647
20
52
648
22
55
649
30
53
650
37
59
651
41
58
652
36
54
653
29
49
654
24
53
655
14
57
656
10
54
657
9
55
658
10
57
659
13
55
660
15
64
661
31
57
662
19
69
663
14
59
664
33
57
665
41
65
666
39
64
667
39
59
668
39
51
669
28
41
670
19
49
671
27
54
672
37
63
673
32
74
674
16
70
675
12
67
676
13
60
677
17
56
678
15
62
679
25
47
680
27
64
681
14
71
682
5
65
683
6
57
684
6
57
685
15
52
686
22
61
687
14
77
688
12
67
689
12
62
690
14
59
691
15
58
692
18
55
693
22
53
694
19
69
695
14
67
696
9
63
697
8
56
698
17
49
699
25
55
700
14
70
701
12
60
702
22
57
703
27
67
704
29
68
705
34
62
706
35
61
707
28
78
708
11
71
709
4
58
710
5
58
711
10
56
712
20
63
713
13
76
714
11
65
715
9
60
716
7
55
717
8
53
718
10
60
719
28
53
720
12
73
721
4
64
722
4
61
723
4
61
724
10
56
725
8
61
726
20
56
727
32
62
728
33
66
729
34
73
730
31
61
731
33
55
732
33
60
733
31
59
734
29
58
735
31
53
736
33
51
737
33
48
738
27
44
739
21
52
740
13
57
741
12
56
742
10
64
743
22
47
744
15
74
745
8
66
746
34
47
747
18
71
748
9
57
749
11
55
750
12
57
751
10
61
752
16
53
753
12
75
754
6
70
755
12
55
756
24
50
757
28
60
758
28
64
759
23
60
760
20
56
761
26
50
762
28
55
763
18
56
764
15
52
765
11
59
766
16
59
767
34
54
768
16
82
769
15
64
770
36
53
771
45
64
772
41
59
773
34
50
774
27
45
775
22
52
776
18
55
777
26
54
778
39
62
779
37
71
780
32
58
781
24
48
782
14
59
783
7
59
784
7
55
785
18
49
786
40
62
787
44
73
788
41
68
789
35
48
790
29
54
791
22
69
792
46
53
793
59
71
794
69
68
795
75
47
796
62
32
797
48
35
798
27
59
799
13
58
800
14
54
801
21
53
802
23
56
803
23
57
804
23
65
805
13
65
806
9
64
807
27
56
808
26
78
809
40
61
810
35
76
811
28
66
812
23
57
813
16
50
814
11
53
815
9
57
816
9
62
817
27
57
818
42
69
819
47
75
820
53
67
821
61
62
822
63
53
823
60
54
824
56
44
825
49
39
826
39
35
827
30
34
828
33
46
829
44
56
830
50
56
831
44
52
832
38
46
833
33
44
834
29
45
835
24
46
836
18
52
837
9
55
838
10
54
839
20
53
840
27
58
841
29
59
842
30
62
843
30
65
844
27
66
845
32
58
846
40
56
847
41
57
848
18
73
849
15
55
850
18
50
851
17
52
852
20
49
853
16
62
854
4
67
855
2
64
856
7
54
857
10
50
858
9
57
859
5
62
860
12
51
861
14
65
862
9
64
863
31
50
864
30
78
865
21
65
866
14
51
867
10
55
868
6
59
869
7
59
870
19
54
871
23
61
872
24
62
873
34
61
874
51
67
875
60
66
876
58
55
877
60
52
878
64
55
879
68
51
880
63
54
881
64
50
882
68
58
883
73
47
884
63
40
885
50
38
886
29
61
887
14
61
888
14
53
889
42
6
890
58
6
891
58
6
892
77
39
893
93
56
894
93
44
895
93
37
896
93
31
897
93
25
898
93
26
899
93
27
900
93
25
901
93
21
902
93
22
903
93
24
904
93
23
905
93
27
906
93
34
907
93
32
908
93
26
909
93
31
910
93
34
911
93
31
912
93
33
913
93
36
914
93
37
915
93
34
916
93
30
917
93
32
918
93
35
919
93
35
920
93
32
921
93
28
922
93
23
923
94
18
924
95
18
925
96
17
926
95
13
927
96
10
928
95
9
929
95
7
930
95
7
931
96
7
932
96
6
933
96
6
934
95
6
935
90
6
936
69
43
937
76
62
938
93
47
939
93
39
940
93
35
941
93
34
942
93
36
943
93
39
944
93
34
945
93
26
946
93
23
947
93
24
948
93
24
949
93
22
950
93
19
951
93
17
952
93
19
953
93
22
954
93
24
955
93
23
956
93
20
957
93
20
958
94
19
959
95
19
960
95
17
961
96
13
962
95
10
963
96
9
964
95
7
965
95
7
966
95
7
967
95
6
968
96
6
969
96
6
970
89
6
971
68
6
972
57
6
973
66
32
974
84
52
975
93
46
976
93
42
977
93
36
978
93
28
979
93
23
980
93
19
981
93
16
982
93
15
983
93
16
984
93
15
985
93
14
986
93
15
987
93
16
988
94
15
989
93
32
990
93
45
991
93
43
992
93
37
993
93
29
994
93
23
995
93
20
996
93
18
997
93
16
998
93
17
999
93
16
1000
93
15
1001
93
15
1002
93
15
1003
93
14
1004
93
15
1005
93
15
1006
93
14
1007
93
13
1008
93
14
1009
93
14
1010
93
15
1011
93
16
1012
93
17
1013
93
20
1014
93
22
1015
93
20
1016
93
19
1017
93
20
1018
93
19
1019
93
19
1020
93
20
1021
93
32
1022
93
37
1023
93
28
1024
93
26
1025
93
24
1026
93
22
1027
93
22
1028
93
21
1029
93
20
1030
93
20
1031
93
20
1032
93
20
1033
93
19
1034
93
18
1035
93
20
1036
93
20
1037
93
20
1038
93
20
1039
93
19
1040
93
18
1041
93
18
1042
93
17
1043
93
16
1044
93
16
1045
93
15
1046
93
16
1047
93
18
1048
93
37
1049
93
48
1050
93
38
1051
93
31
1052
93
26
1053
93
21
1054
93
18
1055
93
16
1056
93
17
1057
93
18
1058
93
19
1059
93
21
1060
93
20
1061
93
18
1062
93
17
1063
93
17
1064
93
18
1065
93
18
1066
93
18
1067
93
19
1068
93
18
1069
93
18
1070
93
20
1071
93
23
1072
93
25
1073
93
25
1074
93
24
1075
93
24
1076
93
22
1077
93
22
1078
93
22
1079
93
19
1080
93
16
1081
95
17
1082
95
37
1083
93
43
1084
93
32
1085
93
27
1086
93
26
1087
93
24
1088
93
22
1089
93
22
1090
93
22
1091
93
23
1092
93
22
1093
93
22
1094
93
23
1095
93
23
1096
93
23
1097
93
22
1098
93
23
1099
93
23
1100
93
23
1101
93
25
1102
93
27
1103
93
26
1104
93
25
1105
93
27
1106
93
27
1107
93
27
1108
93
24
1109
93
20
1110
93
18
1111
93
17
1112
93
17
1113
93
18
1114
93
18
1115
93
18
1116
93
19
1117
93
22
1118
93
22
1119
93
19
1120
93
17
1121
93
17
1122
93
18
1123
93
18
1124
93
19
1125
93
19
1126
93
20
1127
93
19
1128
93
20
1129
93
25
1130
93
30
1131
93
31
1132
93
26
1133
93
21
1134
93
18
1135
93
20
1136
93
25
1137
93
24
1138
93
21
1139
93
21
1140
93
22
1141
93
22
1142
93
28
1143
93
29
1144
93
23
1145
93
21
1146
93
18
1147
93
16
1148
93
16
1149
93
16
1150
93
17
1151
93
17
1152
93
17
1153
93
17
1154
93
23
1155
93
26
1156
93
22
1157
93
18
1158
93
16
1159
93
16
1160
93
17
1161
93
19
1162
93
18
1163
93
16
1164
93
19
1165
93
22
1166
93
25
1167
93
29
1168
93
27
1169
93
22
1170
93
18
1171
93
16
1172
93
19
1173
93
19
1174
93
17
1175
93
17
1176
93
17
1177
93
16
1178
93
16
1179
93
15
1180
93
16
1181
93
15
1182
93
17
1183
93
21
1184
93
30
1185
93
53
1186
93
54
1187
93
38
1188
93
30
1189
93
24
1190
93
20
1191
95
20
1192
96
18
1193
96
15
1194
96
11
1195
95
9
1196
95
8
1197
96
7
1198
94
33
1199
93
46
1200
93
37
1201
16
8
1202
0
0
1203
0
0
1204
0
0
1205
0
0
1206
0
0
1207
0
0
1208
0
0
1209
0
0
Pt. 1051

# PART 1051—CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM RECREATIONAL ENGINES AND VEHICLES

# Subpart A—Determining How To Follow This Part
Sec.
1051.1
Does this part apply for my vehicles or engines?
1051.2
Who is responsible for compliance?
1051.5
Which engines are excluded from this part's requirements?
1051.10
How is this part organized?
1051.15
Do any other regulation parts apply to me?
1051.20
May I certify a recreational engine instead of the vehicle?
1051.25
What requirements apply when installing certified engines in recreational vehicles?
1051.30
Submission of information.

# Subpart B—Emission Standards and Related Requirements
1051.101
What emission standards and other requirements must my vehicles meet?
1051.103
What are the exhaust emission standards for snowmobiles?
1051.105
What are the exhaust emission standards for off-highway motorcycles?
1051.107
What are the exhaust emission standards for all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and offroad utility vehicles?
1051.110
What evaporative emission standards must my vehicles meet?
1051.115
What other requirements apply?
1051.120
What emission-related warranty requirements apply to me?
1051.125
What maintenance instructions must I give to buyers?
1051.130
What installation instructions must I give to vehicle manufacturers?
1051.135
How must I label and identify the vehicles I produce?
1051.137
What are the consumer labeling requirements?
1051.140
What is my vehicle's maximum engine power and displacement?
1051.145
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Certifying Engine Families
1051.201
What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity?
1051.205
What must I include in my application?
1051.210
May I get preliminary approval before I complete my application?
1051.220
How do I amend the maintenance instructions in my application?
1051.225
How do I amend my application for certification to include new or modified vehicle configurations or to change an FEL?
1051.230
How do I select engine families?
1051.235
What emission testing must I perform for my application for a certificate of conformity?
1051.240
How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?
1051.243
How do I determine deterioration factors from exhaust durability testing?
1051.245
How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with evaporative emission standards?
1051.250
What records must I keep and make available to EPA?
1051.255
What decisions may EPA make regarding a certificate of conformity?

# Subpart D—Testing Production-Line Vehicles and Engines
1051.301
When must I test my production-line vehicles or engines?
1051.305
How must I prepare and test my production-line vehicles or engines?
1051.310
How must I select vehicles or engines for production-line testing?
1051.315
How do I know when my engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
1051.320
What happens if one of my production-line vehicles or engines fails to meet emission standards?
1051.325
What happens if an engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
1051.330
May I sell vehicles from an engine family with a suspended certificate of conformity?
1051.335
How do I ask EPA to reinstate my suspended certificate?
1051.340
When may EPA revoke my certificate under this subpart and how may I sell these vehicles again?
1051.345
What production-line testing records must I send to EPA?
1051.350
What records must I keep?
Subpart E—Testing In-Use Engines [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Test Procedures
1051.501
What procedures must I use to test my vehicles or engines?
1051.505
What special provisions apply for testing snowmobiles?
1051.510
What special provisions apply for testing ATV engines? [Reserved]
1051.515
How do I test my fuel tank for permeation emissions?
1051.520
How do I perform exhaust durability testing?

# Subpart G—Compliance Provisions
1051.601
What compliance provisions apply to vehicles and engines subject to this part?
1051.605
What provisions apply to engines already certified under the motor vehicle program or the Large Spark-ignition program?
1051.610
What provisions apply to vehicles already certified under the motor vehicle program?
1051.615
What are the special provisions for certifying small recreational engines?
1051.620
When may a manufacturer obtain an exemption for competition recreational vehicles?
1051.625
What special provisions apply to unique snowmobile designs for small-volume manufacturers?
1051.630
What special provisions apply to unique snowmobile designs for all manufacturers?
1051.635
What provisions apply to new manufacturers that are small businesses?
1051.640
What special provisions apply for custom off-highway motorcycles that are similar to highway motorcycles?
1051.645
What special provisions apply to branded engines?
1051.650
What special provisions apply for converting a vehicle to use an alternate fuel?

# Subpart H—Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
1051.701
General provisions.
1051.705
How do I average emission levels?
1051.710
How do I generate and bank emission credits?
1051.715
How do I trade emission credits?
1051.720
How do I calculate my average emission level or emission credits?
1051.725
What must I include in my applications for certification?
1051.730
What ABT reports must I send to EPA?
1051.735
What records must I keep?
1051.740
Are there special averaging provisions for snowmobiles?
1051.745
What can happen if I do not comply with the provisions of this subpart?

# Subpart I—Definitions and Other Reference Information
1051.801
What definitions apply to this part?
1051.805
What symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations does this part use?
1051.815
What provisions apply to confidential information?
1051.820
How do I request a hearing?
1051.825
What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.

# Source:
67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Overview and Applicability
§ 1051.1
Does this part apply for my vehicles or engines?
(a) The regulations in this part 1051 apply for all the following new recreational vehicles or new engines used in the following recreational vehicles, except as provided in § 1051.5:
(1) Snowmobiles.
(2) Off-highway motorcycles.
(3) All-terrain vehicles (ATVs).
(4) Offroad utility vehicles with engines with displacement less than or equal to 1000 cc, maximum engine power less than or equal to 30 kW, and maximum vehicle speed higher than 25 miles per hour. Offroad utility vehicles that are subject to this part are subject to the same requirements as ATVs. This means that any requirement that applies to ATVs also applies to these offroad utility vehicles, without regard to whether the regulatory language mentions offroad utility vehicles.
(b) In certain cases, the regulations in this part 1051 apply to new engines under 50 cc used in motorcycles that are motor vehicles. See 40 CFR 86.447-2006 or 86.448-2006 for provisions related to this allowance.
(c) This part 1051 applies for new recreational vehicles starting in the 2006 model year, except as described in subpart B of this part. You need not follow this part for vehicles you produce before the 2006 model year, unless you certify voluntarily. See §§ 1051.103 through 1051.110, § 1051.145, and the definition of “model year” in § 1051.801 for more information about the timing of the requirements.
(d) The requirements of this part begin to apply when a vehicle is new. See the definition of “new” in § 1051.801 for more information. In some cases, vehicles or engines that have been previously used may be considered “new” for the purposes of this part.
(e) The evaporative emission requirements of this part apply to highway motorcycles, as specified in 40 CFR part 86, subpart E.
[70 FR 40486, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59245, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.2
Who is responsible for compliance?
The regulations in this part 1051 contain provisions that affect both vehicle manufacturers and others. However, the requirements of this part are generally addressed to the vehicle manufacturer. The term “you” generally means the vehicle manufacturer, as defined in § 1051.801, especially for issues related to certification (including production-line testing, reporting, etc.).
[73 FR 59245, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.5
Which engines are excluded from this part's requirements?
(a)(1) You may exclude vehicles with compression-ignition engines. See 40 CFR parts 89 and 1039 for regulations that cover these engines.
(2) Vehicles with a combined total vehicle dry weight under 20.0 kilograms are excluded from this part. Spark-ignition engines in these vehicles must instead meet emission standards specified in 40 CFR parts 90 and 1054. See 40 CFR 90.103(a) and the definition of
handheld
in 40 CFR 1054.801.
(b) We may require you to label an engine or vehicle (or both) if this section excludes it and other requirements in this chapter do not apply.
[70 FR 40486, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59245, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.10
How is this part organized?
This part 1051 is divided into the following subparts:
(a) Subpart A of this part defines the applicability of part 1051 and gives an overview of regulatory requirements.
(b) Subpart B of this part describes the emission standards and other requirements that must be met to certify engines under this part. Note that § 1051.145 discusses certain interim requirements and compliance provisions that apply only for a limited time.
(c) Subpart C of this part describes how to apply for a certificate of conformity.
(d) Subpart D of this part describes general provisions for testing production-line engines.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) Subpart F of this part describes how to test your engines (including references to other parts of the Code of Federal Regulations).
(g) Subpart G of this part and 40 CFR part 1068 describe requirements, prohibitions, and other provisions that apply to engine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, owners, operators, rebuilders, and all others.
(h) Subpart H of this part describes how you may generate and use emission credits to certify your engines.
(i) Subpart I of this part contains definitions and other reference information.
[70 FR 40486, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59245, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.15
Do any other regulation parts apply to me?
(a) Parts 86 and 1065 of this chapter describe procedures and equipment specifications for testing vehicles and engines to measure exhaust emissions. Subpart F of this part 1051 describes how to apply the provisions of parts 86 and 1065 of this chapter to determine whether vehicles meet the exhaust emission standards in this part.
(b) Part 1060 of this chapter describes standards and procedures that optionally apply for controlling evaporative emissions from engines fueled by gasoline or other volatile liquid fuels and the associated fuel systems.
(c) The requirements and prohibitions of part 1068 of this chapter apply to everyone, including anyone who manufactures, imports, installs, owns, operates, or rebuilds any of the vehicles subject to this part 1051, or vehicles containing these engines. Part 1068 of this chapter describes general provisions, including these seven areas:
(1) Prohibited acts and penalties for manufacturers and others.
(2) Rebuilding and other aftermarket changes.
(3) Exclusions and exemptions for certain vehicles and engines.
(4) Importing vehicles and engines.
(5) Selective enforcement audits of your production.
(6) Defect reporting and recall.
(7) Procedures for hearings.
(d) Other parts of this chapter apply if referenced in this part.
[70 FR 40487, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59245, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23023, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1051.20
May I certify a recreational engine instead of the vehicle?
(a) You may certify engines sold separately from vehicles in either of two cases:
(1) If you manufacture recreational engines but not recreational vehicles, you may ask to certify the engine alone. In your request, explain why you cannot certify the entire vehicle.
(2) If you manufacture complete recreational vehicles containing engines you also sell separately, you may ask to certify all these engines in a single engine family or in separate engine families.
(b) If you certify an engine under this section, you must use the test procedures in subpart F of this part. If the test procedures require vehicle testing, use good engineering judgment to install the engine in an appropriate vehicle for measuring emissions.
(c) If we allow you to certify recreational engines, the vehicles must meet the applicable emission standards (including evaporative emission standards) with the engines installed in the appropriate vehicles. You must prepare installation instructions as described in § 1051.130 and use good engineering judgment so that the engines will meet emission standards after proper installation in the vehicle.
(d) Identify and label engines you produce under this section consistent with the requirements of § 1051.135. On the emission control information label, identify the manufacturing date of the engine rather than the vehicle.
(e) You may not use the provisions of this section to circumvent or reduce the stringency of this part's standards or other requirements.
(f) If you certify under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you may ask us to allow you to perform production-line testing on the engine. If you certify under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, use good engineering judgment to ensure that these engines are produced in the same manner as the engines you produce for your vehicles, so that your production-line testing results under subpart D of this part would apply to them.
(g) Apply the provisions of 40 CFR part 1068 for engines certified under this section as if they were subject to engine-based standards. For example, you may rely on the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.261 to have vehicle manufacturers install catalysts that you describe in your application for certification.
[70 FR 40489, July 13, 2005, as amended at 75 FR 23023, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1051.25
What requirements apply when installing certified engines in recreational vehicles?
(a) If you manufacture recreational vehicles with engines certified under § 1051.20, you must certify your vehicle with respect to the evaporative emission standards in § 1051.110, but you need not certify the vehicle with respect to exhaust emissions under this part. The vehicle must nevertheless meet all emission standards with the engine installed. You must also label fuel tanks and fuel lines as specified in § 1051.135(d).
(b) You must follow the engine manufacturer's emission-related installation instructions, as described in § 1051.135
and 40 CFR 1068.105. For example, you must use a fuel system that meets the permeation requirements of this part, consistent with the engine manufacturer's instructions.
(c) If you obscure the engine label while installing the engine in the vehicle such that the label cannot be read during normal maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the vehicle as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 59245, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.30
Submission of information.
(a) This part includes various requirements to record data or other information. Refer to § 1051.825 and 40 CFR 1068.25 regarding recordkeeping requirements. Unless we specify otherwise, store these records in any format and on any media and keep them readily available for one year after you send an associated application for certification, or one year after you generate the data if they do not support an application for certification. You must promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. We may review them at any time.
(b) The regulations in § 1051.255 and 40 CFR 1068.101 describe your obligation to report truthful and complete information and the consequences of failing to meet this obligation. This includes information not related to certification.
(c) Send all reports and requests for approval to the Designated Compliance Officer (
see
§ 1051.801).
(d) Any written information we require you to send to or receive from another company is deemed to be a required record under this section. Such records are also deemed to be submissions to EPA. We may require you to send us these records whether or not you are a certificate holder.
[75 FR 23023, Apr. 30, 2010]

# Subpart B—Emission Standards and Related Requirements
§ 1051.101
What emission standards and other requirements must my vehicles meet?
(a) You must show that your vehicles meet the following:
(1) The applicable exhaust emission standards in § 1051.103, § 1051.105, § 1051.107, or § 1051.145.
(i) For snowmobiles, see § 1051.103.
(ii) For off-highway motorcycles, see § 1051.105.
(iii) For all-terrain vehicles and offroad utility vehicles subject to this part, see § 1051.107 and § 1051.145.
(2) The evaporative emission standards in § 1051.110.
(3) All the requirements in § 1051.115.
(b) The certification regulations in subpart C of this part describe how you make this showing.
(c) These standards and requirements apply to all testing, including certification, production-line, and in-use testing.
(d) Other sections in this subpart describe other requirements for manufacturers such as labeling or warranty requirements.
(e) It is important that you read § 1051.145 to determine if there are other interim requirements or interim compliance options that apply for a limited time.
(f) As described in § 1051.1(a)(4), offroad utility vehicles that are subject to this part are subject to the same requirements as ATVs.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40487, July 13, 2005]
§ 1051.103
What are the exhaust emission standards for snowmobiles?
(a) Apply the exhaust emission standards in this section by model year. Measure emissions with the snowmobile test procedures in subpart F of this part.
(1) Follow Table 1 of this section for exhaust emission standards. You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program for HC and CO emissions, as described in subpart H of this part. This requires that you specify a family emission limit for each pollutant you include in the ABT program for each engine family. These family emission limits serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in this section. An engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as
long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meets the applicable emission standards using emission credits, and the vehicles within the family meet the family emission limit. The phase-in values specify the percentage of your U.S.-directed production that must comply with the emission standards for those model years. Calculate this compliance percentage based on a simple count of your U.S.-directed production units within each certified engine family compared with a simple count of your total U.S.-directed production units. Table 1 also shows the maximum value you may specify for a family emission limit, as follows:
Table 1 of § 1051.103—Exhaust Emission Standards for Snowmobiles (g/kW-hr)
Phase
Model year
Phase-in
(percent)
Emission standards
HC
CO
Maximum allowable family emission limits
HC
CO
Phase 1
2006
50
100
275
Phase 1
2007-2009
100
100
275
Phase 2
2010 and 2011
100
75
275
Phase 3
2012 and later
100
(
1
)
(
1
)
150
400
1
See § 1051.103(a)(2).
(2) For Phase 3, the HC and CO standards are defined by a functional relationship. Choose your corporate average HC and CO standards for each year according to the following criteria:
(i) Prior to production, select the HC standard and CO standard (specified as g/kW-hr) so that the combined percent reduction from baseline emission levels is greater than or equal to 100 percent; that is, that the standards comply with the following equation:
ER25JN08.006
(ii) Your corporate average HC standard may not be higher than 75 g/kW-hr.
(iii) Your corporate average CO standard may not be higher than 275 g/kW-hr.
(iv) You may use the averaging and banking provisions of subpart H of this part to show compliance with these HC and CO standards at the end of the model year under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. You must comply with these final corporate average emission standards.
(b) The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for snowmobiles using the fuel type on which they are designed to operate. You must meet the numerical emission standards for hydrocarbons in this section based on the following types of hydrocarbon emissions for snowmobiles powered by the following fuels:
(1) Natural gas-fueled snowmobiles: NMHC emissions.
(2) Alcohol-fueled snowmobiles: THCE emissions.
(3) Other snowmobiles: THC emissions.
(c) Your snowmobiles must meet emission standards over their full useful life. The minimum useful life is 8,000 kilometers, 400 hours of engine operation, or five calendar years, whichever comes first. You must specify a longer useful life in terms of kilometers and hours for the engine family if the average service life of your vehicles is longer than the minimum value, as follows:
(1) Except as allowed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, your useful life (in kilometers and hours) may not be less than either of the following:
(i) Your projected operating life from advertisements or other marketing materials for any vehicles in the engine family.
(ii) Your basic mechanical warranty for any engines in the engine family.
(2) Your useful life may be based on the average service life of vehicles in the engine family if you show that the average service life is less than the useful life required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, but more than the minimum useful life (8,000 kilometers or 400 hours of engine operation). In determining the actual average service life of vehicles in an engine family, we will consider all available information and analyses. Survey data is allowed but not required to make this showing.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40487, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 35951, June 25, 2008; 73 FR 59246, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.105
What are the exhaust emission standards for off-highway motorcycles?
(a) Apply the exhaust emission standards in this section by model year. Measure emissions with the off-highway motorcycle test procedures in subpart F of this part.
(1) Follow Table 1 of this section for exhaust emission standards. You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program for HC + NO
X
and CO emissions, as described in subpart H of this part. This requires that you specify a family emission limit for each pollutant you include in the ABT program for each engine family. These family emission limits serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in this section. An engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meets the applicable emission standards using emission credits, and the vehicles within the family meet the family emission limit. The phase-in values specify the percentage of your U.S.-directed production that must comply with the emission standards for those model years. Calculate this compliance percentage based on a simple count of your U.S.-directed production units within each certified engine family compared with a simple count of your total U.S.-directed production units. Table 1 follows:
Table 1 of § 1051.105—Exhaust Emission Standards for Off-Highway Motorcycles (g/km)
Phase
Model year
Phase-in (percent)
Emission standards
HC + NO
X
CO
Maximum allowable family emission limits
HC + NO
X
CO
Phase 1
2006
50
2.0
25
20.0
50
2007 and later
100
2.0
25
20.0
50
(2) For model years 2007 and later you may choose to certify all of your off-highway motorcycles to an HC + NO
X
standard of 4.0 g/km and a CO standard of 35 g/km, instead of the standards listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. To certify to the standards in this paragraph (a)(2), you must comply with the following provisions:
(i) You may not request an exemption for any off-highway motorcycles under § 1051.620
(ii) At least ten percent of your off-highway motorcycles for the model year must have four of the following features:
(A) The absence of a headlight or other lights.
(B) The absence of a spark arrestor.
(C) The absence of manufacturer warranty.
(D) Suspension travel greater than 10 inches.
(E) Engine displacement greater than 50 cc.
(F) The absence of a functional seat.
(iii) You may use the averaging and banking provisions of subpart H of this part to show compliance with this HC +
NO
X
standard, but not this CO standard. If you use the averaging or banking provisions to show compliance, your FEL for HC + NO
X
may not exceed 8.0 g/km for any engine family. You may not use the trading provisions of subpart H of this part.
(3) You may certify off-highway motorcycles with engines that have total displacement of 70 cc or less to the exhaust emission standards in § 1051.615 instead of certifying them to the exhaust emission standards of this section. Count all such vehicles in the phase-in (percent) requirements of this section.
(b) The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for off-highway motorcycles using the fuel type on which they are designed to operate. You must meet the numerical emission standards for hydrocarbons in this section based on the following types of hydrocarbon emissions for off-highway motorcycles powered by the following fuels:
(1) Natural gas-fueled off-highway motorcycles: NMHC emissions.
(2) Alcohol-fueled off-highway motorcycles: THCE emissions.
(3) Other off-highway motorcycles: THC emissions.
(c) Your off-highway motorcycles must meet emission standards over their full useful life. For off-highway motorcycles with engines that have total displacement greater than 70 cc, the minimum useful life is 10,000 kilometers or five years, whichever comes first. For off-highway motorcycles with engines that have total displacement of 70 cc or less, the minimum useful life is 5,000 kilometers or five years, whichever comes first. You must specify a longer useful life for the engine family in terms of kilometers if the average service life of your vehicles is longer than the minimum value, as follows:
(1) Except as allowed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, your useful life (in kilometers) may not be less than either of the following:
(i) Your projected operating life from advertisements or other marketing materials for any vehicles in the engine family.
(ii) Your basic mechanical warranty for any engines in the engine family.
(2) Your useful life may be based on the average service life of vehicles in the engine family if you show that the average service life is less than the useful life required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, but more than the minimum useful life (10,000 kilometers). In determining the actual average service life of vehicles in an engine family, we will consider all available information and analyses. Survey data is allowed but not required to make this showing.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40487, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59246, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.107
What are the exhaust emission standards for all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and offroad utility vehicles?
This section specifies the exhaust emission standards that apply to ATVs. As is described in § 1051.1(a)(4), offroad utility vehicles that are subject to this part are subject to these same standards.
(a) Apply the exhaust emission standards in this section by model year. Measure emissions with the ATV test procedures in subpart F of this part.
(1) Follow Table 1 of this section for exhaust emission standards. You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program for HC + NO
X
emissions, as described in subpart H of this part. This requires that you specify a family emission limit for each pollutant you include in the ABT program for each engine family. These family emission limits serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in this section. An engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meets the applicable emission standards using emission credits, and the vehicles within the family meet the family emission limit. Table 1 also shows the maximum value you may specify for a family emission limit. The phase-in values in the table specify the percentage of your total U.S.-directed production that must comply with the
emission standards for those model years.
Calculate this compliance percentage based on a simple count of your U.S.-directed production units within each certified engine family compared with a simple count of your total U.S.-directed production units. This applies to your total production of ATVs and offroad utility vehicles that are subject to the standards of this part; including both ATVs and offroad utility vehicles subject to the standards of this section and ATVs and offroad utility vehicles certified to the standards of other sections in this part 1051 (such as § 1051.615, but not including vehicles certified under other parts in this chapter (such as 40 CFR part 90). Table 1 follows:
Table 1 of § 1051.107—Exhaust Emission Standards for ATVs (g/km)
Phase
Model year
Phase-in
(percent)
Emission standards
HC + NO
X
CO
Maximum allowable family emission limits
HC + NO
X
CO
Phase 1
2006
50
1.5
35
20.0
2007 and later
100
1.5
35
20.0
(2) You may certify ATVs with engines that have total displacement of less than 100 cc to the exhaust emission standards in § 1051.615 instead of certifying them to the exhaust emission standards of this section. Count all such vehicles in the phase-in (percent) requirements of this section.
(b) The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for ATVs using the fuel type on which they are designed to operate. You must meet the numerical emission standards for hydrocarbons in this section based on the following types of hydrocarbon emissions for ATVs powered by the following fuels:
(1) Natural gas-fueled ATVs: NMHC emissions.
(2) Alcohol-fueled ATVs: THCE emissions.
(3) Other ATVs: THC emissions.
(c) Your ATVs must meet emission standards over their full useful life. For ATVs with engines that have total displacement of 100 cc or greater, the minimum useful life is 10,000 kilometers, 1000 hours of engine operation, or five years, whichever comes first. For ATVs with engines that have total displacement of less than 100 cc, the minimum useful life is 5,000 kilometers, 500 hours of engine operation, or five years, whichever comes first. You must specify a longer useful life for the engine family in terms of kilometers and hours if the average service life of your vehicles is longer than the minimum value, as follows:
(1) Except as allowed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, your useful life (in kilometers) may not be less than either of the following:
(i) Your projected operating life from advertisements or other marketing materials for any vehicles in the engine family.
(ii) Your basic mechanical warranty for any engines in the engine family.
(2) Your useful life may be based on the average service life of vehicles in the engine family if you show that the average service life is less than the useful life required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, but more than the minimum useful life (10,000 kilometers or 1,000 hours of engine operation). In determining the actual average service life of vehicles in an engine family, we will consider all available information and analyses. Survey data is allowed but not required to make this showing.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40488, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59246, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.110
What evaporative emission standards must my vehicles meet?
Your new vehicles that run on a volatile liquid fuel (such as gasoline) must meet the emission standards of this section over their full useful life. Note that § 1051.245 allows you to use design-based certification instead of generating new emission data.
(a) Beginning with the 2008 model year, permeation emissions from your vehicle's fuel tank(s) may not exceed
1.5 grams per square-meter per day when measured with the test procedures for tank permeation in subpart F of this part. You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program, as described in subpart H of this part.
(b) Beginning with the 2008 model year, permeation emissions from your vehicle's fuel lines may not exceed 15 grams per square-meter per day when measured with the test procedures for fuel-line permeation in subpart F of this part. Use the inside diameter of the hose to determine the surface area of the hose.
(c) You may certify your fuel tanks and fuel lines under the provisions of 40 CFR part 1060. You may also specify in your application for certification that you are using components that have been certified by the component manufacturer.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40488, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59246, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.115
What other requirements apply?
Vehicles that are required to meet the emission standards of this part must meet the following requirements:
(a)
Closed crankcase.
Crankcase emissions may not be discharged directly into the ambient atmosphere from any vehicle throughout its useful life.
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Adjustable parameters.
Vehicles that have adjustable parameters must meet all the requirements of this part for any adjustment in the practically adjustable range. Note that parameters that control the air-fuel ratio may be treated separately under paragraph (d) of this section. We may require that you set adjustable parameters to any specification within the practically adjustable range during any testing, including certification testing, production-line testing, or in-use testing. General provisions for adjustable parameters apply as specified in 40 CFR 1068.50.
(d)
Other adjustments.
The following provisions apply for engines with carburetor jets or needles, and for engines with any other technology involving service to adjust air-fuel ratio that falls within the time and cost specifications of 40 CFR 1068.50(d)(1):
(1) In your application for certification, specify the practically adjustable range of air-fuel ratios you expect to occur in use. You may specify it in terms of engine parts (such as the carburetor jet size and needle configuration as a function of atmospheric conditions).
(2) The practically adjustable range specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section must include all air-fuel ratios between the lean limit and the rich limit, unless you can show that some air-fuel ratios will not occur in use.
(i) The lean limit is the air-fuel ratio that produces the highest engine power output (averaged over the test cycle).
(ii) The rich limit is the richest of the following air-fuel ratios:
(A) The air-fuel ratio that would result from operating the vehicle as you produce it at the specified test conditions. This paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) does not apply if you produce the vehicle with an unjetted carburetor so that the vehicle must be jetted by the dealer or operator.
(B) The air-fuel ratio of the engine when you do durability testing.
(C) The richest air-fuel ratio that you recommend to your customers for the applicable ambient conditions.
(3) If the air-fuel ratio of your vehicle is adjusted primarily by changing the carburetor jet size and/or needle configuration, you may submit your recommended jetting chart instead of the range of air-fuel ratios required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section if the following criteria are met:
(i) Good engineering judgment indicates that vehicle operators would not have an incentive to operate the vehicle with richer air-fuel ratios than recommended.
(ii) The chart is based on use of a fuel that is equivalent to the specified test fuel(s). As an alternative you may submit a chart based on a representative in-use fuel if you also provide instructions for converting the chart to be applicable to the test fuel(s).
(iii) The chart is specified in units that are adequate to make it practical for an operator to keep the vehicle properly jetted during typical use. For example, charts that specify jet sizes
based on increments of temperature smaller than 20 °F (11.1 °C) or increments of altitude less than 2000 feet would not meet this criteria. Temperature ranges must overlap by at least 5 °F (2.8 °C).
(iv) You follow the jetting chart for durability testing.
(v) You do not produce your vehicles with jetting richer than the jetting chart recommendation for the intended vehicle use.
(vi) The adjustable range of carburetor screws, such as air screw, fuel screw, and idle-speed screw must be defined by stops, limits, or specification on the jetting chart consistent with the requirements for specifying jet sizes and needle configuration in this section.
(4) We may require you to adjust the engine to any specification within the adjustable range during certification testing, production-line testing, selective enforcement auditing, or in-use testing. If we allow you to submit your recommended jetting chart instead of the range of air-fuel ratios required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, adjust the engine to the richest specification within the jetting chart for the test conditions, unless we specify a leaner setting. We may not specify a setting leaner than that described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(e)
Prohibited controls.
You may not design your engines with emission control devices, systems, or elements of design that cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety while operating. For example, an engine may not emit a noxious or toxic substance it would otherwise not emit that contributes to such an unreasonable risk.
(f)
Defeat devices.
You may not equip your vehicles with a defeat device. A defeat device is an auxiliary emission-control device that reduces the effectiveness of emission controls under conditions that the vehicle may reasonably be expected to encounter during normal operation and use. This does not apply to auxiliary emission-control devices you identify in your certification application if any of the following is true:
(1) The conditions of concern were substantially included in the applicable test procedures described in subpart F of this part.
(2) You show your design is necessary to prevent vehicle damage or accidents.
(3) The reduced effectiveness applies only to starting the engine.
(g)
Noise standards.
There are no noise standards specified in this part 1051. See 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter G, to determine if your vehicle must meet noise emission standards under another part of our regulations.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40488, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59246, Oct. 8, 2008; 88 FR 4666, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1051.120
What emission-related warranty requirements apply to me?
(a)
General requirements.
You must warrant to the ultimate purchaser and each subsequent purchaser that the new engine, including all parts of its emission-control system, meets two conditions:
(1) It is designed, built, and equipped so it conforms at the time of sale to the ultimate purchaser with the requirements of this part.
(2) It is free from defects in materials and workmanship that may keep it from meeting these requirements.
(b)
Warranty period.
Your emission-related warranty must be valid for at least 50 percent of the vehicle's minimum useful life in kilometers or hours of engine operation (where applicable), or at least 30 months, whichever comes first. You may offer an emission-related warranty more generous than we require. The emission-related warranty for the engine may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for the engine. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for that component. If a vehicle has no odometer, base warranty periods in this paragraph (b) only on the vehicle's age (in years). The warranty period begins when the engine is placed into service.
(c)
Components covered.
The emission-related warranty covers all components whose failure would increase an engine's emissions of any regulated pollutant, including components listed in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix I, and
components from any other system you develop to control emissions. The emission-related warranty covers these components even if another company produces the component. Your emission-related warranty does not cover components whose failure would not increase an engine's emissions of any regulated pollutant.
(d)
Limited applicability.
You may deny warranty claims under this section if the operator caused the problem through improper maintenance or use, as described in 40 CFR 1068.115. You may ask us to allow you to exclude from your emission-related warranty certified vehicles that have been used significantly for competition, especially certified motorcycles that meet at least four of the criteria in § 1051.620(b)(1).
(e)
Owners manual.
Describe in the owners manual the emission-related warranty provisions from this section that apply to the engine.
[70 FR 40489, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59246, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.125
What maintenance instructions must I give to buyers?
Give the ultimate purchaser of each new vehicle written instructions for properly maintaining and using the vehicle, including the emission-control system. The maintenance instructions also apply to service accumulation on your emission-data vehicles, as described in § 1051.240, § 1051.245, and 40 CFR part 1065.
(a)
Critical emission-related maintenance.
Critical emission-related maintenance includes any adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of critical emission-related components. This may also include additional emission-related maintenance that you determine is critical if we approve it in advance. You may schedule critical emission-related maintenance on these components if you meet the following conditions:
(1) You demonstrate that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals on in-use vehicles. We will accept scheduled maintenance as reasonably likely to occur if you satisfy any of the following conditions:
(i) You present data showing that, if a lack of maintenance increases emissions, it also unacceptably degrades the vehicle's performance.
(ii) You present survey data showing that at least 80 percent of vehicles in the field get the maintenance you specify at the recommended intervals.
(iii) You provide the maintenance free of charge and clearly say so in your maintenance instructions.
(iv) You otherwise show us that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals.
(2) You may not schedule critical emission-related maintenance within the minimum useful life period for aftertreatment devices, pulse-air valves, fuel injectors, oxygen sensors, electronic control units, superchargers, or turbochargers.
(3) You may ask us to approve a maintenance interval shorter than that specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. In your request you must describe the proposed maintenance step, recommend the maximum feasible interval for this maintenance, include your rationale with supporting evidence to support the need for the maintenance at the recommended interval, and demonstrate that the maintenance will be done at the recommended interval on in-use engines. In considering your request, we will evaluate the information you provide and any other available information to establish alternate specifications for maintenance intervals, if appropriate.
(b)
Recommended additional maintenance.
You may recommend any additional amount of maintenance on the components listed in paragraph (a) of this section, as long as you state clearly that these maintenance steps are not necessary to keep the emission-related warranty valid. If operators do the maintenance specified in paragraph (a) of this section, but not the recommended additional maintenance, this does not allow you to disqualify those vehicles from in-use testing or deny a warranty claim. Do not take these maintenance steps during service accumulation on your emission-data vehicles.
(c)
Special maintenance.
You may specify more frequent maintenance to
address problems related to special situations, such as atypical engine operation. You must clearly state that this additional maintenance is associated with the special situation you are addressing. We may disapprove your maintenance instructions if we determine that you have specified special maintenance steps to address engine operation that is not atypical, or that the maintenance is unlikely to occur in use. If we determine that certain maintenance items do not qualify as special maintenance under this paragraph (c), you may identify this as recommended additional maintenance under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Noncritical emission-related maintenance.
Subject to the provisions of this paragraph (d), you may schedule any amount of emission-related inspection or maintenance that is not covered by paragraph (a) of this section (i.e., maintenance that is neither explicitly identified as critical emission-related maintenance, nor that we approve as critical emission-related maintenance). Noncritical emission-related maintenance generally includes changing spark plugs, re-seating valves, or any other emission-related maintenance on the components we specify in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix I that is not covered in paragraph (a) of this section. You must state in the owner's manual that these steps are not necessary to keep the emission-related warranty valid. If operators fail to do this maintenance, this does not allow you to disqualify those vehicles from in-use testing or deny a warranty claim. Do not take these inspection or maintenance steps during service accumulation on your emission-data vehicles.
(e)
Maintenance that is not emission-related.
For maintenance unrelated to emission controls, you may schedule any amount of inspection or maintenance. You may also take these inspection or maintenance steps during service accumulation on your emission-data vehicles, as long as they are reasonable and technologically necessary. This might include adding engine oil, changing air, fuel, or oil filters, servicing engine-cooling systems, and adjusting idle speed, governor, engine bolt torque, valve lash, or injector lash, or adjusting chain tension, clutch position, or tire pressure. You may perform this nonemission-related maintenance on emission-data vehicles at the least frequent intervals that you recommend to the ultimate purchaser (but not the intervals recommended for severe service). You may also visually inspect test vehicles or engines, including emission-related components, as needed to ensure safe operation.
(f)
Source of parts and repairs.
State clearly on the first page of your written maintenance instructions that a repair shop or person of the owner's choosing may maintain, replace, or repair emission-control devices and systems. Your instructions may not require components or service identified by brand, trade, or corporate name. Also, do not directly or indirectly condition your warranty on a requirement that the vehicle be serviced by your franchised dealers or any other service establishments with which you have a commercial relationship. You may disregard the requirements in this paragraph (f) if you do one of two things:
(1) Provide a component or service without charge under the purchase agreement.
(2) Get us to waive this prohibition in the public's interest by convincing us the vehicle will work properly only with the identified component or service.
(g)
Payment for scheduled maintenance.
Owners are responsible for properly maintaining their vehicles. This generally includes paying for scheduled maintenance. However, manufacturers must pay for scheduled maintenance during the useful life if it meets all the following criteria:
(1) Each affected component was not in general use on similar vehicles before the 2006 model year.
(2) The primary function of each affected component is to reduce emissions.
(3) The cost of the scheduled maintenance is more than 2 percent of the price of the vehicle.
(4) Failure to perform the maintenance would not cause clear problems that would significantly degrade the vehicle's performance.
(h)
Owners manual.
Explain the owner's responsibility for proper maintenance in the owners manual.
[70 FR 40489, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59246, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23023, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1051.130
What installation instructions must I give to vehicle manufacturers?
(a) If you sell an engine for someone else to install in a piece of nonroad equipment, give the engine installer instructions for installing it consistent with the requirements of this part. Include all information necessary to ensure that an engine will be installed in its certified configuration.
(b) Make sure these instructions have the following information:
(1) Include the heading: “Emission-related installation instructions”.
(2) State: “Failing to follow these instructions when installing a certified engine in a piece of nonroad equipment violates federal law (40 CFR 1068.105(b)), subject to fines or other penalties as described in the Clean Air Act.”.
(3) Describe the instructions needed to properly install the exhaust system and any other components. Include instructions consistent with the requirements of § 1051.205(r).
(4) Describe the steps needed to comply with the evaporative emission standards in § 1051.110.
(5) Describe any limits on the range of applications needed to ensure that the engine operates consistently with your application for certification. For example, if your engines are certified only to the snowmobile standards, tell vehicle manufacturers not to install the engines in other vehicles.
(6) Describe any other instructions to make sure the installed engine will operate according to design specifications in your application for certification. This may include, for example, instructions for installing aftertreatment devices when installing the engines.
(7) State: “If you install the engine in a way that makes the engine's emission control information label hard to read during normal engine maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the vehicle, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.”.
(c) You do not need installation instructions for engines you install in your own vehicles.
(d) Provide instructions in writing or in an equivalent format. For example, you may post instructions on a publicly available Web site for downloading or printing. If you do not provide the instructions in writing, explain in your application for certification how you will ensure that each installer is informed of the installation requirements.
[70 FR 40490, July 13, 2005]
§ 1051.135
How must I label and identify the vehicles I produce?
Each of your vehicles must have three labels: a vehicle identification number as described in paragraph (a) of this section, an emission control information label as described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, and a consumer information label as described in § 1051.137.
(a) Assign each vehicle a unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp it on the vehicle in a legible way.
(b) At the time of manufacture, affix a permanent and legible emission control information label identifying each vehicle. The label must be
(1) Attached so it is not removable without being destroyed or defaced.
(2) Secured to a part of the vehicle (or engine) needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.
(3) Durable and readable for the vehicle's entire life.
(4) Written in English.
(c) The label must—
(1) Include the heading “EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the provisions of § 1051.645.
(3) Include EPA's standardized designation for engine families, as described in § 1051.230.
(4) State the engine's displacement (in liters). You may omit this from the emission control information label if the vehicle is permanently labeled with a unique model name that corresponds to a specific displacement. Also, you
may omit displacement from the label if all the engines in the engine family have the same per-cylinder displacement and total displacement.
(5) State: “THIS VEHICLE IS CERTIFIED TO OPERATE ON [specify operating fuel or fuels].”.
(6) State the date of manufacture [DAY (optional), MONTH, and YEAR]; however, you may omit this from the label if you stamp, engrave, or otherwise permanently identify it elsewhere on the vehicle or engine, in which case you must also describe in your application for certification where you will identify the date on the vehicle or engine.
(7) State the exhaust emission standards or FELs to which the vehicles are certified (in g/km or g/kW-hr). Also, state the FEL that applies for the fuel tank if it is different than the otherwise applicable standard.
(8) Identify the emission-control system. Use terms and abbreviations as described in 40 CFR 1068.45. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owner's manual instead.
(9) List specifications and adjustments for engine tuneups; show the proper position for the transmission during tuneup and state which accessories should be operating.
(10) Identify the fuel type and any requirements for fuel and lubricants. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.
(11) State the useful life for your engine family if it is different than the minimum value.
(12) State: “THIS VEHICLE MEETS U.S. EPA REGULATIONS FOR [MODEL YEAR] [SNOWMOBILES or OFF-ROAD MOTORCYCLES or ATVs or OFFROAD UTILITY VEHICLES].”
(13) Identify evaporative emission controls as specified in 40 CFR 1060.135.
(d) You may add information to the emission control information label to identify other emission standards that the vehicle meets or does not meet (such as California standards). You may also add other information to ensure that the engine will be properly maintained and used.
(e) You may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part 1051 if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is consistent with the requirements of this part.
(f) [Reserved]
(g) Label every vehicle certified under this part with a removable hang-tag showing its emission characteristics relative to other models, as described in § 1051.137.
[70 FR 40490, July 13, 2005, as amended at 59246, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23024, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1051.137
What are the consumer labeling requirements?
Label every vehicle certified under this part with a removable hang-tag showing its emission characteristics relative to other models. The label should be attached securely to the vehicle before it is offered for sale in such a manner that it would not be accidentally removed prior to sale. Use the applicable equations of this section to determine the normalized emission rate (NER) from the FEL for your vehicle. If the vehicle is certified without a family emission limit that is different than the otherwise applicable standard, use the final deteriorated emission level. Round the resulting normalized emission rate for your vehicle to one decimal place. If the calculated NER value is less than zero, consider NER to be zero for that vehicle. We may specify a standardized format for labels. At a minimum, the tag should include: the manufacturer's name, vehicle model name, engine description (500 cc two-stroke with DFI), the NER, and a brief explanation of the scale (for example, note that 0 is the cleanest and 10 is the least clean).
(a) For snowmobiles, use the following equation:
NER = 16.61 × log (2.667 × HC + CO)−38.22
Where:
HC and CO are the cycle-weighted FELs (or emission rates) for hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide in g/kW-hr.
(b) For off-highway motorcycles, use the following equations:
(1) For off-highway motorcycles certified to the standards in § 1051.105, use one of the equations specified below.
(i) If the vehicle has HC + NO
X
emissions less than or equal to 2.0 g/km, use the following equation:
NER = 2.500 × (HC + NO
X
)
Where:
HC + NO
X
is the FEL (or the sum of the cycle-weighted emission rates) for hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen in g/km.
(ii) If the vehicle has HC + NO
X
emissions greater than 2.0 g/km, use the following equation:
NER = 5.000 × log(HC + NO
X
) + 3.495
Where:
HC + NO
X
is the FEL (or the sum of the cycle-weighted emission rates) for hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen in g/km.
(2) For off-highway motorcycles certified to the standards in § 1051.615(b), use the following equation:
NER = 8.782 × log(HC + NO
X
) −5.598
Where:
HC + NO
X
is the FEL (or the sum of the cycle-weighted emission rates) for hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen in g/kW-hr.
(c) For ATVs, use the following equations:
(1) For ATVs certified to the standards in § 1051.107, use one of the equations specified below.
(i) If the vehicle has HC + NO
X
emissions less than or equal to 1.5 g/km, use the following equation:
NER = 3.333 × (HC + NO
X
)
Where:
HC + NO
X
is the FEL (or the sum of the cycle-weighted emission rates) for hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen in g/km.
(ii) If the vehicle has HC + NO
X
emissions greater than 1.5 g/km, use the following equation:
NER = 4.444 × log(HC + NO
X
) + 4.217
Where:
HC + NO
X
is the FEL (or the sum of the cycle-weighted emission rates) for hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen in g/km.
(2) For ATVs certified to the standards in § 1051.615(a), use the following equation:
NER = 8.782 × log(HC + NO
X
) −7.277
Where:
HC + NO
X
is the FEL (or the sum of the cycle-weighted emission rates) for hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen in g/kW-hr.
[70 FR 40491, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59246, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.140
What is my vehicle's maximum engine power and displacement?
This section describes how to quantify your vehicle's maximum engine power and displacement for the purposes of this part.
(a) An engine configuration's maximum engine power is the maximum brake power point on the nominal power curve for the engine configuration, as defined in this section. Round the power value to the nearest 0.5 kilowatts. The nominal power curve of an engine configuration is the relationship between maximum available engine brake power and engine speed for an engine, using the mapping procedures of 40 CFR part 1065, based on the manufacturer's design and production specifications for the engine. This information may also be expressed by a torque curve that relates maximum available engine torque with engine speed.
(b) An engine configuration's displacement is the intended swept volume of the engine rounded to the nearest cubic centimeter. The swept volume of the engine is the product of the internal cross-section area of the cylinders, the stroke length, and the number of cylinders. For example, for a one-cylinder engine with a circular cylinder having an internal diameter of 6.00 cm and a 6.25 cm stroke length, the rounded displacement would be: (1) × (6.00/2)
2
× (π) × (6.25) = 177 cc. Calculate the engine's intended swept volume from the design specifications for the cylinders using enough significant figures to allow determination of the displacement to the nearest 0.1 cc.
(c) The nominal power curve and intended swept volume must be within the range of the actual power curves and swept volumes of production engines considering normal production variability. If after production begins it is determined that either your nominal power curve or your intended swept
volume does not represent production engines, we may require you to amend your application for certification under § 1051.225.
[73 FR 59247, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.145
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Certifying Engine Families
§ 1051.201
What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity?
(a) You must send us a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each engine family. A certificate of conformity is valid starting with the indicated effective date, but it is not valid for any production after December 31 of the model year for which it is issued. No certificate will be issued after December 31 of the model year.
(b) The application must contain all the information required by this part and must not include false or incomplete statements or information (see § 1051.255).
(c) We may ask you to include less information than we specify in this subpart, as long as you maintain all the information required by § 1051.250.
(d) You must use good engineering judgment for all decisions related to your application (see 40 CFR 1068.5).
(e) An authorized representative of your company must approve and sign the application.
(f) See § 1051.255 for provisions describing how we will process your application.
(g) We may require you to deliver your test vehicles or engines to a facility we designate for our testing (see § 1051.235(c)).
(h) For vehicles that become new after being placed into service, such as vehicles converted to run on a different fuel, we may specify alternate certification provisions consistent with the intent of this part.
See
§ 1051.650 and the definition of “new” in § 1051.801.
[70 FR 40492, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59248, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23024, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1051.205
What must I include in my application?
This section specifies the information that must be in your application, unless we ask you to include less information under § 1051.201(c). We may require you to provide additional information to evaluate your application.
(a) Describe the engine family's specifications and other basic parameters of the vehicle's design and emission controls. List the fuel type on which your engines are designed to operate (for example, gasoline, liquefied petroleum gas, methanol, or natural gas). List vehicle configurations and model names that are included in the engine family.
(b) Explain how the emission control systems operate. Describe the evaporative emission controls. Also describe in detail all system components for controlling exhaust emissions, including all auxiliary emission control devices (AECDs) and all fuel-system components you will install on any production or test vehicle or engine. Identify the part number of each component you describe. For this paragraph (b), treat as separate AECDs any devices that modulate or activate differently from each other. Include sufficient detail to allow us to evaluate whether the AECDs are consistent with the defeat device prohibition of § 1051.115.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Describe the vehicles or engines you selected for testing and the reasons for selecting them.
(e) Describe the test equipment and procedures that you used, including any special or alternate test procedures you used (see § 1051.501).
(f) Describe how you operated the emission-data vehicle before testing, including the duty cycle and the extent of engine operation used to stabilize emission levels. Explain why you selected the method of service accumulation. Describe any scheduled maintenance you did.
(g) List the specifications of the test fuel to show that it falls within the required ranges we specify in 40 CFR part 1065.
(h) Identify the engine family's useful life.
(i) Include the maintenance instructions you will give to the ultimate purchaser of each new vehicle (see § 1051.125).
(j) Include the emission-related installation instructions you will provide if someone else installs your engines in a vehicle (see § 1051.130).
(k) Describe the labels you create to meet the requirements of § 1051.135.
(l) Identify the exhaust emission standards or FELs to which you are certifying engines in the engine family.
(m) Identify the engine family's deterioration factors and describe how you developed them (see § 1051.243 and § 1051.245). Present any emission test data you used for this.
(n) State that you operated your emission-data vehicles as described in the application (including the test procedures, test parameters, and test fuels) to show you meet the requirements of this part.
(o) Present emission data to show that you meet emission standards, as follows:
(1) Present exhaust emission data for hydrocarbons (such as NMHC or THCE, as applicable), NO
X
, and CO on an emission-data vehicle to show your vehicles meet the exhaust emission standards as specified in subpart B of this part. Show emission figures before and after applying deterioration factors for each vehicle or engine. If we specify more than one grade of any fuel type (for example, a summer grade and winter grade of gasoline), you need to submit test data only for one grade unless the regulations of this part specify otherwise for your engine.
(2) Present evaporative test data for hydrocarbons to show your vehicles meet the evaporative emission standards we specify in subpart B of this part. Show emission figures before and after applying deterioration factors for each vehicle or engine, where applicable. If you did not perform the testing, identify the source of the test data.
(3) Note that § 1051.235 and § 1051.245 allow you to submit an application in certain cases without new emission data.
(p) Report test results as follows:
(1) Report all test results involving measurement of pollutants for which emission standards apply. Include test results from invalid tests or from any other tests, whether or not they were conducted according to the test procedures of subpart F of this part. We may ask you to send other information to confirm that your tests were valid under the requirements of this part and 40 CFR parts 86 and 1065.
(2) Report measured CO
2
, N
2
O, and CH
4
as described in § 1051.235. Small-volume manufacturers may omit reporting N
2
O and CH
4
.
(q) Describe all adjustable operating parameters (see § 1051.115(e)), including production tolerances. For any operating parameters that do not qualify as adjustable parameters, include a description supporting your conclusion (see 40 CFR 1068.50(c)). Include the following in your description of each adjustable parameter:
(1) For practically adjustable parameters, include the nominal or recommended setting, the intended practically adjustable range, and the limits or stops used to establish adjustable ranges. State that the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended practically adjustable ranges and provide information to support this statement.
(2) For programmable operating parameters, state that you have restricted access to electronic controls to prevent parameter adjustments on in-use engines that would allow operation outside the practically adjustable range. Describe how your engines are designed to prevent unauthorized adjustments.
(r) Confirm that your emission-related installation instructions specify how to ensure that sampling of exhaust emissions will be possible after engines are installed in equipment and placed in service. If this cannot be done by simply adding a 20-centimeter extension to the exhaust pipe, show how to sample exhaust emissions in a way that prevents diluting the exhaust sample with ambient air.
(s) Unconditionally certify that all the vehicles and/or engines in the engine family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.
(t) Include good-faith estimates of U.S.-directed production volumes. Include a justification for the estimated production volumes if they are substantially different than actual production volumes in earlier years for similar models.
(u) Include the information required by other subparts of this part. For example, include the information required by § 1051.725 if you participate in the ABT program.
(v) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or 40 CFR part 1068 related to requests for exemptions.
(w) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.
[70 FR 40493, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59248, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 56510, Oct. 30, 2009; 88 FR 4666, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1051.210
May I get preliminary approval before I complete my application?
If you send us information before you finish the application, we will review it and make any appropriate determinations, especially for questions related to engine family definitions, auxiliary emission-control devices, deterioration factors, testing for service accumulation, and maintenance. Decisions made under this section are considered to be preliminary approval, subject to final review and approval. We will generally not reverse a decision where we have given you preliminary approval, unless we find new information supporting a different decision. If you request preliminary approval related to the upcoming model year or the model year after that, we will make best-efforts to make the appropriate determinations as soon as practicable. We will generally not provide preliminary approval related to a future model year more than two years ahead of time.
[70 FR 40494, July 13, 2005]
§ 1051.220
How do I amend the maintenance instructions in my application?
You may amend your emission-related maintenance instructions after you submit your application for certification as long as the amended instructions remain consistent with the provisions of § 1051.125. You must send the Designated Compliance Officer a request to amend your application for certification for an engine family if you want to change the emission-related maintenance instructions in a way that could affect emissions. In your request, describe the proposed changes to the maintenance instructions. If operators follow the original maintenance instructions rather than the newly specified maintenance, this does not allow you to disqualify those engines from in-use testing or deny a warranty claim.
(a) If you are decreasing or eliminating any specified maintenance, you may distribute the new maintenance instructions to your customers 30 days after we receive your request, unless we disapprove your request. This would generally include replacing one maintenance step with another. We may approve a shorter time or waive this requirement.
(b) If your requested change would not decrease the specified maintenance, you may distribute the new maintenance instructions anytime after you send your request. For example, this paragraph (b) would cover adding instructions to increase the frequency of a maintenance step for engines in severe-duty applications.
(c) You need not request approval if you are making only minor corrections (such as correcting typographical mistakes), clarifying your maintenance instructions, or changing instructions for maintenance unrelated to emission control. We may ask you to send us copies of maintenance instructions revised under this paragraph (c).
[70 FR 40494, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59248, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23024, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1051.225
How do I amend my application for certification to include new or modified vehicle configurations or to change an FEL?
Before we issue you a certificate of conformity, you may amend your application to include new or modified vehicle configurations, subject to the provisions of this section. After we have issued your certificate of conformity, you may send us an amended application requesting that we include new or modified vehicle configurations within the scope of the certificate, subject to the provisions of this section. You must amend your application if any changes occur with respect to any information included in your application.
(a) You must amend your application before you take any of the following actions:
(1) Add a vehicle configuration to an engine family. In this case, the vehicle configuration added must be consistent with other vehicle configurations in the engine family with respect to the criteria listed in § 1051.230.
(2) Change a vehicle configuration already included in an engine family in a way that may affect emissions, or change any of the components you described in your application for certification. This includes production and design changes that may affect emissions any time during the engine's lifetime.
(3) Modify an FEL for an engine family, as described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(b) To amend your application for certification, send the Designated Compliance Officer the following information:
(1) Describe in detail the addition or change in the vehicle model or configuration you intend to make.
(2) Include engineering evaluations or data showing that the amended engine family complies with all applicable requirements. You may do this by showing that the original emission-data vehicle is still appropriate for showing that the amended family complies with all applicable requirements.
(3) If the original emission-data vehicle for the engine family is not appropriate to show compliance for the new or modified vehicle configuration, include new test data showing that the new or modified vehicle configuration meets the requirements of this part.
(c) We may ask for more test data or engineering evaluations. You must give us these within 30 days after we request them.
(d) For engine families already covered by a certificate of conformity, we will determine whether the existing certificate of conformity covers your new or modified vehicle configuration. You may ask for a hearing if we deny your request (see § 1051.820).
(e) For engine families already covered by a certificate of conformity, you may start producing the new or modified vehicle configuration anytime after you send us your amended application, before we make a decision under paragraph (d) of this section. However, if we determine that the affected vehicles do not meet applicable requirements, we will notify you to cease production of the vehicles and may require you to recall the vehicles at no expense to the owner. Choosing to produce vehicles under this paragraph (e) is deemed to be consent to recall all vehicles that we determine do not meet applicable emission standards or other requirements and to remedy the nonconformity at no expense to the owner. If you do not provide information required under paragraph (c) of this section within 30 days after we request it, you must stop producing the new or modified vehicle configuration.
(f) You may ask us to approve a change to your FEL in certain cases after the start of production. The changed FEL may not apply to vehicles you have already introduced into commerce, except as described in this paragraph (f). If we approve a changed FEL after the start of production, you must include the new FEL on the emission control information label for all vehicles produced after the change. You may ask us to approve a change to your FEL in the following cases:
(1) You may ask to raise your FEL for your engine family at any time. In your request, you must show that you will still be able to meet the emission standards as specified in subparts B and H of this part. If you amend your application by submitting new test
data to include a newly added or modified vehicle, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, use the appropriate FELs with corresponding production volumes to calculate your average emission level for the model year, as described in subpart H of this part. In all other circumstances, you must use the higher FEL for the entire family to calculate your average emission level under subpart H of this part.
(2) You may ask to lower the FEL for your engine family only if you have test data from production engines showing that the engines have emissions below the proposed lower FEL. The lower FEL applies only to engines you produce after we approve the new FEL. Use the appropriate FELs with corresponding production volumes to calculate your average emission level for the model year, as described in subpart H of this part.
[73 FR 59249, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.230
How do I select engine families?
(a) For purposes of certification, divide your product line into families of vehicles as described in this section. Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, you must have separate engine families for meeting exhaust and evaporative emissions. Your engine family is limited to a single model year.
(b) For exhaust emissions, group vehicles in the same engine family if they are the same in all the following aspects:
(1) The combustion cycle.
(2) The cooling system (liquid-cooled vs. air-cooled).
(3) Configuration of the fuel system (for example, port fuel injection vs. carburetion).
(4) Method of air aspiration.
(5) The number, location, volume, and composition of catalytic converters.
(6) Type of fuel.
(7) The number, arrangement (such as in-line or vee configuration), and approximate bore diameter of cylinders.
(8) Numerical level of the emission standards that apply to the vehicle. For example, an engine family may not include vehicles certified to different family emission limits, though you may change family emission limits without recertifying as specified in § 1051.225.
(c) For evaporative emissions, group vehicles in the same engine family if fuel tanks are similar and fuel lines are similar considering all the following aspects:
(1) Type of material (including additives such as pigments, plasticizers, and UV inhibitors).
(2) Emission-control strategy.
(3) Production methods. This does not apply to differences in production methods that would not affect emission characteristics.
(d) You may subdivide a group of vehicles that is identical under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section into different engine families if you show the expected emission characteristics are different during the useful life.
(e) You may group vehicles that are not identical with respect to the things listed in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section in the same engine family, as follows:
(1) In unusual circumstances, you may group such vehicles in the same engine family if you show that their emission characteristics during the useful life will be similar.
(2) If you are a small-volume manufacturer, you may group engines from any vehicles subject to the same emission standards into a single engine family. This does not change any of the requirements of this part for showing that an engine family meets emission standards.
(f) You may divide your product line into engine families based on a combined consideration of exhaust and evaporative emission-control systems, consistent with the requirements of this section. This would allow you to use a single engine-family designation for each engine family instead of having separate engine-family designations for exhaust and evaporative emission-control systems for each model.
(g) Select test engines from the engine family as described in 40 CFR 1065.401. Select test components related to evaporative emission-control systems that are most likely to exceed the applicable emission standards. For example, select a fuel tank with the smallest average wall thickness (or
barrier thickness, as appropriate) of those tanks you include in the same family.
[70 FR 40495, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59249, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23024, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1051.235
What emission testing must I perform for my application for a certificate of conformity?
This section describes the emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in subpart B of this part.
(a) Test your emission-data vehicles using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part. Where specifically required or allowed, test the engine instead of the vehicle. For evaporative emissions, test the fuel system components separate from the vehicle.
(b) Select from each engine family an emission-data vehicle, and a fuel system for each fuel type with a configuration that is most likely to exceed the emission standards, using good engineering judgment. Consider the emission levels of all exhaust constituents over the full useful life of the vehicle.
(c) We may measure emissions from any of your test vehicles or engines (or any other vehicles or engines from the engine family), as follows:
(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the test vehicle or engine to a test facility we designate. The test vehicle or engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.
(2) If we measure emissions on one of your test vehicles or engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results. Unless we later invalidate these data, we may decide not to consider your data in determining if your engine family meets applicable requirements.
(3) Before we test one of your vehicles or engines, we may set its adjustable parameters to any point within the physically adjustable ranges (see § 1051.115(c)).
(4) Before we test one of your vehicles or engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, this would apply where we determine that an engine parameter is not an adjustable parameter (as defined in § 1051.801) but that it is subject to production variability.
(d) You may use previously generated emission data in the following cases:
(1) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:
(i) The engine family from the previous model year differs from the current engine family only with respect to model year or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. You may also ask to add a configuration subject to § 1051.225.
(ii) The emission-data vehicle from the previous model year remains the appropriate emission-data vehicle under paragraph (b) of this section.
(iii) The data show that the emission-data vehicle would meet all the requirements that apply to the engine family covered by the application for certification.
(2) You may submit emission data for equivalent engine families performed to show compliance with other standards (such as California standards) instead of doing new tests, but only if the data show that the test vehicle or engine would meet all of this part's requirements.
(3) You may submit evaporative emission data measured by a fuel system supplier. We may require you to verify that the testing was conducted in accordance with the applicable regulations.
(e) We may require you to test a second vehicle or engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the vehicle or engine tested under paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F
of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.
(g) If you are a small-volume manufacturer, you may certify by design on the basis of preexisting exhaust emission data for similar technologies and other relevant information, and in accordance with good engineering judgment. In those cases, you are not required to test your vehicles. This is called “design-certification” or “certifying by design.” To certify by design, you must show that the technology used on your engines is sufficiently similar to the previously tested technology that a person reasonably familiar with emission-control technology would believe that your engines will comply with the emission standards.
(h) For fuel tanks that are certified based on permeability treatments for plastic fuel tanks, you do not need to test each engine family. However, you must use good engineering judgment to determine permeation rates for the tanks. This requires that more than one fuel tank be tested for each set of treatment conditions. You may not use test data from a given tank for any other tanks that have thinner walls. You may, however, use test data from a given tank for other tanks that have thicker walls. This applies to both low-hour (i.e., baseline testing) and durability testing. Note that § 1051.245 allows you to use design-based certification instead of generating new emission data.
(i) Measure CO
2
and CH
4
with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2011 and 2012 model years, respectively. Also measure N
2
O with each low-hour certification test using the analytical equipment and procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2013 model year for any engine family that depends on NOx aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small-volume manufacturers may omit measurement of N
2
O and CH
4
; other manufacturers may provide appropriate data and/or information and omit measurement of N
2
O and CH
4
as described in 40 CFR 1065.5. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for each constituent. Round the final values as follows:
(1) Round CO
2
to the nearest 1 g/kW-hr or 1 g/km, as appropriate.
(2) Round N
2
O to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr or 0.001 g/km, as appropriate.
(3) Round CH
4
to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr or 0.001 g/km, as appropriate.
[70 FR 40495, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59249, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 56510, Oct. 30, 2009]
§ 1051.240
How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with exhaust emission standards?
(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the applicable numerical exhaust emission standards in subpart B of this part if all emission-data vehicles representing that family have test results showing deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards. This includes all test points over the course of the durability demonstration. (Note: if you participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part, your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply.)
(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data vehicle representing that family has test results showing a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable FEL or emission standard. This includes all test points over the course of the durability demonstration.
(c) To compare emission levels from the emission-data vehicle with the applicable emission standards, apply deterioration factors to the measured emission levels. Section 1051.243 specifies how to test your vehicle to develop deterioration factors that represent the deterioration expected in emissions over your vehicle's full useful life. Your deterioration factors must take into account any available data from in-use testing with similar engines. Small-volume manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish. Apply deterioration factors as follows:
(1) For vehicles that use aftertreatment technology, such as catalytic converters, use a multiplicative deterioration factor for exhaust
emissions. A multiplicative deterioration factor is the ratio of exhaust emissions at the end of the useful life and exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. In these cases, adjust the official emission results for each tested vehicle or engine at the selected test point by multiplying the measured emissions by the deterioration factor. If the factor is less than one, use one. Multiplicative deterioration factors must be specified to three significant figures.
(2) For vehicles that do not use aftertreatment technology, use an additive deterioration factor for exhaust emissions. An additive deterioration factor for a pollutant is the difference between exhaust emissions at the end of the useful life and exhaust emissions at the low-hour test point. In these cases, adjust the official emission results for each tested vehicle or engine at the selected test point by adding the factor to the measured emissions. If the factor is less than zero, use zero. Additive deterioration factors must be specified to one more decimal place than the applicable standard.
(d) Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data vehicle. In the case of HC + NO
X
standards, add the emission results and apply the deterioration factor to the sum of the pollutants before rounding. However, if your deterioration factors are based on emission measurements that do not cover the vehicle's full useful life, apply the deterioration factor to each pollutant and then add the results before rounding.
[70 FR 40496, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59250, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.243
How do I determine deterioration factors from exhaust durability testing?
This section describes how to determine deterioration factors, either with pre-existing test data or with new emission measurements.
(a) You may ask us to approve deterioration factors for an engine family based on emission measurements from similar vehicles or engines if you have already given us these data for certifying other vehicles in the same or earlier model years. Use good engineering judgment to decide whether the two vehicles or engines are similar. We will approve your request if you show us that the emission measurements from other vehicles or engines reasonably represent in-use deterioration for the engine family for which you have not yet determined deterioration factors.
(b) If you are unable to determine deterioration factors for an engine family under paragraph (a) of this section, select vehicles, engines, subsystems, or components for testing. Determine deterioration factors based on service accumulation and related testing to represent the deterioration expected from in-use vehicles over the full useful life, as follows:
(1) You must measure emissions from the emission-data vehicle at a low-hour test point and the end of the useful life. You may also test at evenly spaced intermediate points.
(2) Operate the vehicle or engine over a representative duty cycle for a period at least as long as the useful life (in hours or kilometers). You may operate the vehicle or engine continuously.
(3) You may perform maintenance on emission-data vehicles as described in § 1051.125 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E.
(4) If you measure emissions at only two points to calculate your deterioration factor, base your calculations on a linear relationship connecting these two data points for each pollutant. If you measure emissions at three or more points, use a linear least-squares fit of your test data for each pollutant to calculate your deterioration factor.
(5) Use good engineering judgment for all aspects of the effort to establish deterioration factors under this paragraph (b).
(6) You may use other testing methods to determine deterioration factors, consistent with good engineering judgment, as long as we approve those methods in advance.
(c) Include the following information in your application for certification:
(1) If you determine your deterioration factors based on test data from a different engine family, explain why this is appropriate and include all the emission measurements on which you base the deterioration factor.
(2) If you do testing to determine deterioration factors, describe the form and extent of service accumulation, including a rationale for selecting the service-accumulation period and the method you use to accumulate hours.
[70 FR 40496, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59250, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.245
How do I demonstrate that my engine family complies with evaporative emission standards?
(a) For purposes of certification, your engine family is considered in compliance with the evaporative emission standards in subpart B of this part if you do either of the following:
(1) You have test results showing permeation emission levels from the fuel tanks and fuel lines in the family are at or below the standards in § 1051.110 throughout the useful life.
(2) You comply with the design specifications in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any fuel tank or fuel line representing that family has test results showing a deteriorated emission level above the standard.
(c) To compare emission levels with the emission standards, apply deterioration factors to the measured emission levels. For permeation emissions, use the following procedures to establish an additive deterioration factor, as described in § 1051.240(c)(2):
(1) Section 1051.515 specifies how to test your fuel tanks to develop deterioration factors. Small-volume manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish. Apply the deterioration factors as follows:
(i) Calculate the deterioration factor from emission tests performed before and after the durability tests as described in § 1051.515(c) and (d), using good engineering judgment. The durability tests described in § 1051.515(d) represent the minimum requirements for determining a deterioration factor. You may not use a deterioration factor that is less than the difference between evaporative emissions before and after the durability tests as described in § 1051.515(c) and (d).
(ii) Do not apply the deterioration factor to test results for tanks that have already undergone these durability tests.
(2) Determine the deterioration factor for fuel lines using good engineering judgment.
(d) Collect emission data using measurements to one more decimal place than the applicable standard. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data vehicle.
(e) You may demonstrate for certification that your engine family complies with the evaporative emission standards by demonstrating that you use the following control technologies:
(1) For certification to the standards specified in § 1051.110(a) with the control technologies shown in the following table:
Table 1 of § 1051.245—Design-certification Technologies for Controlling Tank Permeation
If the tank permeability control technology is . . .
Then you may design-certify with a tank emission level of . . .
(i) A metal fuel tank with no non-metal gaskets or with gaskets made from a low-permeability material
1.5 g/m
2
/day.
(ii) A metal fuel tank with non-metal gaskets with an exposed surface area of 1000 mm
2
or less
1.5 g/m
2
/day.
(2) For certification to the standards specified in § 1051.110(b) with the control technologies shown in the following table:
Table 2 of § 1051.245—Design-certification Technologies for Controlling Fuel-line Permeation
If the fuel-line permeability control technology is . . .
Then you may design-certify with a fuel line permeation emission level of . . .
(i) Hose meeting the specifications for Low Emission Fuel Lines as described in 40 CFR 1048.105
15 g/m
2
/day.
(ii) Hose meeting the R11-A or R12 permeation specifications in SAE J30 as described in 40 CFR 1060.810
15 g/m
2
/day.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 2442, Jan. 15, 2004; 70 FR 40497, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59250, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.250
What records must I keep and make available to EPA?
(a) Send the Designated Compliance Officer information related to your U.S.-directed production volumes as described in § 1051.345. In addition, within 45 days after the end of the model year, you must send us a report describing information about vehicles you produced during the model year as follows:
(1) State the total production volume for each engine family that is not subject to reporting under § 1051.345.
(2) State the total production volume for any engine family for which you produce vehicles after completing the reports required in § 1051.345.
(3) For production volumes you report under this paragraph (a), identify whether or not the figures include California sales. Include a separate count of production volumes for California sales if those figures are available.
(b) Organize and maintain the following records:
(1) A copy of all applications and any summary information you send us.
(2) Any of the information we specify in § 1051.205 that you were not required to include in your application.
(3) A detailed history of each emission-data vehicle. For each vehicle, describe all of the following:
(i) The emission-data vehicle's construction, including its origin and buildup, steps you took to ensure that it represents production vehicles, any components you built specially for it, and all the components you include in your application for certification.
(ii) How you accumulated vehicle or engine operating hours, including the dates and the number of hours accumulated.
(iii) All maintenance, including modifications, parts changes, and other service, and the dates and reasons for the maintenance.
(iv) All your emission tests, including documentation on routine and standard tests, as specified in 40 CFR part 1065, and the date and purpose of each test.
(v) All tests to diagnose engine or emission-control performance, giving the date and time of each and the reasons for the test.
(vi) Any other significant events.
(4) Production figures for each engine family divided by assembly plant.
(5) Keep a list of engine identification numbers for all the engines you produce under each certificate of conformity.
(c) Keep data from routine emission tests (such as test cell temperatures and relative humidity readings) for one year after we issue the associated certificate of conformity. Keep all other information specified in this section for eight years after we issue your certificate.
(d) Store these records in any format and on any media, as long as you can promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. You must keep these records readily available. We may review them at any time.
[70 FR 40497, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59250, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.255
What decisions may EPA make regarding a certificate of conformity?
(a) If we determine an application is complete and shows that the engine family meets all the requirements of this part and the Act, we will issue a certificate of conformity for the engine family for that model year. We may make the approval subject to additional conditions.
(b) We may deny an application for certification if we determine that an engine family fails to comply with emission standards or other requirements of this part or the Clean Air Act. We will base our decision on all available information. If we deny an application, we will explain why in writing.
(c) In addition, we may deny your application or suspend or revoke a certificate of conformity if you do any of the following:
(1) Refuse to comply with any testing or reporting requirements in this part.
(2) Submit false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting an application that causes submitted information to be false or incomplete.
(3) Cause any test data to become inaccurate.
(4) Deny us from completing authorized activities (see 40 CFR 1068.20). This includes a failure to provide reasonable assistance.
(5) Produce engines for importation into the United States at a location where local law prohibits us from carrying out authorized activities.
(6) Fail to supply requested information or amend an application to include all engines being produced.
(7) Take any action that otherwise circumvents the intent of the Act or this part.
(d) We may void a certificate of conformity if you fail to keep records, send reports, or give us information as required under this part or the Clean Air Act. Note that these are also violations of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2).
(e) We may void a certificate of conformity if we find that you intentionally submitted false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting an application that causes submitted information to be false or incomplete after submission.
(f) If we deny an application or suspend, revoke, or void a certificate, you may ask for a hearing (see § 1051.820).
[86 FR 34515, June 29, 2021]

# Subpart D—Testing Production-Line Vehicles and Engines
§ 1051.301
When must I test my production-line vehicles or engines?
(a) If you produce vehicles that are subject to the requirements of this part, you must test them as described in this subpart, except as follows:
(1) Small-volume manufacturers may omit testing under this subpart.
(2) We may exempt engine families with a projected U.S.-directed production volume below 150 units from routine testing under this subpart. Request this exemption in your application for certification and include your basis for projecting a production volume below 150 units. We will approve your request if we agree that you have made good-faith estimates of your production volumes. Your exemption is approved when we grant your certificate. You must promptly notify us if your actual production exceeds 150 units during the model year. If you exceed the production limit or if there is evidence of a nonconformity, we may require you to test production-line engines under this subpart, or under 40 CFR part 1068, subpart E, even if we have approved an exemption under this paragraph (a)(2).
(b) We may suspend or revoke your certificate of conformity for certain engine families if your production-line vehicles or engines do not meet the requirements of this part or you do not fulfill your obligations under this subpart (see §§ 1051.325 and 1051.340).
(c) Other regulatory provisions authorize us to suspend, revoke, or void your certificate of conformity, or order recalls for engine families, without regard to whether they have passed these production-line testing requirements. The requirements of this subpart do not affect our ability to do selective enforcement audits, as described in part 1068 of this chapter. Individual vehicles and engines in families that pass these production-line testing requirements must also conform to all applicable regulations of this part and part 1068 of this chapter.
(d) You may use alternate programs for testing production-line vehicles or engines in the following circumstances:
(1) You may use analyzers and sampling systems that meet the field-testing requirements of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart J, but not the otherwise applicable requirements in 40 CFR part 1065 for laboratory testing, to demonstrate compliance with emission standards if you double the minimum sampling rate specified in § 1054.310(b). Use measured test results to determine whether vehicles or engines comply with applicable standards without applying a measurement allowance. This alternate program does not require prior approval
but we may disallow use of this option where we determine that use of field-grade equipment would prevent you from being able to demonstrate that your vehicles or engines are being produced to conform to the specifications in your application for certification.
(2) You may ask to use another alternate program for testing production-line vehicles or engines. In your request, you must show us that the alternate program gives equal assurance that your products meet the requirements of this part. We may waive some or all of this subpart's requirements if we approve your alternate approach. For example, in certain circumstances you may be able to give us equal assurance that your products meet the requirements of this part by using less rigorous measurement methods if you offset that by increasing the number of test vehicles or engines.
(e) If you certify an engine family with carryover emission data, as described in § 1051.235(d), and these equivalent engine families consistently pass the production-line testing requirements over the preceding two-year period, you may ask for a reduced testing rate for further production-line testing for that family. The minimum testing rate is one vehicle or engine per engine family. If we reduce your testing rate, we may limit our approval to any number of model years. In determining whether to approve your request, we may consider the number of vehicles or engines that have failed the emission tests.
(f) We may ask you to make a reasonable number of production-line vehicles or engines available for a reasonable time so we can test or inspect them for compliance with the requirements of this part.
(g) The requirements of this subpart do not apply to engine families certified under the provisions of § 1051.630.
(h) Vehicles certified to the following standards are exempt from the production-line testing requirements of this subpart if no engine families in the averaging set have family emission limits that are different than the otherwise applicable standard:
(1) Phase 1 or Phase 2 standards in § 1051.103.
(2) Phase 1 standards in § 1051.105.
(3) Phase 1 standards in § 1051.107.
(4) The standards in § 1051.615.
(5) The standards in § 1051.145.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40498, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59250, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.305
How must I prepare and test my production-line vehicles or engines?
This section describes how to prepare and test production-line vehicles or engines. Test the engine if your vehicle is certified to g/kW-hr standards; otherwise test the vehicle. You must assemble the test vehicle or engine in a way that represents the assembly procedures for other vehicles or engines in the engine family. You must ask us to approve any deviations from your normal assembly procedures for other production vehicles or engines in the engine family.
(a)
Test procedures.
Test your production-line vehicles or engines using the applicable testing procedures in subpart F of this part to show you meet the emission standards in subpart B of this part.
(b)
Modifying a test vehicle or engine.
Once a vehicle or engine is selected for testing (see § 1051.310), you may adjust, repair, prepare, or modify it or check its emissions only if one of the following is true:
(1) You document the need for doing so in your procedures for assembling and inspecting all your production vehicles or engines and make the action routine for all the vehicles or engines in the engine family.
(2) This subpart otherwise specifically allows your action.
(3) We approve your action in advance.
(c)
Malfunction.
If a vehicle or engine malfunction prevents further emission testing, ask us to approve your decision to either repair it or delete it from the test sequence.
(d)
Setting adjustable parameters.
Before any test, we may require you to adjust any adjustable parameter to any setting within its physically adjustable range.
(1) We may require you to adjust idle speed outside the physically adjustable range as needed, but only until the vehicle or engine has stabilized emission
levels (see paragraph (e) of this section). We may ask you for information needed to establish an alternate minimum idle speed.
(2) We may specify adjustments within the physically adjustable range by considering their effect on emission levels. We may also consider how likely it is that someone will make such an adjustment with in-use vehicles.
(3) We may specify an air-fuel ratio within the adjustable range specified in § 1051.115(d).
(e)
Stabilizing emission levels.
Before you test production-line vehicles or engines, you may operate the vehicle or engine to stabilize the emission levels. Using good engineering judgment, operate your vehicles or engines in a way that represents the way they will be used. You may operate each vehicle or engine for no more than the greater of two periods:
(1) 50 hours or 500 kilometers.
(2) The number of hours or kilometers you operated the emission-data vehicle used for certifying the engine family (see 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, or the applicable regulations governing how you should prepare your test vehicle or engine).
(f)
Damage during shipment.
If shipping a vehicle or engine to a remote facility for production-line testing makes necessary an adjustment or repair, you must wait until after the initial emission test to do this work. We may waive this requirement if the test would be impossible or unsafe, or if it would permanently damage the vehicle or engine. Report to us, in your written report under § 1051.345, all adjustments or repairs you make on test vehicles or engines before each test.
(g)
Retesting after invalid tests.
You may retest a vehicle or engine if you determine an emission test is invalid under subpart F of this part. Explain in your written report reasons for invalidating any test and the emission results from all tests. If we determine that you improperly invalidated a test, we may require you to ask for our approval for future testing before substituting results of the new tests for invalid ones.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40498, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59251, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.310
How must I select vehicles or engines for production-line testing?
(a) Test engines from each engine family as described in this section based on test periods, as follows:
(1) For engine families with projected U.S.-directed production volume of at least 1,600, the test periods are defined as follows:
(i) If your annual production period is 120 days or less, the whole model year constitutes a single test period.
(ii) If your annual production period is 121 to 210 days, divide the annual production period evenly into two test periods.
(iii) If your annual production period is 211 to 300 days, divide the annual production period evenly into three test periods.
(iv) If your annual production period is 301 days or longer, divide the annual production period evenly into four test periods. For example, if your annual production period is 392 days (56 weeks), divide the annual production period into four test periods of 98 days (14 weeks).
(2) For engine families with projected U.S.-directed production volume below 1,600, the whole model year constitutes a single test period.
(b) Early in each test period, randomly select and test an engine from the end of the assembly line for each engine family.
(1) In the first test period for newly certified engines, randomly select and test one more engine. Then, calculate the required sample size for the model year as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) In later test periods of the same model year, combine the new test result with all previous testing in the model year. Then, calculate the required sample size for the model year as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) In the first test period for engine families relying on previously submitted test data, combine the new test result with the last test result from the previous model year. Then, calculate the required sample size for the model year as described in paragraph (c) of this section. Use the last test result from the previous model year only
for this first calculation. For all subsequent calculations, use only results from the current model year.
(c) Calculate the required sample size for each engine family. Separately calculate this figure for HC, NO
X
(or HC + NO
X
), and CO. The required sample size is the greater of these calculated values. Use the following equation:
ER08OC08.093
Where:
N = Required sample size for the model year.
t
95
= 95% confidence coefficient, which depends on the number of tests completed, n, as specified in the table in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. It defines 95% confidence intervals for a one-tail distribution.
σ = Test sample standard deviation (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section).
x = Mean of emission test results of the sample.
STD = Emission standard (or family emission limit, if applicable).
(1) Determine the 95% confidence coefficient, t
95
, from the following table:
n
t
95
n
t
95
n
t
95
2
6.31
12
1.80
22
1.72
3
2.92
13
1.78
23
1.72
4
2.35
14
1.77
24
1.71
5
2.13
15
1.76
25
1.71
6
2.02
16
1.75
26
1.71
7
1.94
17
1.75
27
1.71
8
1.90
18
1.74
28
1.70
9
1.86
19
1.73
29
1.70
10
1.83
20
1.73
30 +
1.70
11
1.81
21
1.72
(2) Calculate the standard deviation, σ, for the test sample using the following formula:
ER08OC08.094
Where:
X
i
= Emission test result for an individual vehicle or engine.
n = The number of tests completed in an engine family.
(d) Use final deteriorated test results to calculate the variables in the equations in paragraph (c) of this section (see § 1051.315(a)).
(e) After each new test, recalculate the required sample size using the updated mean values, standard deviations, and the appropriate 95-percent confidence coefficient.
(f) Distribute the remaining tests evenly throughout the rest of the year. You may need to adjust your schedule for selecting vehicles or engines if the required sample size changes. If your scheduled quarterly testing for the remainder of the model year is sufficient to meet the calculated sample size, you may wait until the next quarter to do additional testing. Continue to randomly select vehicles or engines from each engine family.
(g) Continue testing until one of the following things happens:
(1) After completing the minimum number of tests required in paragraph (b) of this section, the number of tests completed in an engine family, n, is greater than the required sample size, N, and the sample mean, x, is less than or equal to the emission standard. For example, if N = 5.1 after the fifth test, the sample-size calculation does not allow you to stop testing.
(2) The engine family does not comply according to § 1051.315.
(3) You test 30 vehicles or engines from the engine family.
(4) You test one percent of your projected annual U.S.-directed production volume for the engine family, rounded to the nearest whole number. Do not count a vehicle or engine under this paragraph (g)(4) if it fails to meet an applicable emission standard.
(5) You choose to declare that the engine family does not comply with the requirements of this subpart.
(h) If the sample-size calculation allows you to stop testing for one pollutant but not another, you must continue measuring emission levels of all pollutants for any additional tests required under this section. However, you need not continue making the calculations specified in this subpart for the pollutant for which testing is not required. This paragraph (h) does not affect the number of tests required under this section, the required calculations in § 1051.315, or the remedial steps required under § 1051.320.
(i) You may elect to test more randomly chosen vehicles or engines than
we require under this section. Include these vehicles or engines in the sample-size calculations.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40498, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59251, Oct. 8, 2008; 86 FR 34516, June 29, 2021]
§ 1051.315
How do I know when my engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
This section describes the pass-fail criteria for the production-line testing requirements. We apply these criteria on an engine family basis. See§ 1051.320 for the requirements that apply to individual vehicles or engines that fail a production-line test.
(a) Calculate your test results. Round them to the number of decimal places in the emission standard expressed to one more decimal place.
(1)
Initial and final test results.
Calculate and round the test results for each vehicle or engine. If you do several tests on a vehicle or engine, calculate the initial results for each test, then add all the test results together and divide by the number of tests. Round this final calculated value for the final test results on that vehicle or engine.
(2)
Final deteriorated test results.
Apply the deterioration factor for the engine family to the final test results (see § 1051.240(c)).
(3)
Round deteriorated test results.
Round the results to the number of decimal places in the emission standard expressed to one more decimal place.
(b) Construct the following CumSum Equation for each engine family for HC, NO
X
(HC + NO
X
), and CO emissions:
C
i
= Max [0 or C
i−1
+ X
i
−(STD + 0.25 × σ)]
Where:
C
i
= The current CumSum statistic.
C
i−1
= The previous CumSum statistic. For the first test, the CumSum statistic is 0 (i.e., C
1
= 0).
X
i
= The current emission test result for an individual vehicle or engine.
STD = Emission standard (or family emission limit, if applicable).
(c) Use final deteriorated test results to calculate the variables in the equation in paragraph (b) of this section (see § 1051.315(a)).
(d) After each new test, recalculate the CumSum statistic.
(e) If you test more than the required number of vehicles or engines, include the results from these additional tests in the CumSum Equation.
(f) After each test, compare the current CumSum statistic, C
i
, to the recalculated Action Limit, H, defined as H = 5.0 × σ.
(g) If the CumSum statistic exceeds the Action Limit in two consecutive tests, the engine family fails the production-line testing requirements of this subpart. Tell us within ten working days if this happens. You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the engine family as described in § 1051.225(f).
(h) If you amend the application for certification for an engine family under § 1051.225, do not change any previous calculations of sample size or CumSum statistics for the model year.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40499, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59252, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.320
What happens if one of my production-line vehicles or engines fails to meet emission standards?
(a) If you have a production-line vehicle or engine with final deteriorated test results exceeding one or more emission standards (see § 1051.315(a)), the certificate of conformity is automatically suspended for that failing vehicle or engine. You must take the following actions before your certificate of conformity can cover that vehicle or engine:
(1) Correct the problem and retest the vehicle or engine to show it complies with all emission standards.
(2) Include the test results and describe the remedy for each engine in the written report required under § 1051.345.
(b) You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the entire engine family at this point (see § 1051.225).
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 59252, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.325
What happens if an engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
(a) We may suspend your certificate of conformity for an engine family if it fails under § 1051.315. The suspension may apply to all facilities producing vehicles or engines from an engine family, even if you find noncompliant vehicles or engines only at one facility.
(b) We will tell you in writing if we suspend your certificate in whole or in part. We will not suspend a certificate until at least 15 days after the engine family fails. The suspension is effective when you receive our notice.
(c) Up to 15 days after we suspend the certificate for an engine family, you may ask for a hearing (see § 1051.820). If we agree before a hearing occurs that we used erroneous information in deciding to suspend the certificate, we will reinstate the certificate.
(d) Section 1051.335 specifies steps you must take to remedy the cause of the engine family's production-line failure. All the vehicles you have produced since the end of the last test period are presumed noncompliant and should be addressed in your proposed remedy. We may require you to apply the remedy to engines produced earlier if we determine that the cause of the failure is likely to have affected the earlier engines.
(e) You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the engine family before or after we suspend your certificate as described in § 1051.225(f). We will approve your request if it is clear that you used good engineering judgment in establishing the original FEL.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40499, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59252, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.330
May I sell vehicles from an engine family with a suspended certificate of conformity?
You may sell vehicles that you produce after we suspend the engine family's certificate of conformity under § 1051.315 only if one of the following occurs:
(a) You test each vehicle or engine you produce and show it complies with emission standards that apply.
(b) We conditionally reinstate the certificate for the engine family. We may do so if you agree to recall all the affected vehicles and remedy any noncompliance at no expense to the owner if later testing shows that the engine family still does not comply.
§ 1051.335
How do I ask EPA to reinstate my suspended certificate?
(a) Send us a written report asking us to reinstate your suspended certificate. In your report, identify the reason for noncompliance, propose a remedy for the engine family, and commit to a date for carrying it out. In your proposed remedy include any quality control measures you propose to keep the problem from happening again.
(b) Give us data from production-line testing that shows the remedied engine family complies with all the emission standards that apply.
§ 1051.340
When may EPA revoke my certificate under this subpart and how may I sell these vehicles again?
(a) We may revoke your certificate for an engine family in the following cases:
(1) You do not meet the reporting requirements.
(2) Your engine family fails to comply with the requirements of this subpart and your proposed remedy to address a suspended certificate under § 1051.325 is inadequate to solve the problem or requires you to change the vehicle's design or emission-control system.
(b) To sell vehicles from an engine family with a revoked certificate of conformity, you must modify the engine family and then show it complies with the requirements of this part.
(1) If we determine your proposed design change may not control emissions for the vehicle's full useful life, we will tell you within five working days after receiving your report. In this case we will decide whether production-line testing will be enough for us to evaluate the change or whether you need to do more testing.
(2) Unless we require more testing, you may show compliance by testing production-line vehicles or engines as described in this subpart.
(3) We will issue a new or updated certificate of conformity when you have met these requirements.
§ 1051.345
What production-line testing records must I send to EPA?
(a) Within 30 calendar days of the end of each test period, send us a report with the following information:
(1) Describe any facility used to test production-line vehicles or engines and state its location.
(2) State the total U.S.-directed production volume and number of tests for each engine family.
(3) Describe how you randomly selected vehicles or engines.
(4) Describe each test vehicle or engine, including the engine family's identification and the vehicle's model year, build date, model number, identification number, and number of hours of operation before testing.
(5) Identify how you accumulated hours of operation on the vehicles or engines and describe the procedure and schedule you used.
(6) Provide the test number; the date, time and duration of testing; test procedure; all initial test results; final test results; and final deteriorated test results for all tests. Provide the emission results for all measured pollutants. Include information for both valid and invalid tests and the reason for any invalidation.
(7) Describe completely and justify any nonroutine adjustment, modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, or test for the test vehicle or engine if you did not report it separately under this subpart. Include the results of any emission measurements, regardless of the procedure or type of vehicle.
(8) Provide the CumSum analysis required in § 1051.315 and the sample-size calculation required in § 1051.310 for each engine family.
(9) Report on each failed vehicle or engine as described in § 1051.320.
(10) State the date the test period ended for each engine family.
(b) We may ask you to add information to your written report, so we can determine whether your new vehicles conform with the requirements of this subpart. We may also ask you to send less information.
(c) An authorized representative of your company must sign the following statement: We submit this report under Sections 208 and 213 of the Clean Air Act. Our production-line testing conformed completely with the requirements of 40 CFR part 1051. We have not changed production processes or quality-control procedures for test engines (or vehicles) in a way that might affect emission controls. All the information in this report is true and accurate, to the best of my knowledge. I know of the penalties for violating the Clean Air Act and the regulations. (Authorized Company Representative)
(d) Send electronic reports of production-line testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.
(e) We will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them. See § 1051.815 for information on how we treat information you consider confidential.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40499, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59253, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.350
What records must I keep?
(a) Organize and maintain your records as described in this section. We may review your records at any time.
(b) Keep paper or electronic records of your production-line testing for eight years after you complete all the testing required for an engine family in a model year.
(c) Keep a copy of the written reports described in § 1051.345.
(d) Keep the following additional records:
(1) A description of all test equipment for each test cell that you can use to test production-line vehicles or engines.
(2) The names of supervisors involved in each test.
(3) The name of anyone who authorizes adjusting, repairing, preparing, or modifying a test vehicle or engine and the names of all supervisors who oversee this work.
(4) If you shipped the vehicle or engine for testing, the date you shipped
it, the associated storage or port facility, and the date the vehicle or engine arrived at the testing facility.
(5) Any records related to your production-line tests that are not in the written report.
(6) A brief description of any significant events during testing not otherwise described in the written report or in this section.
(7) Any information specified in § 1051.345 that you do not include in your written reports.
(e) If we ask, you must give us projected or actual production figures for an engine family. We may ask you to divide your production figures by maximum engine power, displacement, fuel type, or assembly plant (if you produce vehicles or engines at more than one plant).
(f) Keep records of the vehicle or engine identification number for each vehicle or engine you produce under each certificate of conformity. You may identify these numbers as a range. Give us these records within 30 days if we ask for them.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40499, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59253, Oct. 8, 2008]
Subpart E—Testing In-use Engines [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Test Procedures
§ 1051.501
What procedures must I use to test my vehicles or engines?
This section describes test procedures that you use to determine whether vehicles meet the emission standards of this part. See § 1051.235 to determine when testing is required for certification. See subpart D of this part for the production-line testing requirements.
(a)
Snowmobiles.
For snowmobiles, use the equipment and procedures for spark-ignition engines in 40 CFR part 1065 to determine whether your snowmobiles meet the duty-cycle emission standards in § 1051.103. Measure the emissions of all the pollutants we regulate in § 1051.103. Measure CO
2
, N
2
O, and CH
4
as described in § 1051.235. Use the duty cycle specified in § 1051.505.
(b)
Motorcycles and ATVs.
For motorcycles and ATVs, use the equipment, procedures, and duty cycle in 40 CFR part 86, subpart F, to determine whether your vehicles meet the exhaust emission standards in § 1051.105 or § 1051.107. Measure the emissions of all the pollutants we regulate in § 1051.105 or § 1051.107. Measure CO
2
, N
2
O, and CH
4
as described in § 1051.235. If we allow you to certify ATVs based on engine testing, use the equipment, procedures, and duty cycle described or referenced in the section that allows engine testing. For motorcycles with engine displacement at or below 169 cc and all ATVs, use the driving schedule in paragraph (b) of appendix I to 40 CFR part 86. For all other motorcycles, use the driving schedule in paragraph (a) of Appendix I to part 86. With respect to vehicle-speed governors, test motorcycles and ATVs in their ungoverned configuration, unless we approve in advance testing in a governed configuration. We will only approve testing in a governed configuration if you can show that the governor is permanently installed on all production vehicles and is unlikely to be removed in use. With respect to engine-speed governors, test motorcycles and ATVs in their governed configuration. Run the test engine, with all emission-control systems operating, long enough to stabilize emission levels; you may consider emission levels stable without measurement if you accumulate 12 hours of operation.
(c)
Permeation testing.
(1) Use the equipment and procedures specified in § 1051.515 to measure fuel tank permeation emissions.
(2) To measure fuel-line permeation emissions, use the equipment and procedures specified in SAE J30 as described in 40 CFR 1060.810. Prior to permeation testing, precondition the fuel line by filling it with the fuel specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, sealing the openings, and soaking it for 4 weeks at (23 ±5) °C. Use the fuel specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Perform daily measurements for 14 days, except that you may omit up to two daily measurements in any seven-day period. Maintain an ambient temperature of (23 ±2) °C throughout the sampling period, except for intervals
up to 30 minutes for weight measurements.
(d)
Fuels.
Use the fuels meeting the following specifications:
(1)
Exhaust.
Use the fuels and lubricants specified in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, for all the exhaust testing we require in this part. For service accumulation, use the test fuel or any commercially available fuel that is representative of the fuel that in-use engines will use. The following provisions apply for using specific fuel types:
(i) For gasoline-fueled engines, use the grade of gasoline specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(c) for general testing. You may alternatively use ethanol-blended fuel meeting the specifications described in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) for general testing without our advance approval. If you use the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family, you may also use it for production-line testing or any other testing you perform for that engine family under this part. If you use the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family, we may use the ethanol-blended fuel or the specified neat gasoline test fuel with that engine family.
(ii) For diesel-fueled engines, use either low-sulfur diesel fuel or ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel meeting the specifications in 40 CFR 1065.703. If you use sulfur-sensitive technology as defined in 40 CFR 1039.801 and you measure emissions using ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel, you must add a permanent label near the fuel inlet with the following statement: “ULTRA LOW SULFUR FUEL ONLY”.
(2)
Fuel tank permeation.
(i) For the preconditioning soak described in § 1051.515(a)(1) and fuel slosh durability test described in § 1051.515(d)(3), use the fuel specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(b), or the fuel specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(c) blended with 10 percent ethanol by volume. As an alternative, you may use Fuel CE10, which is Fuel C as specified in ASTM D471 (see 40 CFR 1060.810) blended with 10 percent ethanol by volume.
(ii) For the permeation measurement test in § 1051.515(b), use the fuel specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(c). As an alternative, you may use any of the fuels specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section.
(3)
Fuel hose permeation.
Use the fuel specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(b), or the fuel specified in 40 CFR 1065.710(c) blended with 10 percent ethanol by volume for permeation testing of fuel lines. As an alternative, you may use Fuel CE10, which is Fuel C as specified in ASTM D471 (see 40 CFR 1060.810) blended with 10 percent ethanol by volume.
(e)
Engine stabilization.
Instead of the provisions of 40 CFR 1065.405, you may consider emission levels stable without measurement after 12 hours of engine operation.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Special procedures for engine testing.
(1) You may use special or alternate procedures, as described in § 1065.10 of this chapter.
(2) We may reject data you generate using alternate procedures if later testing with the procedures in part 1065 of this chapter shows contradictory emission data.
(3) You may test engines using a test speed based on the point of maximum power if that represents in-use operation better than testing based on maximum test speed.
(h)
Special procedures for vehicle testing.
(1) You may use special or alternate procedures, as described in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(2) We may reject data you generate using alternate procedures if later testing with the otherwise specified procedures shows contradictory emission data.
(3)(i) The test procedures specified for vehicle testing are intended to produce emission measurements equivalent to those that would result from measuring emissions during in-use operation using the same vehicle configuration. If good engineering judgment indicates that use of the procedures in this part for a vehicle would result in measurements that are not representative of in-use operation of that vehicle, you must notify us. If we determine that using these procedures would result in measurements that are significantly unrepresentative and that changes to the procedures will result in more representative measurements that do not decrease the stringency of emission standards or other requirements, we will specify changes to the
procedures. In your notification to us, you should recommend specific changes you think are necessary.
(ii) You may ask to use emission data collected using other test procedures, such as those of the California Air Resources Board or the International Organization for Standardization. We will allow this only if you show us that these data are equivalent to data collected using our test procedures.
(iii) You may ask to use alternate procedures that produce measurements equivalent to those obtained using the specified procedures. In this case, send us a written request showing that your alternate procedures are equivalent to the test procedures of this part. If you prove to us that the procedures are equivalent, we will allow you to use them. You may not use alternate procedures until we approve them.
(iv) You may ask to use special test procedures if your vehicle cannot be tested using the specified test procedures (for example, it is incapable of operating on the specified transient cycle). In this case, send us a written request showing that you cannot satisfactorily test your engines using the test procedures of this part. We will allow you to use special test procedures if we determine that they would produce emission measurements that are representative of those that would result from measuring emissions during in-use operation. You may not use special procedures until we approve them.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 2442, Jan. 15, 2004; 70 FR 40499, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59253, Oct. 8, 2008; 74 FR 56511, Oct. 30, 2009; 80 FR 9113, Feb. 19, 2015; 86 FR 34516, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4666, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1051.505
What special provisions apply for testing snowmobiles?
Use the following special provisions for testing snowmobiles:
(a) You may perform steady-state testing with either discrete-mode or ramped-modal cycles. You must use the type of testing you select in your application for certification for all testing you perform for that engine family. If we test your engines to confirm that they meet emission standards, we will do testing the same way. If you submit certification test data collected with both discrete-mode and ramped-modal testing (either in your original application or in an amendment to your application), either method may be used for subsequent testing. We may also perform other testing as allowed by the Clean Air Act. Measure steady-state emissions as follows:
(1) For discrete-mode testing, sample emissions separately for each mode, then calculate an average emission level for the whole cycle using the weighting factors specified for each mode. In each mode, operate the engine for at least 5 minutes, then sample emissions for at least 1 minute. Calculate cycle statistics and compare with the established criteria as specified in 40 CFR 1065.514 to confirm that the test is valid.
(2) For ramped-modal testing, start sampling at the beginning of the first mode and continue sampling until the end of the last mode. Calculate emissions and cycle statistics the same as for transient testing as specified in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart G.
(3) Measure emissions by testing the engine on a dynamometer with one or more of the following sets of duty cycles to determine whether it meets the steady-state emission standards in § 1051.103:
(i) The following duty cycle applies for discrete-mode testing:
Table 1 of § 1051.505—5-Mode Duty Cycle for Snowmobiles
Mode No.
Speed
(percent)
1
Torque
(percent)
2
Minimum time in mode
(minutes)
Weighting factors
1
100
100
3.0
0.12
2
85
51
3.0
0.27
3
75
33
3.0
0.25
4
65
19
3.0
0.31
5
Idle
0
3.0
0.05
1
Percent speed is percent of maximum test speed.
2
Percent torque is percent of maximum torque at maximum test speed.
(ii) The following duty cycle applies for ramped-modal testing:
Table 2 of § 1051.505—Ramped-modal Cycle for Testing Snowmobiles
RMC mode
Time in mode
Speed (percent)
1
Torque (percent)
2 3
1a Steady-state
27
Warm Idle
0
1b Transition
20
Linear Transition
Linear Transition
2a Steady-state
121
100
100
2b Transition
20
Linear Transition
Linear Transition
3a Steady-state
347
65
19
3b Transition
20
Linear Transition
Linear Transition
4a Steady-state
305
85
51
4b Transition
20
Linear Transition
Linear Transition
5a Steady-state
272
75
33
5b Transition
20
Linear Transition
Linear Transition
6 Steady-state
28
Warm Idle
0
1
Percent speed is percent of maximum test speed.
2
Advance from one mode to the next within a 20-second transition phase. During the transition phase, command a linear progression from the torque setting of the current mode to the torque setting of the next mode.
3
Percent torque is percent of maximum torque at maximum test speed.
(b) During idle mode, operate the engine at its warm idle speed as described in 40 CFR 1065.510.
(c) For the full-load operating mode, operate the engine at wide-open throttle.
(d) Ambient temperatures during testing must be between 20 °C and 30 °C (68 °F and 86 °F), or other representative test temperatures, as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.
(e) See 40 CFR part 1065 for detailed specifications of tolerances and calculations.
(f) You may test snowmobiles at ambient temperatures below 20 °C or using intake air temperatures below 20 °C if you show that such testing complies with 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(1). You must get our approval before you begin the emission testing. For example, the following approach would be appropriate to show that such testing complies with 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(1):
(1) Using good engineering judgment, instrument a representative snowmobile built with a representative engine from the family being tested with an appropriate temperature measuring device located in the intake air plenum where fuel spitback is not likely to occur.
(2) Choose a time and location with the following weather conditions: windspeed less than 10 knots, no falling precipitation, air temperature between −20 °C and 0 °C (−4 °F and 32 °F).
(3) Operate the snowmobile until its engine reaches a steady operating temperature.
(4) Operate the snowmobile on a level surface free of other vehicle traffic. Operate the snowmobile at each specified engine speed corresponding to each mode in the emissions test specific to the engine being tested. When readings are stable, record the temperature in the intake air plenum and the ambient temperature. Calculate the temperature difference between the air in the plenum and the ambient air for each mode.
(5) Calculate the nominal intake air test temperature for each test mode as −10 °C (14 °F) plus the temperature difference for the corresponding mode determined in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(6) Before the emissions test, select the appropriate carburetor jetting for −10 °C (14 °F) conditions according to the jet chart. For each mode, maintain the inlet air temperature within 5 °C (9 °F) of the corresponding modal temperature calculated in paragraph (f)(5) of this section.
(7) Adjust other operating parameters to be consistent with operation at −10 °C (14 °F). For example, this may require that you modify the engine cooling system used in the laboratory to make its performance representative of cold-temperature operation.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40500, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59253, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.510
What special provisions apply for testing ATV engines? [Reserved]
§ 1051.515
How do I test my fuel tank for permeation emissions?
Measure permeation emissions by weighing a sealed fuel tank before and after a temperature-controlled soak.
(a)
Preconditioning fuel soak.
To precondition your fuel tank, follow these five steps:
(1) Fill the tank with the fuel specified in § 1051.501(d)(2)(i), seal it, and allow it to soak at 28 ±5 °C for 20 weeks or at (43 ±5) °C for 10 weeks.
(2) Determine the fuel tank's internal surface area in square-meters accurate to at least three significant figures. You may use less accurate estimates of the surface area if you make sure not to overestimate the surface area.
(3) Fill the fuel tank with the test fuel specified in § 1051.501(d)(2)(ii) to its nominal capacity. If you fill the tank inside the temperature-controlled room or enclosure, do not spill any fuel.
(4) Allow the tank and its contents to equilibrate to 28 ±2 °C.
(5) Seal the fuel tank using fuel caps and other fittings (excluding petcocks) that can be used to seal openings in a production fuel tank. In cases where openings are not normally sealed on the fuel tank (such as hose-connection fittings and vents in fuel caps), these openings may be sealed using nonpermeable fittings such as metal or fluoropolymer plugs.
(b)
Permeation test run.
To run the test, take the following steps for a tank that was preconditioned as specified in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Weigh the sealed fuel tank and record the weight to the nearest 0.1 grams. You may use less precise weights as long as the difference in mass from the start of the test to the end of the test has at least three significant figures. Take this measurement within 8 hours of filling the tank with test fuel as specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(2) Carefully place the tank within a ventilated, temperature-controlled room or enclosure. Do not spill or add any fuel.
(3) Close the room or enclosure and record the time.
(4) Ensure that the measured temperature in the room or enclosure is 28 ±2 °C.
(5) Leave the tank in the room or enclosure for 14 days.
(6) Hold the temperature of the room or enclosure to 28 ±2 °C; measure and record the temperature at least daily.
(7) At the end of the soak period, weigh the sealed fuel tank and record the weight to the nearest 0.1 grams. You may use less precise weights as long as the difference in mass from the start of the test to the end of the test has at least three significant figures. Unless the same fuel is used in the preconditioning fuel soak and the permeation test run, record weight measurements on five separate days per week of testing. The test is void if a linear plot of tank weight vs. test days for the full soak period for permeation testing specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section yields r
2
below 0.8. See 40 CFR 1065.602 for the equation to calculate r
2
.
(8) Subtract the weight of the tank at the end of the test from the weight of the tank at the beginning of the test; divide the difference by the internal surface area of the fuel tank. Divide this g/m
2
value by the number of test days (using at least three significant figures) to calculate the g/m
2
/day emission rate. Example: If a tank with an internal surface area of 0.72 m
2
weighed 31882.3 grams at the beginning of the test and weighed 31813.8 grams after
soaking for 14.03 days, then the g/m
2
/day emission rate would be—
(31882.3 g−31813.8 g)/0.72 m
2
/14.03 days = 6.78 g/m
2
/day.
(9) Round your result to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard.
(10) In cases where consideration of permeation rates, using good engineering judgment, leads you to conclude that soaking for 14 days is not long enough to measure weight change to at least three significant figures, you may soak for 14 days longer. In this case, repeat the steps in paragraphs (b)(8) and (9) of this section to determine the weight change for the full 28 days.
(c)
Determination of final test result.
To determine the final test result, apply a deterioration factor to the measured emission level. The deterioration factor is the difference between permeation emissions measured before and after the durability testing described in paragraph (d) of this section. Adjust the baseline test results for each tested fuel tank by adding the deterioration factor to the measured emissions. The deterioration factor determination must be based on good engineering judgement. Therefore, during the durability testing, the test tank may not exceed the fuel tank permeation standard described in § 1051.110 (this is known as “line-crossing”). If the deterioration factor is less than zero, use zero.
(d)
Durability testing.
You normally need to perform a separate durability demonstration for each substantially different combination of treatment approaches and tank materials. Perform these demonstrations before an emission test by taking the following steps, unless you can use good engineering judgment to apply the results of previous durability testing with a different fuel system. You may ask to exclude any of the following durability tests if you can clearly demonstrate that it does not affect the emissions from your fuel tank.
(1)
Pressure cycling.
Perform a pressure test by sealing the tank and cycling it between + 2.0 psig and −0.5 psig and back to + 2.0 psig for 10,000 cycles at a rate 60 seconds per cycle.
(2)
UV exposure.
Perform a sunlight-exposure test by exposing the tank to an ultraviolet light of at least 24 W/m
2
(0.40 W-hr/m
2
/min) on the tank surface for at least 450 hours. Alternatively, the fuel tank may be exposed to direct natural sunlight for an equivalent period of time, as long as you ensure that the tank is exposed to at least 450 daylight hours.
(3)
Slosh testing.
Perform a slosh test by filling the tank to 40 percent of its capacity with the fuel specified in § 1051.501(d)(2)(i) and rocking it at a rate of 15 cycles per minute until you reach one million total cycles. Use an angle deviation of + 15° to −15° from level. This test must be performed at a temperature of 28 °C ±5 °C.
(4)
Final test result.
Following the durability testing, the fuel tank must be soaked (as described in paragraph (a) of this section) to ensure that the permeation rate is stable. The period of slosh testing and the period of ultraviolet testing (if performed with fuel in the tank consistent with paragraph (a)(1) of this section) may be considered to be part of this soak, provided that the soak begins immediately after the slosh testing. To determine the final permeation rate, drain and refill the tank with fresh fuel, and repeat the permeation test run (as described in paragraph (b) of this section) immediately after this soak period. The same test fuel must be used for this permeation test run as for the permeation test run performed prior to the durability testing.
(e)
Flow chart.
The following figure presents a flow chart for the permeation testing described in this section, showing the full test procedure with durability testing, as well as the simplified test procedure with an applied deterioration factor:
ER15JA04.002
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 69 FR 2442, Jan. 15, 2004; 70 FR 40501, July 13, 2005; 88 FR 4666, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1051.520
How do I perform exhaust durability testing?
Sections 1051.240 and 1051.243 describe the method for testing that must be performed to establish deterioration factors for an engine family.
[70 FR 40501, July 13, 2005]

# Subpart G—Compliance Provisions
§ 1051.601
What compliance provisions apply to vehicles and engines subject to this part?
Engine and vehicle manufacturers, as well as owners, operators, and rebuilders of these vehicles, and all other persons, must observe the requirements and prohibitions in part 1068 of this chapter and the requirements of the Act. The compliance provisions in this subpart apply only to the vehicles and engines we regulate in this part.
§ 1051.605
What provisions apply to engines already certified under the motor vehicle program or the Large Spark-ignition program?
(a)
General provisions.
If you are an engine manufacturer, this section allows you to introduce into commerce new recreational vehicles, and engines for recreational vehicles, if the engines are already certified to the requirements that apply to spark-ignition engines under 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 or 40 CFR part 1048 for the appropriate model year. If you comply with all the provisions of this section, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1051 for its model year, without a separate application for certification under the requirements of this part 1051. See § 1051.610 for similar provisions that apply to vehicles that are already certified to the vehicle-based standards for motor vehicles.
(b)
Vehicle-manufacturer provisions.
If you are not an engine manufacturer, you may install an engine certified for the appropriate model year under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 in a recreational vehicle as long as you meet all the requirements and conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. If you modify the non-recreational engine in any of the ways described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for installation in a recreational vehicle, we will consider you a manufacturer of recreational vehicles. Such engine modifications prevent you from using the provisions of this section.
(c)
Liability.
Engines for which you meet the requirements of this section are exempt from all the requirements and prohibitions of this part, except for those specified in this section. Engines exempted under this section must meet all the applicable requirements from 40 CFR parts 85 and 86 or 40 CFR part 1048. This paragraph (c) applies to engine manufacturers, vehicle manufacturers who use such an engine, and all other persons as if the engine were used in its originally intended application. The prohibited acts of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) apply to these new engines and vehicles; however, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 for each engine to also be a valid certificate of conformity under this part 1051 for its model year. If we make a determination that these engines do not conform to the regulations during their useful life, we may require you to recall them under this part 1051 or under 40 CFR part 85 or 1068.505.
(d)
Specific requirements.
If you are an engine or vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new engine or vehicle, the vehicle using the engine is eligible for an exemption under this section:
(1) Your engine must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048.
(2) You must not make any changes to the certified engine that could reasonably be expected to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions. For example, if you make any of the following changes to one of these engines, you do not qualify for this exemption:
(i) Change any fuel system or evaporative system parameters from the certified configuration (this does not apply to refueling controls).
(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the engine manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.
(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original engine manufacturer's specified ranges.
(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in recreational vehicles. This includes engines used in any application, without regard to which company manufactures the vehicle or equipment. Show this as follows:
(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.
(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm this based on its sales information.
(4) You must ensure that the engine has the emission control information label we require under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048.
(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the engine in a position where it will remain clearly visible after installation in the vehicle. In the supplemental label, do the following:
(i) Include the heading: “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.
(iii) State: “THIS ENGINE WAS ADAPTED FOR A RECREATIONAL USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS.”.
(iv) State the date you finished installation (month and year), if applicable.
(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible after the engine is installed in the vehicle or, if the vehicle obscures the engine's emission control information label, the make sure the vehicle manufacturer attaches duplicate labels, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.
(7) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:
(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.
(ii) List the engine or vehicle models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(iii) State: “We produce each listed [engine or vehicle] model for recreational application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1051.605.”.
(e)
Failure to comply.
If your engines do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d) of this section, they will be subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions of this part 1051 and the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 or 1048 will not be deemed to also be a certificate issued under this part 1051. Introducing these engines into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity under this part violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).
(f)
Data submission.
We may require you to send us emission test data on any applicable nonroad duty cycles.
(g)
Participation in averaging, banking and trading.
Engines or vehicles adapted for recreational use under this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part 1051. These engines or vehicles may generate credits under the ABT provisions in 40 CFR part 86. These engines or vehicles must use emission credits under 40 CFR part 86 if they are certified to an FEL that exceeds an applicable standard.
[70 FR 40501, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59254, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.610
What provisions apply to vehicles already certified under the motor vehicle program?
(a)
General provisions.
If you are a motor-vehicle manufacturer, this section allows you to introduce new recreational vehicles into commerce if the vehicle is already certified to the requirements that apply under 40 CFR parts 85 and 86. If you comply with all
of the provisions of this section, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 for each motor vehicle to also be a valid certificate of conformity for the engine under this part 1051 for its model year, without a separate application for certification under the requirements of this part 1051. This section applies especially for highway motorcycles that are modified for recreational nonroad use. See § 1051.605 for similar provisions that apply to motor-vehicle engines or Large SI engines produced for recreational vehicles.
(b)
Nonroad vehicle-manufacturer provisions.
If you are not a motor-vehicle manufacturer, you may produce recreational vehicles from motor vehicles under this section as long as you meet all the requirements and conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. If you modify the motor vehicle or its engine in any of the ways described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, we will consider you a manufacturer of a new recreational vehicle. Such modifications prevent you from using the provisions of this section.
(c)
Liability.
Engines and vehicles for which you meet the requirements of this section are exempt from all the requirements and prohibitions of this part, except for those specified in this section. Engines exempted under this section must meet all the applicable requirements from 40 CFR parts 85 and 86. This applies to engine manufacturers, vehicle manufacturers, and all other persons as if the recreational vehicles were motor vehicles. The prohibited acts of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) apply to these new recreational vehicles; however, we consider the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 for each motor vehicle to also be a valid certificate of conformity for the recreational vehicle under this part 1051 for its model year. If we make a determination that these engines or vehicles do not conform to the regulations during their useful life, we may require you to recall them under 40 CFR part 86 or 40 CFR 1068.505.
(d)
Specific requirements.
If you are a motor-vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new recreational vehicle and its engine, the vehicle is eligible for an exemption under this section:
(1) Your vehicle must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity as a motor vehicle issued under 40 CFR part 86.
(2) You must not make any changes to the certified vehicle that we could reasonably expect to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions if it is subject to evaporative-emission standards. For example, if you make any of the following changes, you do not qualify for this exemption:
(i) Change any fuel system parameters from the certified configuration.
(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the vehicle manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.
(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original vehicle manufacturer's specified ranges.
(iv) Add more than 500 pounds to the curb weight of the originally certified motor vehicle.
(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in recreational vehicles. This includes any type of vehicle, without regard to which company completes the manufacturing of the recreational vehicle. Show this as follows:
(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the vehicle, base this showing on your sales information.
(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the vehicle to confirm this based on their sales information.
(4) The vehicle must have the vehicle emission control information we require under 40 CFR part 86.
(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the vehicle in a position where it will remain clearly visible. In the supplemental label, do the following:
(i) Include the heading: “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.
(iii) State: “THIS VEHICLE WAS ADAPTED FOR RECREATIONAL USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS.”.
(iv) State the date you finished modifying the vehicle (month and year), if applicable.
(6) The original and supplemental labels must be readily visible in the fully assembled vehicle.
(7) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:
(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.
(ii) List the vehicle models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year and describe your basis for meeting the sales restrictions of paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(iii) State: “We produced each listed engine or vehicle model for recreational application without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 1051.610.”.
(e)
Failure to comply.
If your engines or vehicles do not meet the criteria listed in paragraph (d) of this section, the engines will be subject to the standards, requirements, and prohibitions of this part 1051, and the certificate issued under 40 CFR part 86 will not be deemed to also be a certificate issued under this part 1051. Introducing these engines into commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity under this part violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1).
(f)
Data submission.
We may require you to send us emission test data on any applicable nonroad duty cycles.
(g)
Participation in averaging, banking and trading.
Vehicles adapted for recreational use under this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part 1051. These vehicles may generate credits under the ABT provisions in 40 CFR part 86. These vehicles must use emission credits under 40 CFR part 86 if they are certified to an FEL that exceeds an emission standard that applies.
[70 FR 40502, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59254, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.615
What are the special provisions for certifying small recreational engines?
(a) You may certify ATVs with engines that have total displacement of less than 100 cc to the following exhaust emission standards instead of certifying them to the exhaust emission standards of subpart B of this part:
(1) 25.0 g/kW-hr HC + NO
X
, with an FEL cap of 40.0 g/kW-hr HC + NO
X
.
(2) 500 g/kW-hr CO.
(b) You may certify off-highway motorcycles with engines that have total displacement of 70 cc or less to the following exhaust emission standards instead of certifying them to the exhaust emission standards of subpart B of this part:
(1) 16.1 g/kW-hr HC + NO
X
, with an FEL cap of 32.2 g/kW-hr HC + NO
X
.
(2) 519 g/kW-hr CO.
(c) You may use the averaging, banking, and trading provisions of subpart H of this part to show compliance with this HC + NO
X
standards (an engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meet the applicable emission standards using emission credits, and the vehicles within the family meet the family emission limit). You may not use averaging to meet the CO standards of this section.
(d) Measure steady-state emissions by testing the engine on an engine dynamometer using the equipment and procedures of 40 CFR part 1065 with either discrete-mode or ramped-modal cycles. You must use the type of testing you select in your application for certification for all testing you perform for that engine family. If we test your engines to confirm that they meet emission standards, we will do testing the same way. If you submit certification test data collected with both discrete-mode and ramped-modal testing (either in your original application or in an amendment to your application), either method may be used for
subsequent testing. We may also perform other testing as allowed by the Clean Air Act. Measure steady-state emissions as follows:
(1) For discrete-mode testing, sample emissions separately for each mode, then calculate an average emission level for the whole cycle using the weighting factors specified for each mode. In each mode, operate the engine for at least 5 minutes, then sample emissions for at least 1 minute. Calculate cycle statistics for the sequence of modes and compare with the specified values in 40 CFR 1065.514 to confirm that the test is valid.
(2) For ramped-modal testing, start sampling at the beginning of the first mode and continue sampling until the end of the last mode. Calculate emissions and cycle statistics the same as for transient testing.
(3) Measure emissions by testing the engine on a dynamometer with one or more of the following sets of duty cycles to determine whether it meets applicable emission standards:
(i) The following duty cycle applies for discrete-mode testing:
Table 1 of § 1051.615—6-Mode Duty Cycle for Recreational Engines
Mode No.
Engine speed
(percent)
1
Torque
(percent)
2
Minimum time in mode
(minutes)
Weighting factors
1
85
100
5.0
0.09
2
85
75
5.0
0.20
3
85
50
5.0
0.29
4
85
25
5.0
0.30
5
85
10
5.0
0.07
6
Idle
0
5.0
0.05
1
Percent speed is percent of maximum test speed.
2
Percent torque is percent of maximum torque at the commanded test speed.
(ii) The following duty cycle applies for ramped-modal testing:
Table 2 of § 1051.615—Ramped-modal Cycle for Testing Recreational Engines
RMC mode
Time
Speed
(percent)
1 2
Torque
(percent)
2 3
1a Steady-state
41
Warm Idle
0.
1b Transition
20
Linear Transition
Linear Transition.
2a Steady-state
135
85
100.
2b Transition
20
85
Linear Transition.
3a Steady-state
112
85
10.
3b Transition
20
85
Linear Transition.
4a Steady-state
337
85
75.
4b Transition
20
85
Linear Transition.
5a Steady-state
518
85
25.
5b Transition
20
85
Linear Transition.
6a Steady-state
494
85
50.
6b Transition
20
Linear Transition
Linear Transition.
7 Steady-state
43
Warm Idle
0.
1
Percent speed is percent of maximum test speed.
2
Advance from one mode to the next within a 20-second transition phase. During the transition phase, command a linear progression from the torque setting of the current mode to the torque setting of the next mode.
3
Percent torque is percent of maximum torque at the commanded test speed.
(4) During idle mode, operate the engine at its warm idle speed as described in 40 CFR 1065.510.
(5) For the full-load operating mode, operate the engine at wide-open throttle.
(6) See 40 CFR part 1065 for detailed specifications of tolerances and calculations.
(e) All other requirements and prohibitions of this part apply to these engines and vehicles.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40503, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59254, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.620
When may a manufacturer obtain an exemption for competition recreational vehicles?
(a) We may grant you an exemption from the standards and requirements of this part for a new recreational vehicle on the grounds that it is to be used solely for competition. The provisions of this part other than those in this section do not apply to recreational vehicles that we exempt for use solely for competition.
(b) We will exempt vehicles that we determine will be used solely for competition. The basis of our determinations are described in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (c) of this section. Exemptions granted under this section are good for only one model year and you must request renewal for each subsequent model year. We will not approve your renewal request if we determine the vehicles will not be used solely for competition.
(1)
Off-highway motorcycles.
Motorcycles that are marketed and labeled as only for competitive use and that meet at least four of the criteria listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section are considered to be used solely for competition, except in cases where other information is available that indicates that they are not used solely for competition. The following features are indicative of motorcycles used solely for competition:
(i) The absence of a headlight or other lights.
(ii) The absence of a spark arrestor.
(iii) The absence of manufacturer warranty.
(iv) Suspension travel greater than 10 inches.
(v) Engine displacement greater than 50 cc.
(vi) The absence of a functional seat. (For example, a seat with less than 30 square inches of seating surface would generally not be considered a functional seat).
(2)
Snowmobiles and ATVs.
Snowmobiles and ATVs meeting all of the following criteria are considered to be used solely for competition, except in cases where other information is available that indicates that they are not used solely for competition:
(i) The vehicle or engine may not be displayed for sale in any public dealership.
(ii) Sale of the vehicle must be limited to professional racers or other qualified racers.
(iii) The vehicle must have performance characteristics that are substantially superior to noncompetitive models.
(c) Vehicles not meeting the applicable criteria listed in paragraph (b) of this section will be exempted only in cases where the manufacturer has clear and convincing evidence that the vehicles will be used solely for competition.
(d) You must permanently label vehicles exempted under this section to clearly indicate that they are to be used only for competition. Failure to properly label a vehicle will void the exemption for that vehicle.
(e) If we request it, you must provide us any information we need to determine whether the vehicles are used solely for competition.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40504, July 13, 2005]
§ 1051.625
What special provisions apply to unique snowmobile designs for small-volume manufacturers?
(a) If you are a small-volume manufacturer, we may permit you to produce up to 600 snowmobiles per year that are certified to less stringent emission standards than those in § 1051.103, as long as you meet all the conditions and requirements in this section.
(b) To apply for alternate standards under this section, send the Designated Officer a written request. In your request, do two things:
(1) Show that the snowmobile has unique design, calibration, or operating characteristics that make it atypical and infeasible or highly impractical to meet the emission standards in § 1051.103, considering technology, cost, and other factors.
(2) Identify the level of compliance you can achieve, including a description of available emission-control technologies and any constraints that may prevent more effective use of these technologies.
(c) You must give us other relevant information if we ask for it.
(d) An authorized representative of your company must sign the request and include the statement: “All the information in this request is true and accurate, to the best of my knowledge.”.
(e) Send your request for this extension at least nine months before the relevant deadline. If different deadlines apply to companies that are not small-volume manufacturers, do not send your request before the regulations in question apply to the other manufacturers.
(f) If we approve your request, we will set alternate standards for your qualifying snowmobiles. These standards will not be above 400 g/kW-hr for CO or 150 g/kW-hr for HC.
(g) You may produce these snowmobiles to meet the alternate standards we establish under this section as long as you continue to produce them at the same or lower emission levels.
(h) You may not include snowmobiles you produce under this section in any averaging, banking, or trading calculations under Subpart H of this part.
(i) You must meet all the requirements of this part, except as noted in this section.
§ 1051.630
What special provisions apply to unique snowmobile designs for all manufacturers?
(a) We may permit you to produce up to 600 snowmobiles per year that are certified to the FELs listed in this section without new test data, as long as you meet all the conditions and requirements in this section.
(b) You may certify these snowmobiles with FELs of 560 g/kW-hr for CO and 270 g/kW-hr for HC (using the normal certification procedures).
(c) The emission levels described in this section are intended to represent worst-case emission levels. You may not certify snowmobiles under this section if good engineering judgment indicates that they have emission rates higher than these levels.
(d) Include snowmobiles you produce under this section in your averaging calculations under Subpart H of this part.
(e) You must meet all the requirements of this part, unless the regulations of this part specify otherwise.
§ 1051.635
What provisions apply to new manufacturers that are small businesses?
(a) If you are a small business (as defined by the Small Business Administration at 13 CFR 121.201) that manufactures recreational vehicles, but does not otherwise qualify for the small-volume manufacturer provisions of this part, you may ask us to designate you to be a small-volume manufacturer. You may do this whether you began manufacturing recreational vehicles before, during, or after 2002.
(b) We may set other reasonable conditions that are consistent with the intent of this section and the Act. For example, we may place sales limits on companies that we designate to be small-volume manufacturers under this section.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 73 FR 59255, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.640
What special provisions apply for custom off-highway motorcycles that are similar to highway motorcycles?
You may ask to exempt custom-designed off-highway motorcycles that are substantially similar to highway motorcycles under the display exemption provisions of 40 CFR 86.407-78(c). Motorcycles exempt under this provision are subject to the restrictions of 40 CFR 86.407-78(c) and are considered to be motor vehicles for the purposes of this part 1051.
[69 FR 2445, Jan. 15, 2004]
§ 1051.645
What special provisions apply to branded engines?
The following provisions apply if you identify the name and trademark of another company instead of your own on your emission control information label, as provided by § 1051.135(c)(2):
(a) You must have a contractual agreement with the other company
that obligates that company to take the following steps:
(1) Meet the emission warranty requirements that apply under § 1051.120. This may involve a separate agreement involving reimbursement of warranty-related expenses.
(2) Report all warranty-related information to the certificate holder.
(b) In your application for certification, identify the company whose trademark you will use.
(c) You remain responsible for meeting all the requirements of this chapter, including warranty and defect-reporting provisions.
[70 FR 40504, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59255, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.650
What special provisions apply for converting a vehicle to use an alternate fuel?
A certificate of conformity is no longer valid for a vehicle if the vehicle is modified such that it is not in a configuration covered by the certificate. This section applies if such modifications are done to convert the vehicle to run on a different fuel type. Such vehicles may be recertified as specified in this section if the original certificate is no longer valid for that vehicle.
(a) Converting a certified new vehicle to run on a different fuel type violates 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) if the modified vehicle is not covered by a certificate of conformity.
(b) Converting a certified vehicle that is not new to run on a different fuel type violates 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) if the modified vehicle is not covered by a certificate of conformity. We may specify alternate certification provisions consistent with the requirements of this part. For example, you may certify the modified vehicle for a partial useful life. For example, if the vehicle is modified halfway through its original useful life period, you may generally certify the vehicle based on completing the original useful life period; or if the vehicle is modified after the original useful life period is past, you may generally certify the vehicle based on testing that does not involve further durability demonstration.
(c) Vehicles (or engines) may be certified using the certification procedures for new vehicles (or engines) as specified in this part or using the certification procedures for aftermarket parts as specified in 40 CFR part 85, subpart V. Unless the original vehicle manufacturer continues to be responsible for the vehicle as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, you must remove the original manufacturer's emission control information label if you recertify the vehicle.
(d) The original vehicle manufacturer is not responsible for operation of modified vehicles in configurations resulting from modifications performed by others. In cases where the modification allows a vehicle to be operated in either its original configuration or a modified configuration, the original vehicle manufacturer remains responsible for operation of the modified vehicle in its original configuration.
(e) Entities producing conversion kits may obtain certificates of conformity for the converted vehicles. Such entities are vehicle manufacturers for purposes of this part.
[73 FR 59255, Oct. 8, 2008]

# Subpart H—Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
§ 1051.701
General provisions.
(a) You may average, bank, and trade emission credits for purposes of certification as described in this subpart to show compliance with the standards of this part. To do this you must certify your engines to Family Emission Limits (FELs) and show that your average emission levels for all your engine families together are below the emission standards in subpart B of this part, or that you have sufficient credits to offset a credit deficit for the model year (as calculated in § 1051.720).
(b) The following averaging set restrictions apply:
(1) You may not average together engine families that are certified to different standards. You may, however, use banked credits that were generated relative to different standards, except as prohibited by paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, paragraph (e) of this section, or by other provisions in this part. For example, you may not average together within a model year off-highway motorcycles that are certified
to the standards in § 1051.105(a)(1) and § 1051.105(a)(2); but you may use banked credits generated by off-highway motorcycles that are certified to the standards in § 1051.105(a)(1) to show compliance with the standards in § 1051.105(a)(2) in a later model year, and vice versa.
(2) There are separate averaging, banking, and trading programs for snowmobiles, ATVs, and off-highway motorcycles. You may not average or exchange banked or traded credits from engine families of one type of vehicle with those from engine families of another type of vehicle.
(3) You may not average or exchange banked or traded credits with other engine families if you use fundamentally different measurement procedures for the different engine families (for example, ATVs certified to chassis-based vs. engine-based standards). This paragraph (b)(3) does not restrict you from averaging together engine families that use test procedures that we determine provide equivalent emission results.
(4) You may not average or exchange banked or traded exhaust credits with evaporative credits, or vice versa.
(c) The definitions of Subpart I of this part apply to this subpart. The following definitions also apply:
(1)
Actual emission credits
means emission credits you have generated that we have verified by reviewing your final report.
(2)
Average standard
means a standard that allows you comply by averaging all your vehicles under this part. See subpart B of this part to determine which standards are average standards.
(3)
Averaging set
means a set of engines in which emission credits may be exchanged only with other engines in the same averaging set.
(4)
Broker
means any entity that facilitates a trade of emission credits between a buyer and seller.
(5)
Buyer
means the entity that receives emission credits as a result of a trade.
(6)
Reserved emission credits
means emission credits you have generated that we have not yet verified by reviewing your final report.
(7)
Seller
means the entity that provides emission credits during a trade.
(8)
Trade
means to exchange emission credits, either as a buyer or seller.
(d) In your application for certification, base your showing of compliance on projected production volumes for vehicles whose point of first retail sale is in the United States. As described in § 1051.730, compliance with the requirements of this subpart is determined at the end of the model year based on actual production volumes for vehicles whose point of first retail sale is in the United States. Do not include any of the following vehicles to calculate emission credits:
(1) Vehicles exempted under subpart G of this part or under 40 CFR part 1068.
(2) Exported vehicles.
(3) Vehicles not subject to the requirements of this part, such as those excluded under § 1051.5.
(4) Vehicles for which the location of first retail sale is in a state that has applicable state emission regulations for that model year. However, this restriction does not apply if we determine that the state standards and requirements are equivalent to those of this part and that these vehicles sold in such a state will not generate credits under the state program. For example, you may not include vehicles certified for California if it has more stringent emission standards for these vehicles or those vehicles generate or use emission credits under the California program.
(5) Any other vehicles, where we indicate elsewhere in this part 1051 that they are not to be included in the calculations of this subpart.
(e) You may not use emission credits generated under this subpart to offset any emissions that exceed an FEL or standard, except as specified in § 1051.225(f)(1). This applies for all testing, including certification testing, in-use testing, selective enforcement audits, and other production-line testing.
(f) Emission credits may be used in the model year they are generated or in future model years. Emission credits may not be used for past model years.
(g) You may increase or decrease an FEL during the model year by amending your application for certification under § 1051.225.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40504, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59256, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.705
How do I average emission levels?
(a) As specified in subpart B of this part, certify each vehicle to an FEL, subject to the FEL caps in subpart B of this part.
(b) Calculate a preliminary average emission level according to § 1051.720 for each averaging set using projected U.S.-directed production volumes from your application for certification, excluding vehicles described in § 1051.701(d)(4).
(c) After the end of your model year, calculate a final average emission level according to § 1051.720 for each type of recreational vehicle or engine you manufacture or import. Use actual U.S.-directed production volumes, excluding vehicles described in § 1051.701(d)(4).
(d) If your preliminary average emission level is below the allowable average standard, see § 1051.710 for information about generating and banking emission credits. These credits will be considered reserved until we verify them in reviewing the end-of-year report.
(e) If your average emission level is above the allowable average standard, you must obtain enough emission credits to offset the deficit by the due date for the final report required in § 1051.730. The emission credits used to address the deficit may come from emission credits you have banked or from emission credits you obtain through trading.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40505, July 13, 2005]
§ 1051.710
How do I generate and bank emission credits?
(a) Banking is the retention of emission credits by the manufacturer generating the emission credits for use in averaging or trading in future model years. You may use banked emission credits only within the averaging set in which they were generated.
(b) If your average emission level is below the average standard, you may calculate credits according to § 1051.720. Credits you generate do not expire.
(c) You may generate credits if you are a certifying manufacturer.
(d) You may designate any emission credits you plan to bank in the reports you submit under § 1051.730. During the model year and before the due date for the final report, you may designate your reserved emission credits for averaging or trading.
(e) Reserved credits become actual emission credits when you submit your final report. However, we may revoke these emission credits if we are unable to verify them after reviewing your reports or auditing your records.
[70 FR 40505, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59256, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.715
How do I trade emission credits?
(a) Trading is the exchange of emission credits between manufacturers. You may use traded emission credits for averaging, banking, or further trading transactions. Traded emission credits may be used only within the averaging set in which they were generated.
(b) You may trade actual emission credits as described in this subpart. You may also trade reserved emission credits, but we may revoke these emission credits based on our review of your records or reports or those of the company with which you traded emission credits. You may trade banked credits within an averaging set to any certifying manufacturer.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) If a negative emission credit balance results from a transaction, both the buyer and seller are liable, except in cases we deem to involve fraud. See § 1051.255(e) for cases involving fraud. We may void the certificates of all engine families participating in a trade that results in a manufacturer having a negative balance of emission credits. See § 1051.745.
[70 FR 40505, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59256, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.720
How do I calculate my average emission level or emission credits?
(a) Calculate your average emission level for each type of recreational vehicle or engine for each model year according to the following equation and round it to the nearest tenth of a g/km or g/kW-hr. Use consistent units throughout the calculation.
(1) For exhaust emissions:
(i) Calculate the average emission level as:
ER08NO02.011
Where:
FEL
i
= The FEL to which the engine family is certified.
UL
i
= The useful life of the engine family.
Production
i
= The number of vehicles in the engine family.
(ii) Use U.S.-directed production projections for initial certification, and actual U.S.-directed production volumes to determine compliance at the end of the model year.
(2) For vehicles that have standards expressed as g/kW-hr and a useful life in kilometers, convert the useful life to kW-hr based on the maximum engine power and an assumed vehicle speed of 30 km/hr as follows: UL (kW-hr) = UL (km) × Maximum Engine Power (kW) ÷ 30 km/hr. (Note: It is not necessary to include a load factor, since credit exchange is not allowed between vehicles certified to g/kW-hr standards and vehicles certified to g/km standards.)
(3) For evaporative emission standards expressed as g/m
2
/day, use the useful life value in years multiplied by 365.24 and calculate the average emission level as:
ER13JY05.019
Where:
FEL
i
= The FEL to which the engine family is certified, as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
Production
i
= The number of vehicles in the engine family times the average internal surface area of the vehicles' fuel tanks.
(4) Determine the FEL for calculating credits under paragraph (a)(3) of this section using any of the following values:
(i) The FEL to which the tank is certified, as long as the FEL is at or below 3.0 g/m
2
/day.
(ii) 10.4 g/m
2
/day. However, if you use this value to establish the FEL for any of your tanks, you must use this value to establish the FEL for every tank not covered by paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.
(iii) The measured permeation rate of the tank or the measured permeation rate of a thinner-walled tank of the same material. However, if you use this approach to establish the FEL for any of your tanks, you must establish an FEL based on emission measurements for every tank not covered by paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.
(b) If your average emission level is below the average standard, calculate credits available for banking according to the following equation and round them to the nearest tenth of a gram:
ER08NO02.013
(c) If your average emission level is above the average standard, calculate your preliminary credit deficit according to the following equation, rounding to the nearest tenth of a gram:
ER08NO02.014
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40505, July 13, 2005; 73 FR 59256, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.725
What must I include in my applications for certification?
(a) You must declare in your applications for certification your intent to use the provisions of this subpart. You must also declare the FELs you select for each engine family. Your FELs must comply with the specifications of subpart B of this part, including the FEL caps. FELs must be expressed to the same number of decimal places as the applicable standards.
(b) Include the following in your application for certification:
(1) A statement that, to the best of your belief, you will not have a negative balance of emission credits for any averaging set when all emission credits are calculated at the end of the year. This means that if you believe that your average emission level will be above the standard (
i.e.,
that you will have a deficit for the model year), you must have banked credits (or project to have received traded credits) to offset the deficit.
(2) Detailed calculations of projected emission credits (positive or negative) based on projected production volumes. We may require you to include similar calculations from your other engine families to demonstrate that you will be able to avoid a negative credit balance for the model year. If you project negative emission credits for an engine family, state the source of positive emission credits you expect to use to offset the negative emission credits.
[70 FR 40506, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59256, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.730
What ABT reports must I send to EPA?
(a) If any of your engine families are certified using the ABT provisions of this subpart, you must send an end-of-year report within 90 days after the end of the model year and a final report within 270 days after the end of the model year. We may waive the requirement to send the end-of year report, as long as you send the final report on time.
(b) Your end-of-year and final reports must include the following information for each engine family:
(1) Engine-family designation.
(2) The emission standards that would otherwise apply to the engine family.
(3) The FEL for each pollutant. If you change the FEL after the start of production, identify the date that you started using the new FEL and/or give the vehicle identification number for the first vehicle covered by the new FEL. In this case, identify each applicable FEL and calculate the positive or negative emission credits under each FEL.
(4) The projected and actual production volumes for the model year with a point of retail sale in the United States, as described in § 1051.701(d). For
fuel tanks, state the production volume in terms of surface area and production volume for each tank configuration and state the total surface area for the emission family. If you changed an FEL during the model year, identify the actual production volume associated with each FEL.
(5) For vehicles that have standards expressed as g/kW-hr, maximum engine power for each vehicle configuration, and the average engine power weighted by U.S.-directed production volumes for the engine family.
(6) Useful life.
(7) Calculated positive or negative emission credits. Identify any emission credits that you traded, as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(c) Your end-of-year and final reports must include the following additional information:
(1) Show that your net balance of emission credits in each averaging set in the applicable model year is not negative.
(2) State whether you will retain any emission credits for banking.
(3) State that the report's contents are accurate.
(d) If you trade emission credits, you must send us a report within 90 days after the transaction, as follows:
(1) As the seller, you must include the following information in your report:
(i) The corporate names of the buyer and any brokers.
(ii) A copy of any contracts related to the trade.
(iii) The engine families that generated emission credits for the trade, including the number of emission credits from each family.
(2) As the buyer, you must include the following information in your report:
(i) The corporate names of the seller and any brokers.
(ii) A copy of any contracts related to the trade.
(iii) How you intend to use the emission credits, including the number of emission credits you intend to apply to each engine family (if known).
(e) Send your reports electronically to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.
(f) Correct errors in your end-of-year report or final report as follows:
(1) You may correct any errors in your end-of-year report when you prepare the final report as long as you send us the final report by the time it is due.
(2) If you or we determine within 270 days after the end of the model year that errors mistakenly decreased your balance of emission credits, you may correct the errors and recalculate the balance of emission credits. You may not make these corrections for errors that are determined more than 270 days after the end of the model year. If you report a negative balance of emission credits, we may disallow corrections under this paragraph (f)(2).
(3) If you or we determine anytime that errors mistakenly increased your balance of emission credits, you must correct the errors and recalculate the balance of emission credits.
[70 FR 40506, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59256, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.735
What records must I keep?
(a) You must organize and maintain your records as described in this section. We may review your records at any time.
(b) Keep the records required by this section for at least eight years after the due date for the end-of-year report. You may not use emission credits on any engines if you do not keep all the records required under this section. You must therefore keep these records to continue to bank valid credits. Store these records in any format and on any media as long as you can promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. You must keep these records readily available. We may review them at any time.
(c) Keep a copy of the reports we require in § 1051.725 and § 1051.730.
(d) Keep records of the identification number for each vehicle or engine or piece of equipment you produce that generates or uses emission credits under the ABT program. You may identify these numbers as a range.
(e) We may require you to keep additional records or to send us relevant information not required by this section in accordance with the Clean Air Act.
[70 FR 40506, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59257, Oct. 8, 2008]
§ 1051.740
Are there special averaging provisions for snowmobiles?
For snowmobiles, you may only use credits for the same phase or set of standards against which they were generated, except as allowed by this section.
(a)
Restrictions.
(1) You may not use any Phase 1 or Phase 2 credits for Phase 3 compliance.
(2) You may not use Phase 1 HC credits for Phase 2 HC compliance. However, because the Phase 1 and Phase 2 CO standards are the same, you may use Phase 1 CO credits for compliance with the Phase 2 CO standards.
(b)
Special credits for next phase of standards.
You may choose to generate credits early for banking for purposes of compliance with later phases of standards as follows:
(1) If your corporate average emission level at the end of the model year exceeds the applicable (current) phase of standards (without the use of traded or previously banked credits), you may choose to redesignate some of your snowmobile production to a calculation to generate credits for a future phase of standards. To generate credits the snowmobiles designated must have an FEL below the emission level of that set of standards. This can be done on a pollutant specific basis.
(2) Do not include the snowmobiles that you redesignate in the final compliance calculation of your average emission level for the otherwise applicable (current) phase of standards. Your average emission level for the remaining (non-redesignated) snowmobiles must comply with the otherwise applicable (current) phase of standards.
(3) Include the snowmobiles that you redesignate in a separate calculation of your average emission level for redesignated engines. Calculate credits using this average emission level relative to the specific pollutant in the future phase of standards. These credits may be used for compliance with the future standards.
(4) For generating early Phase 3 credits, you may generate credits for HC or CO separately as described:
(i) To determine if you qualify to generate credits in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, you must meet the credit trigger level. For HC this value is 75 g/kW-hr. For CO this value is 200 g/kW-hr.
(ii) HC and CO credits for Phase 3 are calculated relative to 75 g/kW-hr and 200 g/kW-hr values, respectively.
(5) Credits can also be calculated for Phase 3 using both sets of standards. Without regard to the trigger level values, if your net emission reduction for the redesignated averaging set exceeds the requirements of Phase 3 in § 1051.103 (using both HC and CO in the Phase 3 equation in § 1051.103), then your credits are the difference between the Phase 3 reduction requirement of that section and your calculated value.
[70 FR 40507, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 35952, June 25, 2008; 73 FR 59257, Oct. 8, 2008; 88 FR 4666, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1051.745
What can happen if I do not comply with the provisions of this subpart?
(a) For each engine family participating in the ABT program, the certificate of conformity is conditional upon full compliance with the provisions of this subpart during and after the model year. You are responsible to establish to our satisfaction that you fully comply with applicable requirements. We may void the certificate of conformity for an engine family if you fail to comply with any provisions of this subpart.
(b) You may certify your engine family to an FEL above an applicable standard based on a projection that you will have enough emission credits to avoid a negative credit balance for each averaging set for the applicable model year. However, except as allowed in § 1051.145(h), we may void the certificate of conformity if you cannot show in your final report that you have enough actual emission credits to offset a deficit for any pollutant in an engine family.
(c) We may void the certificate of conformity for an engine family if you fail to keep records, send reports, or give us information we request.
(d) You may ask for a hearing if we void your certificate under this section (see § 1051.820).
[70 FR 40507, July 13, 2005]

# Subpart I—Definitions and Other Reference Information
§ 1051.801
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part. The definitions apply to all subparts unless we note otherwise. All undefined terms have the meaning the Act gives to them. The definitions follow:
Act
means the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.
Adjustable parameter
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.50.
Aftertreatment
means relating to a catalytic converter, particulate filter, or any other system, component, or technology mounted downstream of the exhaust valve (or exhaust port) whose design function is to decrease emissions in the engine exhaust before it is exhausted to the environment. Exhaust-gas recirculation (EGR), turbochargers, and oxygen sensors are not aftertreatment.
Alcohol-fueled
means relating to a vehicle with an engine that is designed to run using an alcohol fuel. For purposes of this definition, alcohol fuels do not include fuels with a nominal alcohol content below 25 percent by volume.
All-terrain vehicle
means a land-based or amphibious nonroad vehicle that meets the criteria listed in paragraph (1) of this definition; or, alternatively the criteria of paragraph (2) of this definition but not the criteria of paragraph (3) of this definition:
(1) Vehicles designed to travel on four low pressure tires, having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering controls, and intended for use by a single operator and no other passengers are all-terrain vehicles.
(2) Other all-terrain vehicles have three or more wheels and one or more seats, are designed for operation over rough terrain, are intended primarily for transportation, and have a maximum vehicle speed higher than 25 miles per hour. Golf carts generally do not meet these criteria since they are generally not designed for operation over rough terrain.
(3) Vehicles that meet the definition of “offroad utility vehicle” in this section are not all-terrain vehicles. However, § 1051.1(a) specifies that some offroad utility vehicles are required to meet the same requirements as all-terrain vehicles.
Amphibious vehicle
means a vehicle with wheels or tracks that is designed primarily for operation on land and secondarily for operation in water.
Auxiliary emission-control device
means any element of design that senses temperature, motive speed, engine RPM, transmission gear, or any other parameter for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying, or deactivating the operation of any part of the emission-control system.
Brake power
means the usable power output of the engine, not including power required to fuel, lubricate, or heat the engine, circulate coolant to the engine, or to operate aftertreatment devices.
Calibration
means the set of specifications and tolerances specific to a particular design, version, or application of a component or assembly capable of functionally describing its operation over its working range.
Certification
means relating to the process of obtaining a certificate of conformity for an engine family that complies with the emission standards and requirements in this part.
Certified emission level
means the highest deteriorated emission level in an engine family for a given pollutant from either transient or steady-state testing.
Compression-ignition
means relating to a type of reciprocating, internal-combustion engine that is not a spark-ignition engine.
Crankcase emissions
means airborne substances emitted to the atmosphere from any part of the engine crankcase's ventilation or lubrication systems. The crankcase is the housing for the crankshaft and other related internal parts.
Critical emission-related component
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Days
means calendar days unless otherwise specified. For example, where
we specify working days, we mean calendar days excluding weekends and U.S. national holidays.
Designated Compliance Officer
means the Manager, Light-Duty Engine Group, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2000 Traverwood Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48105.
Designated Enforcement Officer
means the Director, Air Enforcement Division (2242A), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460.
Deteriorated emission level
means the emission level that results from applying the appropriate deterioration factor to the official emission result of the emission-data vehicle.
Deterioration factor
means the relationship between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point, expressed in one of the following ways:
(1) For multiplicative deterioration factors, the ratio of emissions at the end of useful life to emissions at the low-hour test point.
(2) For additive deterioration factors, the difference between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point.
Emission-control system
means any device, system, or element of design that controls or reduces the emissions of regulated pollutants from an engine.
Emission-data vehicle
means a vehicle or engine that is tested for certification. This includes vehicles or engines tested to establish deterioration factors.
Emission-related maintenance
means maintenance that substantially affects emissions or is likely to substantially affect emission deterioration.
Engine configuration
means a unique combination of engine hardware and calibration within an engine family. Engines within a single engine configuration differ only with respect to normal production variability or factors unrelated to emissions.
Engine family
has the meaning given in § 1051.230.
Evaporative
means relating to fuel emissions that result from permeation of fuel through the fuel system materials and from ventilation of the fuel system.
Excluded
means relating to an engine that either:
(1) Has been determined not to be a nonroad engine, as specified in 40 CFR 1068.30; or
(2) Is a nonroad engine that is excluded from this part 1051 under the provisions of § 1051.5.
Exempted
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Exhaust-gas recirculation
means a technology that reduces emissions by routing exhaust gases that had been exhausted from the combustion chamber(s) back into the engine to be mixed with incoming air before or during combustion. The use of valve timing to increase the amount of residual exhaust gas in the combustion chamber(s) that is mixed with incoming air before or during combustion is not considered exhaust-gas recirculation for the purposes of this part.
Family emission limit (FEL)
means an emission level declared by the manufacturer to serve in place of an otherwise applicable emission standard under the ABT program in subpart H of this part. The family emission limit must be expressed to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard it replaces. The family emission limit serves as the emission standard for the engine family with respect to all required testing.
Fuel line
means all hoses or tubing designed to contain liquid fuel or fuel vapor. This includes all hoses or tubing for the filler neck, for connections between dual fuel tanks, and for connecting a carbon canister to the fuel tank. This does not include hoses or tubing for routing crankcase vapors to the engine's intake or any other hoses or tubing that are open to the atmosphere.
Fuel system
means all components involved in transporting, metering, and mixing the fuel from the fuel tank to the combustion chamber(s), including the fuel tank, fuel tank cap, fuel pump, fuel filters, fuel lines, carburetor or fuel-injection components, and all fuel-system vents. In the case where the fuel tank cap or other components (excluding fuel lines) are directly mounted on the fuel tank, they are considered to be a part of the fuel tank.
Fuel type
means a general category of fuels such as gasoline or natural gas. There can be multiple grades within a single fuel type, such as winter-grade and all-season gasoline.
Good engineering judgment
means judgments made consistent with generally accepted scientific and engineering principles and all available relevant information. See 40 CFR 1068.5 for the administrative process we use to evaluate good engineering judgment.
Hydrocarbon (HC)
means the hydrocarbon group on which the emission standards are based for each fuel type. For alcohol-fueled engines, HC means total hydrocarbon equivalent (THCE). For all other engines, HC means nonmethane hydrocarbon (NMHC).
Identification number
means a unique specification (for example, a model number/serial number combination) that allows someone to distinguish a particular vehicle or engine from other similar engines.
Low-hour
means relating to an engine with stabilized emissions and represents the undeteriorated emission level. This would generally involve less than 24 hours or 240 kilometers of operation.
Low-permeability material
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1060.801.
Manufacturer
has the meaning given in section 216(1) of the Act. In general, this term includes any person who manufactures a vehicle or engine for sale in the United States or otherwise introduces a new vehicle or engine into commerce in the United States. This includes importers that import vehicles or engines for resale.
Maximum engine power
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 90.3 for 2010 and earlier model years and in § 1051.140 for 2011 and later model years. Note that maximum engine power is based on the engine alone, without regard to any governing or other restrictions from the vehicle installation.
Maximum test speed
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Model year
means one of the following things:
(1) For freshly manufactured vehicles (see definition of “new,” paragraph (1)), model year means one of the following:
(i) Calendar year.
(ii) Your annual new model production period if it is different than the calendar year. This must include January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named. It may not begin before January 2 of the previous calendar year and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year. For seasonal production periods not including January 1,
model year
means the calendar year in which the production occurs, unless you choose to certify the applicable emission family with the following model year. For example, if your production period is June 1, 2010, through November 30, 2010, your model year would be 2010 unless you choose to certify the emission family for model year 2011.
(2) For an engine originally certified and manufactured as a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used in a vehicle subject to the standards and requirements of this part 1051,
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced. For an engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine without having been certified that is later used or intended to be used in a vehicle subject to the standards and requirements of this part 1051,
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine becomes subject to this part 1051. (See definition of “new,” paragraph (2)).
(3) For a nonroad engine that has been previously placed into service in an application covered by 40 CFR part 90, 91, 1048, or 1054, where that engine is installed in a piece of equipment that is covered by this part 1051,
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced (see definition of “new,” paragraph (3)).
(4) For engines that are not freshly manufactured but are installed in new recreational vehicles, model year means the calendar year in which the engine is installed in the recreational vehicle (see definition of “new,” paragraph (4)).
(5) For imported engines:
(i) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(i) of the definition of “new,”
model year
has the meaning given in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition.
(ii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(ii) of the definition of “new,”
model year
means the calendar year in which the vehicle is modified.
(iii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(iii) of the definition of “new”
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine is assembled in its imported configuration, unless specified otherwise in this part or in 40 CFR part 1068.
Motor vehicle
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 85.1703(a).
New
means relating to any of the following things:
(1) A freshly manufactured vehicle for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. This kind of vehicle might commonly be thought of as “brand new.”
In the case of this paragraph (1), the vehicle is new from the time it is produced until the ultimate purchaser receives the title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(2) An engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used in a vehicle subject to the standards and requirements of this part 1051. In this case, the engine is no longer a motor vehicle or stationary engine and becomes new. The engine is no longer new when it is placed into service as a recreational vehicle covered by this part 1051.
(3) A nonroad engine that has been previously placed into service in an application covered by 40 CFR part 90, 91, 1048, or 1054, when that engine is installed in a piece of equipment that is covered by this part 1051. The engine is no longer new when it is placed into service in a recreational vehicle covered by this part 1051. For example, this would apply to a marine propulsion engine that is no longer used in a marine vessel.
(4) An engine not covered by paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition that is intended to be installed in a new vehicle covered by this part 1051. This generally includes installation of used engines in new recreational vehicles. The engine is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the vehicle or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(5) An imported vehicle or engine, subject to the following provisions:
(i) An imported recreational vehicle or recreational-vehicle engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part that meets the criteria of one or more of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, where the original manufacturer holds the certificate, is new as defined by those applicable paragraphs.
(ii) An imported vehicle or engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part, where someone other than the original manufacturer holds the certificate (such as when the engine is modified after its initial assembly), is new when it is imported. It is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the vehicle or engine or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(iii) An imported recreational vehicle or recreational-vehicle engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation is new. This addresses uncertified vehicles and engines initially placed into service that someone seeks to import into the United States. Importation of this kind of vehicle or engine is generally prohibited by 40 CFR part 1068. However, the importation of such a vehicle or engine is not prohibited if it has a model year before 2006, since it is not subject to standards.
Noncompliant
means relating to a vehicle that was originally covered by a certificate of conformity, but is not in the certified configuration or otherwise does not comply with the conditions of the certificate.
Nonconforming
means relating to vehicle not covered by a certificate of conformity that would otherwise be subject to emission standards.
Nonmethane hydrocarbon
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Nonroad
means relating to nonroad engines or equipment that includes nonroad engines.
Nonroad engine
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general this means all internal-combustion engines except motor-vehicle engines, stationary engines, engines used solely for competition, or engines used in aircraft.
Off-highway motorcycle
means a two-wheeled vehicle with a nonroad engine and a seat (excluding marine vessels and aircraft). (Note: highway motorcycles are regulated under 40 CFR part 86.)
Official emission result
means the measured emission rate for an emission-data vehicle on a given duty cycle before the application of any deterioration factor.
Offroad utility vehicle
means a nonroad vehicle that has four or more wheels, seating for two or more persons, is designed for operation over rough terrain, and has either a rear payload capacity of 350 pounds or more or seating for six or more passengers. Vehicles intended primarily for recreational purposes that are not capable of transporting six passengers (such as dune buggies) are not offroad utility vehicles. (
Note:
§ 1051.1(a) specifies that some offroad utility vehicles are required to meet the requirements that apply for all-terrain vehicles.) Unless there is significant information to the contrary, we consider vehicles to be intended primarily for recreational purposes if they are marketed for recreational use, have a rear payload capacity no greater than 1,000 pounds, and meet at least five of the following criteria:
(1) Front and rear suspension travel is greater than 18 cm.
(2) The vehicle has no tilt bed.
(3) The vehicle has no mechanical power take-off (PTO) and no permanently installed hydraulic system for operating utility-oriented accessory devices.
(4) The engine has in-use operating speeds at or above 4,000 rpm.
(5) Maximum vehicle speed is greater than 35 miles per hour.
(6) The speed at which the engine produces peak power is above 4,500 rpm and the engine is equivalent to engines in ATVs certified by the same manufacturer. For the purpose of this paragraph (6), the engine is considered equivalent if it could be included in the same emission family based on the characteristics specified in § 1051.230(b).
(7) Gross Vehicle Weight Rating is no greater than 3,750 pounds. This is the maximum design loaded weight of the vehicle as defined in 40 CFR 86.1803-01, including passengers and cargo.
Owners manual
means a document or collection of documents prepared by the engine manufacturer for the owner or operator to describe appropriate engine maintenance, applicable warranties, and any other information related to operating or keeping the engine. The owners manual is typically provided to the ultimate purchaser at the time of sale. The owners manual may be in paper or electronic format.
Oxides of nitrogen
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Phase 1
means relating to Phase 1 standards of §§ 1051.103, 1051.105, or 1051.107, or other Phase 1 standards specified in subpart B of this part.
Phase 2
means relating to Phase 2 standards of § 1051.103, or other Phase 2 standards specified in subpart B of this part.
Phase 3
means relating to Phase 3 standards of § 1051.103, or other Phase 3 standards specified in subpart B of this part.
Placed into service
means put into initial use for its intended purpose.
Point of first retail sale
means the location at which the initial retail sale occurs. This generally means an equipment dealership, but may also include an engine seller or distributor in cases where loose engines are sold to the general public for uses such as replacement engines.
Recreational
means, for purposes of this part, relating to snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, off-highway motorcycles, and other vehicles that we regulate under this part. Note that 40 CFR parts 90 and 1054 apply to engines used in other recreational vehicles.
Revoke
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Round
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001, unless otherwise specified.
Scheduled maintenance
means adjusting, repairing, removing, disassembling, cleaning, or replacing components or systems periodically to keep a part or system from failing, malfunctioning, or wearing prematurely. It also may mean actions you expect are necessary to correct an overt indication of failure or malfunction for which
periodic maintenance is not appropriate.
Small-volume manufacturer
means one of the following:
(1) For motorcycles and ATVs, a manufacturer that sold motorcycles or ATVs before 2003 and had annual U.S.-directed production of no more than 5,000 off-road motorcycles and ATVs (combined number) in 2002 and all earlier calendar years. For manufacturers owned by a parent company, the limit applies to the production of the parent company and all of its subsidiaries.
(2) For snowmobiles, a manufacturer that sold snowmobiles before 2003 and had annual U.S.-directed production of no more than 300 snowmobiles in 2002 and all earlier model years. For manufacturers owned by a parent company, the limit applies to the production of the parent company and all of its subsidiaries.
(3) A manufacturer that we designate to be a small-volume manufacturer under § 1051.635.
Snowmobile
means a vehicle designed to operate outdoors only over snow-covered ground, with a maximum width of 1.5 meters or less.
Spark-ignition
means relating to a gasoline-fueled engine or any other type of engine with a spark plug (or other sparking device) and with operating characteristics significantly similar to the theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark-ignition engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air flow to control power during normal operation.
Suspend
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Test sample
means the collection of engines selected from the population of an engine family for emission testing. This may include testing for certification, production-line testing, or in-use testing.
Test vehicle or engine
means an engine in a test sample.
Total hydrocarbon
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This generally means the combined mass of organic compounds measured by the specified procedure for measuring total hydrocarbon, expressed as a hydrocarbon with a hydrogen-to-carbon mass ratio of 1.85:1.
Total hydrocarbon equivalent
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Ultimate purchaser
means, with respect to any new nonroad equipment or new nonroad engine, the first person who in good faith purchases such new nonroad equipment or new nonroad engine for purposes other than resale.
Ultraviolet light
means electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength between 300 and 400 nanometers.
United States
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Upcoming model year
means for an engine family the model year after the one currently in production.
U.S.-directed production volume
means the number of vehicle units, subject to the requirements of this part, produced by a manufacturer for which the manufacturer has a reasonable assurance that sale was or will be made to ultimate purchasers in the United States. This includes vehicles for which the location of first retail sale is in a state that has applicable state emission regulations for that model year, unless we specify otherwise.
Useful life
means the period during which a vehicle is required to comply with all applicable emission standards, specified as a given number of calendar years and kilometers (whichever comes first). In some cases, useful life is also limited by a given number of hours of engine operation. If an engine has no odometer (or hour meter), the specified number of kilometers (or hours) does not limit the period during which an in-use vehicle is required to comply with emission standards, unless the degree of service accumulation can be verified separately. The useful life for an engine family must be at least as long as both of the following:
(1) The expected average service life before the vehicle is remanufactured or retired from service.
(2) The minimum useful life value.
Void
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Volatile liquid fuel
means any fuel other than diesel or biodiesel that is a liquid at atmospheric pressure and has a Reid Vapor Pressure higher than 2.0 pounds per square inch.
We (us, our)
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and any authorized representatives.
Wide-open throttle
means maximum throttle opening. Unless this is specified at a given speed, it refers to maximum throttle opening at maximum speed. For electronically controlled or other engines with multiple possible fueling rates, wide-open throttle also means the maximum fueling rate at maximum throttle opening under test conditions.
[70 FR 40507, July 13, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 59257, Oct. 8, 2008; 75 FR 23024, Apr. 30, 2010; 88 FR 4667, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1051.805
What symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations does this part use?
The following symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations apply to this part:
°—degrees.
ASTM—American Society for Testing and Materials.
ATV—all-terrain vehicle.
cc—cubic centimeters.
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations.
CH
4
methane.
cm—centimeter.
C—Celsius.
CO—carbon monoxide.
CO
2
—carbon dioxide.
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency.
F—Fahrenheit.
g—grams.
g/gal/day—grams per gallon per test day.
g/m
2
/day—grams per meter-square per test day.
HC—hydrocarbon.
Hg—mercury.
hr—hours.
km—kilometer.
kW—kilowatt.
LPG—liquefied petroleum gas.
m—meters.
mm—millimeters.
mW—milliwatts.
N
2
O nitrous oxide.
NARA—National Archives and Records Administration.
NMHC—nonmethane hydrocarbons.
NO
X
—oxides of nitrogen (NO and NO
X
).
psig—pounds per square inches of gauge pressure.
rpm—revolutions per minute.
SAE—Society of Automotive Engineers.
SI—spark-ignition.
THC—total hydrocarbon.
THCE—total hydrocarbon equivalent.
U.S.C.—United States Code.
[67 FR 68347, Nov. 8, 2002, as amended at 70 FR 40510, July 13, 2005; 74 FR 56511, Oct. 30, 2009]
§ 1051.815
What provisions apply to confidential information?
The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.10 and 1068.11 apply for information you submit under this part.
[88 FR 4667, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1051.820
How do I request a hearing?
(a) You may request a hearing under certain circumstances, as described elsewhere in this part. To do this, you must file a written request, including a description of your objection and any supporting data, within 30 days after we make a decision.
(b) For a hearing you request under the provisions of this part, we will approve your request if we find that your request raises a substantial factual issue.
(c) If we agree to hold a hearing, we will use the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G.
[70 FR 40511, July 13, 2005]
§ 1051.825
What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?
Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
), the Office of Management and Budget approves the reporting and recordkeeping specified in the applicable regulations. The following items illustrate the kind of reporting and recordkeeping we require for vehicles regulated under this part:
(a) We specify the following requirements related to certification in this part 1051:
(1) In §§ 1051.20 and 1051.25 we describe special provisions for manufacturers to certify recreational engines instead of vehicles.
(2) [Reserved]
(3) In § 1051.145 we include various reporting and recordkeeping requirements related to interim provisions.
(4) In subpart C of this part we identify a wide range of information required to certify vehicles.
(5) In §§ 1051.345 and 1051.350 we specify certain records related to production-line testing.
(6) [Reserved]
(7) In § 1051.501 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published vehicle-based test procedures.
(8) In subpart G of this part we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various special compliance provisions.
(9) In §§ 1051.725, 1051.730, and 1051.735 we specify certain records related to averaging, banking, and trading.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) We specify the following requirements related to testing in 40 CFR part 1065:
(1) In 40 CFR 1065.2 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.
(2) In 40 CFR 1065.10 and 1065.12 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published engine-based test procedures.
(3) In 40 CFR 1065.25 we establish basic guidelines for storing test information.
(4) In 40 CFR 1065.695 we identify data that may be appropriate for collecting during testing of in-use engines or vehicles using portable analyzers.
(d) We specify the following requirements related to the general compliance provisions in 40 CFR part 1068:
(1) In 40 CFR 1068.5 we establish a process for evaluating good engineering judgment related to testing and certification.
(2) In 40 CFR 1068.25 we describe general provisions related to sending and keeping information
(3) In 40 CFR 1068.27 we require manufacturers to make engines or vehicles available for our testing or inspection if we make such a request.
(4) In 40 CFR 1068.105 we require manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels from engine manufacturers.
(5) In 40 CFR 1068.120 we specify recordkeeping related to rebuilding engines.
(6) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various exemptions.
(7) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart D, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to importing engines or vehicles.
(8) In 40 CFR 1068.450 and 1068.455 we specify certain records related to testing production-line engines in a selective enforcement audit.
(9) In 40 CFR 1068.501 we specify certain records related to investigating and reporting emission-related defects.
(10) In 40 CFR 1068.525 and 1068.530 we specify certain records related to recalling nonconforming vehicles.
[73 FR 59258, Oct. 8, 2008]
Pt. 1054

# PART 1054—CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW, SMALL NONROAD SPARK-IGNITION ENGINES AND EQUIPMENT

# Subpart A—Overview and Applicability
Sec.
1054.1
Does this part apply for my engines and equipment?
1054.2
Who is responsible for compliance?
1054.5
Which nonroad engines are excluded from this part's requirements?
1054.10
How is this part organized?
1054.15
Do any other CFR parts apply to me?
1054.20
What requirements apply to my equipment?
1054.30
Submission of information.

# Subpart B—Emission Standards and Related Requirements
1054.101
What emission standards and requirements must my engines meet?
1054.103
What exhaust emission standards must my handheld engines meet?
1054.105
What exhaust emission standards must my nonhandheld engines meet?
1054.107
What is the useful life period for meeting exhaust emission standards?
1054.110
What evaporative emission standards must my handheld equipment meet?
1054.112
What evaporative emission standards must my nonhandheld equipment meet?
1054.115
What other requirements apply?
1054.120
What emission-related warranty requirements apply to me?
1054.125
What maintenance instructions must I give to buyers?
1054.130
What installation instructions must I give to equipment manufacturers?
1054.135
How must I label and identify the engines I produce?
1054.140
What is my engine's maximum engine power and displacement?
1054.145
Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?

# Subpart C—Certifying Emission Families
1054.201
What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity?
1054.205
What must I include in my application?
1054.210
May I get preliminary approval before I complete my application?
1054.220
How do I amend my maintenance instructions?
1054.225
How do I amend my application for certification?
1054.230
How do I select emission families?
1054.235
What testing requirements apply for certification?
1054.240
How do I demonstrate that my emission family complies with exhaust emission standards?
1054.245
How do I determine deterioration factors from exhaust durability testing?
1054.250
What records must I keep and what reports must I send to EPA?
1054.255
What decisions may EPA make regarding a certificate of conformity?

# Subpart D—Production-line Testing
1054.300
Applicability.
1054.301
When must I test my production-line engines?
1054.305
How must I prepare and test my production-line engines?
1054.310
How must I select engines for production-line testing?
1054.315
How do I know when my engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
1054.320
What happens if one of my production-line engines fails to meet emission standards?
1054.325
What happens if an engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
1054.330
May I sell engines from an engine family with a suspended certificate of conformity?
1054.335
How do I ask EPA to reinstate my suspended certificate?
1054.340
When may EPA revoke my certificate under this subpart and how may I sell these engines again?
1054.345
What production-line testing records must I send to EPA?
1054.350
What records must I keep?

# Subpart E—In-use Testing
1054.401
General provisions.

# Subpart F—Test Procedures
1054.501
How do I run a valid emission test?
1054.505
How do I test engines?
1054.520
What testing must I perform to establish deterioration factors?

# Subpart G—Special Compliance Provisions
1054.601
What compliance provisions apply?
1054.610
What is the exemption for delegated final assembly?
1054.612
What special provisions apply for equipment manufacturers modifying certified nonhandheld engines?
1054.615
What is the exemption for engines certified to standards for Large SI engines?
1054.620
What are the provisions for exempting engines used solely for competition?
1054.630
What provisions apply for importation of individual items for personal use?
1054.635
What special provisions apply for small-volume engine and equipment manufacturers?
1054.645
What special provisions apply for converting an engine to use an alternate fuel?
1054.650
What special provisions apply for adding or changing governors?
1054.655
What special provisions apply for installing and removing altitude kits?
1054.660
What are the provisions for exempting emergency rescue equipment?
1054.690
What bond requirements apply for certified engines?

# Subpart H—Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
1054.701
General provisions.
1054.705
How do I generate and calculate exhaust emission credits?
1054.706
How do I generate and calculate evaporative emission credits?
1054.710
How do I average emission credits?
1054.715
How do I bank emission credits?
1054.720
How do I trade emission credits?
1054.725
What must I include in my application for certification?
1054.730
What ABT reports must I send to EPA?
1054.735
What records must I keep?
1054.740
What special provisions apply for generating and using emission credits?
1054.745
What can happen if I do not comply with the provisions of this subpart?

# Subpart I—Definitions and Other Reference Information
1054.801
What definitions apply to this part?
1054.805
What symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations does this part use?
1054.815
What provisions apply to confidential information?
1054.820
How do I request a hearing?
1054.825
What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?
Appendix A to Part 1054—Summary of Previous Emission Standards
Appendix B to Part 1054—Duty Cycles for Laboratory Testing

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.

# Source:
73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Overview and Applicability
§ 1054.1
Does this part apply for my engines and equipment?
(a) Except as provided in § 1054.5, the regulations in this part 1054 apply as follows:
(1) The requirements of this part related to exhaust emissions apply to new, nonroad spark-ignition engines with maximum engine power at or below 19 kW. This includes auxiliary marine spark-ignition engines.
(2) The requirements of this part related to evaporative emissions apply as specified in §§ 1054.110 and 1054.112 to fuel systems used with engines subject to exhaust emission standards in this part if the engines use a volatile liquid fuel (such as gasoline).
(3) This part 1054 applies starting with the model years noted in the following table:
Table 1 to § 1054.1—Part 1054 Applicability by Model Year
Engine type
Engine
displacement
Model year
Handheld
all
2010
Nonhandheld
displacement
225 cc
2012
Nonhandheld
displacement ≥225 cc
2011
(4) This part 1054 applies for other spark-ignition engines as follows:
(i) The provisions of §§ 1054.620 and 1054.801 apply for new engines used solely for competition beginning January 1, 2010.
(ii) The provisions of §§ 1054.660 and 1054.801 apply for new engines used in emergency rescue equipment beginning January 1, 2010.
(5) We specify provisions in §§ 1054.145(f) and 1054.740 that allow for meeting the requirements of this part before the dates shown in Table 1 to this section. Engines, fuel-system components, or equipment certified to the standards in §§ 1054.145(f) and 1054.740 are subject to all the requirements of this part as if these optional standards were mandatory.
(b) Although the definition of nonroad engine in 40 CFR 1068.30 excludes certain engines used in stationary applications, stationary engines are required under 40 CFR part 60, subpart JJJJ, to comply with this part starting with the model years shown in Table 1 to this section.
(c) Engines originally meeting Phase 1 or Phase 2 standards as specified in appendix I of this part remain subject to those standards. Those engines remain subject to recall provisions as specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart F, throughout the useful life corresponding to the original certification. Also, tampering and defeat-device prohibitions continue to apply for those engines as specified in 40 CFR 1068.101.
(d) The regulations in this part optionally apply to engines with maximum engine power at or below 30 kW and with displacement at or below 1,000 cubic centimeters that would otherwise be covered by 40 CFR part 1048. See 40 CFR 1048.615 for provisions related to this allowance.
(e) In certain cases, the regulations in this part 1054 apply to propulsion marine engines that would otherwise be covered by 40 CFR part 1045. See 40 CFR 1045.610 for provisions related to these allowances.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23024, Apr. 30, 2010; 86 FR 34516, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.2
Who is responsible for compliance?
(a) The requirements and prohibitions of this part apply to manufacturers of engines and equipment, as described in § 1054.1. The requirements of this part are generally addressed to manufacturers subject to this part's requirements. The term “you” generally means the certifying manufacturer. For provisions related to exhaust emissions, this generally means the engine manufacturer, especially for issues related to certification (including production-line testing, reporting, etc.). For provisions related to certification with respect to evaporative emissions, this generally means the equipment manufacturer. Note that for engines that become new after being placed into service (such as engines converted from highway or stationary use), the requirements that normally apply for manufacturers of freshly manufactured engines apply to the importer or any other entity we allow to obtain a certificate of conformity.
(b) Equipment manufacturers must meet applicable requirements as described in § 1054.20. Engine manufacturers that assemble an engine's complete fuel system are considered to be the equipment manufacturer with respect to evaporative emissions (see 40 CFR 1060.5). Note that certification requirements for component manufacturers are described in 40 CFR part 1060.
[86 FR 34516, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.5
Which nonroad engines are excluded from this part's requirements?
This part does not apply to the following nonroad engines:
(a) Engines that are certified to meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 1051 (for example, engines used in snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles). Engines that are otherwise subject to 40 CFR part 1051 but not required to be certified (such as engines exempted under 40 CFR part 1051) are also excluded from this part 1054, unless the regulations in 40 CFR part 1051 specifically require them to comply with the requirements of this part 1054.
(b) Engines that are certified to meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 1048, subject to the provisions of § 1054.615.
(c) Propulsion marine engines. See 40 CFR parts 91 and 1045. Note that the evaporative emission standards of this part also do not apply with respect to auxiliary marine engines as described in § 1054.20.
(d) Engines used in reduced-scale models of vehicles that are not capable of transporting a person.
§ 1054.10
How is this part organized?
This part 1054 is divided into the following subparts:
(a) Subpart A of this part defines the applicability of this part 1054 and gives an overview of regulatory requirements.
(b) Subpart B of this part describes the emission standards and other requirements that must be met to certify engines under this part. Note that § 1054.145 discusses certain interim requirements and compliance provisions that apply only for a limited time.
(c) Subpart C of this part describes how to apply for a certificate of conformity.
(d) Subpart D of this part describes general provisions for testing production-line engines.
(e) Subpart E of this part describes general provisions for testing in-use engines.
(f) Subpart F of this part describes how to test your engines (including references to other parts of the Code of Federal Regulations).
(g) Subpart G of this part and 40 CFR part 1068 describe requirements, prohibitions, and other provisions that apply to engine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, owners, operators, rebuilders, and all others.
(h) Subpart H of this part describes how you may generate and use exhaust and evaporative emission credits to certify your engines and equipment.
(i) Subpart I of this part contains definitions and other reference information.
§ 1054.15
Do any other CFR parts apply to me?
(a) Part 1060 of this chapter describes standards and procedures that apply for controlling evaporative emissions from engines fueled by gasoline or other volatile liquid fuels and the associated fuel systems. See §§ 1054.110 and 1054.112 for information about how that part applies.
(b) Part 1065 of this chapter describes procedures and equipment specifications for testing engines to measure exhaust emissions. Subpart F of this part 1054 describes how to apply the provisions of part 1065 of this chapter to determine whether engines meet the exhaust emission standards in this part.
(c) The requirements and prohibitions of part 1068 of this chapter apply to everyone, including anyone who manufactures, imports, installs, owns, operates, or rebuilds any of the engines subject to this part 1054, or equipment containing these engines. Part 1068 of this chapter describes general provisions, including these seven areas:
(1) Prohibited acts and penalties for engine manufacturers, equipment manufacturers, and others.
(2) Rebuilding and other aftermarket changes.
(3) Exclusions and exemptions for certain engines.
(4) Importing engines.
(5) Selective enforcement audits of your production.
(6) Defect reporting and recall.
(7) Procedures for hearings.
(d) Other parts of this chapter apply if referenced in this part.
§ 1054.20
What requirements apply to my equipment?
(a) If you manufacture equipment using engines certified under this part, your equipment must meet all applicable emission standards with the engine and fuel system installed.
(b) Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, all equipment subject to the exhaust standards of this part must meet the evaporative emission standards of 40 CFR part 1060, as described in §§ 1054.110 and 1054.112.
(c) Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, you must identify and label equipment you produce under this section consistent with the requirements of 40 CFR 1060.135.
(d) You may need to certify your equipment or fuel systems as described in 40 CFR 1060.1 and 1060.601.
(e) You must follow all emission-related installation instructions from the certifying manufacturers as described in § 1054.130, 40 CFR 1060.130, and 40 CFR 1068.105. Failure to follow these instructions subjects you to civil penalties as described in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart B.
(f) Motor vehicles and marine vessels may contain engines subject to the exhaust emission standards in this part 1054. Evaporative emission standards apply to these products as follows:
(1) Marine vessels using spark-ignition engines are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 1045. The vessels are not required to comply with the evaporative emission standards and related requirements of this part 1054.
(2) Motor vehicles are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 86. They are not required to comply with the evaporative emission standards and related requirements of this part 1054.
§ 1054.30
Submission of information.
Unless we specify otherwise, send all reports and requests for approval to the Designated Compliance Officer (see § 1054.801). See § 1054.825 for additional reporting and recordkeeping provisions.
[86 FR 34517, June 29, 2021]

# Subpart B—Emission Standards and Related Requirements
§ 1054.101
What emission standards and requirements must my engines meet?
(a)
Exhaust emissions.
You must show that your engines meet the following exhaust emission standards, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section:
(1) Handheld engines must meet the exhaust emission standards in § 1054.103.
(2) Nonhandheld engines must meet the exhaust emission standards in § 1054.105.
(3) All engines must meet the requirements in § 1054.115.
(b)
Evaporative emissions.
Except as specified in § 1054.20, new equipment using engines that run on a volatile liquid fuel (such as gasoline) must meet the evaporative emission requirements of 40 CFR part 1060. The requirements of 40 CFR part 1060 that apply are considered also to be requirements of this part 1054. Marine vessels using auxiliary marine engines subject to this part must meet the evaporative emission requirements in 40 CFR 1045.112 instead of the evaporative emission requirements in this part. We specify evaporative emission requirements for handheld and nonhandheld equipment separately in §§ 1054.110 and 1054.112.
(c)
Wintertime engines.
Emission standards regulating HC and NO
X
exhaust emissions are optional for wintertime engines. However, if you certify an emission family to such standards, those engines are subject to all the requirements of this part as if these optional standards were mandatory.
(d)
Two-stroke snowthrower engines.
Two-stroke snowthrower engines may meet exhaust emission standards that apply to handheld engines with the same engine displacement instead of the nonhandheld standards that would otherwise apply.
(e)
Relationship between handheld and nonhandheld engines.
Any engines certified to the nonhandheld emission standards in § 1054.105 may be used in either handheld or nonhandheld equipment. Engines above 80 cc certified to the handheld emission standards in § 1054.103 may not be used in nonhandheld equipment. 40 CFR 1068.101 prohibits the introduction into commerce or importation of such nonhandheld equipment except as specified in this paragraph (e). For purposes of the requirements of this part, engines at or below 80 cc are considered handheld engines, but may be installed in either handheld or nonhandheld equipment. These engines are subject to handheld exhaust emission standards; the equipment in which they are installed are subject to handheld evaporative emission standards starting with the model years specified in this part 1054.
See
§ 1054.701(c) for special provisions related to emission credits for engine families with displacement at or below 80 cc where those engines are installed in nonhandheld equipment.
(f)
Interim provisions.
It is important that you read § 1054.145 to determine if there are other interim requirements or interim compliance provisions that apply for a limited time.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 68462, Nov. 8, 2010]
§ 1054.103
What exhaust emission standards must my handheld engines meet?
(a)
Emission standards.
Exhaust emissions from your handheld engines may not exceed the emission standards in Table 1 to this section. Measure emissions using the applicable steady-state test procedures described in subpart F of this part.
Table 1 to § 1054.103—Phase 3 Emission Standards for Handheld Engines (
g/k
W-
hr)
Engine displacement class
HC + NO
X
CO
Class III
50
805
Class IV
50
805
Class V
72
603
(b)
Averaging, banking, and trading.
You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program for HC + NO
X
emissions as described in subpart H of this part. You may not generate or use emission credits for CO emissions. To generate or use emission credits, you must specify a family emission limit for each engine family you include in the ABT program. These family emission limits serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in this section. An engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meets the emission standards using emission credits and the engines within the family meet the family emission limit. The following FEL caps are the maximum values you may specify for family emission limits:
(1) 336 g/kW-hr for Class III engines.
(2) 275 g/kW-hr for Class IV engines.
(3) 186 g/kW-hr for Class V engines.
(c)
Fuel types.
The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for engines using the fuel type on which the engines in the emission family are designed to operate. You must meet the numerical emission standards for hydrocarbon in this section based on the following types of hydrocarbon emissions for engines powered by the following fuels:
(1) Alcohol-fueled engines: THCE emissions.
(2) Natural gas-fueled engines: NMHC emissions.
(3) Other engines: THC emissions.
(d)
Useful life.
Your engines must meet the exhaust emission standards in paragraph (a) of this section over their full useful life as described in § 1054.107.
(e)
Applicability for testing.
The emission standards in this subpart apply to all testing, including certification, production-line, and in-use testing.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34517, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.105
What exhaust emission standards must my nonhandheld engines meet?
(a)
Emission standards.
Exhaust emissions from your engines may not exceed the emission standards in Table 1 to this section. Measure emissions
using the applicable steady-state test procedures described in subpart F of this part.
Table 1 to § 1054.105—Phase 3 Emission Standards for Nonhandheld Engines (
g/k
W-
hr)
Engine displacement class
HC + NO
X
Primary CO standard
CO
standard
for marine
generator
engines
Class I
10.0
610
5.0
Class II
8.0
610
5.0
(b)
Averaging, banking, and trading.
You may generate or use emission credits under the averaging, banking, and trading (ABT) program for HC + NO
X
emissions as described in subpart H of this part. You may not generate or use emission credits for CO emissions. To generate or use emission credits, you must specify a family emission limit for each engine family you include in the ABT program. These family emission limits serve as the emission standards for the engine family with respect to all required testing instead of the standards specified in this section. An engine family meets emission standards even if its family emission limit is higher than the standard, as long as you show that the whole averaging set of applicable engine families meets the emission standards using emission credits, and the engines within the family meet the family emission limit. The following FEL caps are the maximum values you may specify for family emission limits:
(1) 40.0 g/kW-hr for Class I engines with displacement below 100 cc.
(2) 16.1 g/kW-hr for Class I engines with displacement at or above 100 cc.
(3) 12.1 for Class II engines.
(c)
Fuel types.
The exhaust emission standards in this section apply for engines using the fuel type on which the engines in the emission family are designed to operate. You must meet the numerical emission standards for hydrocarbon in this section based on the following types of hydrocarbon emissions for engines powered by the following fuels:
(1) Alcohol-fueled engines: THCE emissions.
(2) Natural gas-fueled engines: NMHC emissions.
(3) Other engines: THC emissions.
(d)
Useful life.
Your engines must meet the exhaust emission standards in paragraph (a) of this section over their full useful life as described in § 1054.107.
(e)
Applicability for testing.
The emission standards in this subpart apply to all testing, including certification, production-line, and in-use testing.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34517, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.107
What is the useful life period for meeting exhaust emission standards?
This section describes an engine family's useful life, which is the period during which engines are required to comply with all emission standards that apply. The useful life period is five years or a number of hours of operation, whichever comes first, as described in this section.
(a) Determine the useful life period for exhaust requirements as follows:
(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, the useful life period for exhaust requirements is the number of engine operating hours from Table 1 to this section that most closely matches the expected median in-use life of your engines. The median in-use life of your engine is the shorter of the following values:
(i) The median in-use life of equipment into which the engine is expected to be installed.
(ii) The median in-use life of the engine without being scrapped or rebuilt.
Table 1 to § 1054.107—Nominal Useful Life Periods
Nonhandheld
Residential
Extended life residential
1
Commercial
Class I
125
250
500
Class II
250
500
1,000
Handheld
Light use
Medium use
Heavy use
Class III—V
50
125
300
1
Or “General Purpose.”
(2) You may select a longer useful life for nonhandheld engines than that specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in 100-hour increments not to exceed 3,000 hours for Class I engines or 5,000 hours for Class II engines. For engine families generating emission credits, you may do this only with our approval. These are considered “Heavy Commercial” engines.
(3) The minimum useful life period for engines with maximum engine power above 19 kW is 1,000 hours (see § 1054.1(d)).
(b) Keep any available information to support your selection and make it available to us if we ask for it. We may require you to certify to a different useful life value from the table if we determine that the selected useful life value is not justified by the data. We may consider any relevant information, including your product warranty statements and marketing materials regarding engine life, in making this determination. We may void your certificate if we determine that you intentionally selected an incorrect value. Support your selection based on any of the following information:
(1) Surveys of the life spans of the equipment in which the subject engines are installed.
(2) Engineering evaluations of field aged engines to ascertain when engine performance deteriorates to the point where usefulness and/or reliability is impacted to a degree sufficient to necessitate overhaul or replacement.
(3) Failure reports from engine customers.
(4) Engineering evaluations of the durability, in hours, of specific engine technologies, engine materials, or engine designs.
§ 1054.110
What evaporative emission standards must my handheld equipment meet?
The following evaporative emission requirements apply for handheld equipment over a useful life of five years:
(a)
Fuel line permeation.
Nonmetal fuel lines must meet the permeation requirements for EPA Nonroad Fuel Lines or EPA Cold-Weather Fuel Lines as specified in 40 CFR 1060.102. These requirements apply starting in the 2012 model year, except that they apply starting in the 2013 model year for emission families involving small-volume emission families that are not used in cold-weather equipment. For fuel lines used in cold-weather equipment, you may generate or use emission credits to show compliance with these permeation standards through 2015 as described in § 1054.145(h).
(b)
Tank permeation.
Fuel tanks must meet the permeation requirements specified in 40 CFR 1060.103. The requirements in 40 CFR 1060.103 apply for handheld equipment starting in the 2010 model year, except that they apply starting in the 2011 model year for structurally integrated nylon fuel tanks, in the 2012 model year for handheld equipment using nonhandheld engines, and in the 2013 model year for all small-volume emission families. For nonhandheld equipment using engines at or below 80 cc, the requirements of this paragraph (b) apply starting in the 2012 model year. You may generate or use emission credits to show compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (b) under the averaging, banking, and trading program as described in subpart H of this part. FEL caps apply as specified in
§ 1054.112(b)(1) through (3) starting in the 2015 model year.
(c)
Running loss.
The running loss requirements specified in 40 CFR part 1060 do not apply for handheld equipment.
(d)
Other requirements.
The provisions of 40 CFR 1060.101(e) and (f) include general requirements that apply to all nonroad equipment subject to evaporative emission standards.
(e)
Engine manufacturers.
To the extent that engine manufacturers produce engines with fuel lines or fuel tanks, those fuel-system components must meet the requirements specified in this section. The timing of new standards is based on the date of manufacture of the engine.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34517, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.112
What evaporative emission standards must my nonhandheld equipment meet?
The evaporative emission requirements of this section apply starting in the 2011 model year for equipment using Class II engines and in the 2012 model year for equipment using Class I engines over a useful life of five years. See § 1054.110 for requirements that apply for nonhandheld equipment using engines at or below 80 cc.
(a)
Fuel line permeation.
Nonmetal fuel lines must meet the permeation requirements for EPA Nonroad Fuel Lines as specified in 40 CFR 1060.102.
(b)
Tank permeation.
Fuel tanks must meet the permeation requirements specified in 40 CFR 1060.103. Equipment manufacturers may generate or use emission credits to show compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (b) under the averaging, banking, and trading program as described in subpart H of this part. Starting in the 2014 model year for Class II equipment and in the 2015 model year for Class I equipment, the following FEL caps represent the maximum values for family emission limits that you may use for your fuel tanks:
(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) of this section, you may not use fuel tanks with a family emission limit that exceeds 5.0 g/m
2
/day for testing at a nominal temperature of 28 °C, or 8.3 g/m
2
/day for testing at a nominal temperature of 40 °C.
(2) For small-volume emission families, you may not use fuel tanks with a family emission limit that exceeds 8.0 g/m
2
/day for testing at a nominal temperature of 28 °C, or 13.3 g/m
2
/day for testing at a nominal temperature of 40 °C.
(3) FEL caps do not apply to fuel caps that are certified separately to meet permeation standards.
(c)
Running loss.
Running loss requirements apply as specified in 40 CFR 1060.104.
(d)
Diurnal emissions.
Nonhandheld equipment may optionally be certified to the diurnal emission standards specified in 40 CFR 1060.105, in which case the permeation standards specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section do not apply.
(e)
Other requirements.
The provisions of 40 CFR 1060.101(e) and (f) include general requirements that apply to all nonroad equipment subject to evaporative emission standards.
(f)
Engine manufacturers.
To the extent that engine manufacturers produce engines with fuel lines or fuel tanks, those fuel-system components must meet the requirements specified in this section. The timing of new standards is based on the date of manufacture of the engine.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 73 FR 73789, Dec. 4, 2008]
§ 1054.115
What other requirements apply?
The following requirements apply with respect to engines that are required to meet the emission standards of this part:
(a)
Crankcase emissions.
Crankcase emissions may not be discharged directly into the ambient atmosphere from any engine throughout its useful life, except as follows:
(1) Snowthrower engines may discharge crankcase emissions to the ambient atmosphere if the emissions are added to the exhaust emissions (either physically or mathematically) during all emission testing. If you take advantage of this exception, you must do the following things:
(i) Manufacture the engines so that all crankcase emissions can be routed
into the applicable sampling systems specified in 40 CFR part 1065.
(ii) Account for deterioration in crankcase emissions when determining exhaust deterioration factors.
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (a), crankcase emissions that are routed to the exhaust upstream of exhaust aftertreatment during all operation are not considered to be discharged directly into the ambient atmosphere.
(b)
Adjustable parameters.
Engines that have adjustable parameters must meet all the requirements of this part for any adjustment in the practically adjustable range. We may require that you set adjustable parameters to any specification within the practically adjustable range during any testing, including certification testing, production-line testing, or in-use testing. You may ask us to limit idle-speed or carburetor adjustments to a smaller range than the practically adjustable range if you show us that the engine will not be adjusted outside of this smaller range during in-use operation without significantly degrading engine performance. General provisions for adjustable parameters apply as specified in 40 CFR 1068.50.
(c)
Altitude adjustments.
Engines must meet applicable emission standards for valid tests conducted under the ambient conditions specified in 40 CFR 1065.520. Except as specified in § 1054.145(c), engines must meet applicable emission standards at all specified atmospheric pressures, except that for atmospheric pressures below 94.0 kPa you may rely on an altitude kit for all testing if you meet the requirements specified in § 1054.205(r). If you rely on an altitude kit for certification, you must identify in the owners manual the altitude range for which you expect proper engine performance and emission control with and without the altitude kit; you must also state in the owners manual that operating the engine with the wrong engine configuration at a given altitude may increase its emissions and decrease fuel efficiency and performance. See § 1054.145(c) for special provisions that apply for handheld engines.
(d)
Prohibited controls.
You may not design your engines with emission control devices, systems, or elements of design that cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety while operating. For example, an engine may not emit a noxious or toxic substance it would otherwise not emit that contributes to such an unreasonable risk.
(e)
Defeat devices.
You may not equip your engines with a defeat device. A defeat device is an auxiliary emission control device that reduces the effectiveness of emission controls under conditions that the engine may reasonably be expected to encounter during normal operation and use. This does not apply for altitude kits installed or removed consistent with § 1054.655. This also does not apply to auxiliary emission control devices you identify in your application for certification if any of the following is true:
(1) The conditions of concern were substantially included in the applicable duty-cycle test procedures described in subpart F of this part.
(2) You show your design is necessary to prevent engine (or equipment) damage or accidents.
(3) The reduced effectiveness applies only to starting the engine.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 4667, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1054.120
What emission-related warranty requirements apply to me?
The requirements of this section apply to the manufacturer certifying with respect to exhaust emissions. See 40 CFR part 1060 for the warranty requirements related to evaporative emissions.
(a)
General requirements.
You must warrant to the ultimate purchaser and each subsequent purchaser that the new engine, including all parts of its emission control system, meets two conditions:
(1) It is designed, built, and equipped so it conforms at the time of sale to the ultimate purchaser with the requirements of this part.
(2) It is free from defects in materials and workmanship that may keep it from meeting these requirements.
(b)
Warranty period.
Your emission-related warranty must be valid during the periods specified in this paragraph (b). You may offer an emission-related
warranty more generous than we require. The emission-related warranty for the engine may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for the engine. Similarly, the emission-related warranty for any component may not be shorter than any published warranty you offer without charge for that component. If an engine has no hour meter, we base the warranty periods in this paragraph (b) only on the engine's age (in years). The warranty period begins on the date of sale to the ultimate purchaser. The minimum warranty periods are as follows:
(1) The minimum warranty period is two years except as allowed under paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section.
(2) We may establish a shorter warranty period for handheld engines subject to severe service in seasonal equipment if we determine that these engines are likely to operate for a number of hours greater than the applicable useful life within 24 months. You must request this shorter warranty period in your application for certification or in an earlier submission.
(3) For engines equipped with hour meters, you may deny warranty claims for engines that have accumulated a number of hours greater than 50 percent of the applicable useful life.
(c)
Components covered.
The emission-related warranty covers all components whose failure would increase an engine's emissions of any regulated pollutant, including components listed in 40 CFR part 1068, appendix I, and components from any other system you develop to control emissions. The emission-related warranty covers these components even if another company produces the component. Your emission-related warranty does not need to cover components whose failure would not increase an engine's emissions of any regulated pollutant.
(d)
Limited applicability.
You may deny warranty claims under this section if the operator caused the problem through improper maintenance or use, as described in 40 CFR 1068.115.
(e)
Owners manual.
Describe in the owners manual the emission-related warranty provisions from this section that apply to the engine. Include instructions for obtaining warranty service consistent with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section.
(f)
Requirements related to warranty claims.
You are required at a minimum to meet the following conditions to ensure that owners will be able to promptly obtain warranty repairs:
(1) You must provide and monitor a toll-free telephone number and an e-mail address for owners to receive information about how to make a warranty claim, and how to make arrangements for authorized repairs.
(2) You must provide a source of replacement parts within the United States. For parts that you import, this requires you to have at least one distributor within the United States.
(3) You must use one of the following methods to show that you will generally be able to honor warranty claims:
(i) If you have authorized service centers in all U.S. population centers with a population of 100,000 or more based on the 2000 census, you may limit warranty repairs to these service providers.
(ii) You may limit warranty repairs to authorized service centers for owners located within 100 miles of an authorized service center. For owners located more than 100 miles from an authorized service center, you must state in your warranty that you will either pay for shipping costs to and from an authorized service center, provide for a service technician to come to the owner to make the warranty repair, or pay for the repair to be made at a local nonauthorized service center. The provisions of this paragraph (f)(3)(ii) apply only for the contiguous states, excluding the states with high-altitude areas identified in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix III.
(iii) You may use the approach described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) of this section for some states and the approach described in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section for other states. However, you must have at least one authorized service center in each state unless the whole state is within 100 miles of authorized service centers in other states.
(4) If your plan for meeting the requirements of this paragraph (f) does
not include at least 100 authorized repair facilities in the United States or at least one such facility for each 5,000 engines you sell in the United States, you must also post a bond as described in § 1054.690 to ensure that you will fulfill your warranty-repair responsibilities even if you are not obligated to post a bond under that section. Note that you may post a single bond to meet the requirements of this section and § 1054.690.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34517, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.125
What maintenance instructions must I give to buyers?
Give the ultimate purchaser of each new engine written instructions for properly maintaining and using the engine, including the emission control system as described in this section. The maintenance instructions also apply to service accumulation on your emission-data engines as described in § 1054.245 and in 40 CFR part 1065.
(a)
Critical emission-related maintenance.
Critical emission-related maintenance includes any adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of critical emission-related components. This may also include additional emission-related maintenance that you determine is critical if we approve it in advance. You may schedule critical emission-related maintenance on these components if you meet the following conditions:
(1) You demonstrate that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals on in-use engines. We will accept scheduled maintenance as reasonably likely to occur if you satisfy any of the following conditions:
(i) You present data showing that any lack of maintenance that increases emissions also unacceptably degrades the engine's performance.
(ii) You present survey data showing that at least 80 percent of engines in the field get the maintenance you specify at the recommended intervals. If the survey data show that 60 to 80 percent of engines in the field get the maintenance you specify at the recommended intervals, you may ask us to consider additional factors such as the effect on performance and emissions. For example, we may allow you to schedule fuel-injector replacement as critical emission-related maintenance if you have survey data showing this is done at the recommended interval for 65 percent of engines and you demonstrate that performance degradation is roughly proportional to the degradation in emission control for engines that do not have their fuel injectors replaced.
(iii) You provide the maintenance free of charge and clearly say so in your maintenance instructions.
(iv) You otherwise show us that the maintenance is reasonably likely to be done at the recommended intervals.
(2) You may schedule cleaning or changing air filters or changing spark plugs at the least frequent interval described in the owners manual. See § 1054.245 for testing requirements related to these maintenance steps.
(3) You may not schedule critical emission-related maintenance within the useful life period for aftertreatment devices, pulse-air valves, fuel injectors, oxygen sensors, electronic control units, superchargers, or turbochargers, except as specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.
(4) You may ask us to approve a maintenance interval shorter than that specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. In your request you must describe the proposed maintenance step, recommend the maximum feasible interval for this maintenance, include your rationale with supporting evidence to support the need for the maintenance at the recommended interval, and demonstrate that the maintenance will be done at the recommended interval on in-use engines. In considering your request, we will evaluate the information you provide and any other available information to establish alternate specifications for maintenance intervals, if appropriate.
(b)
Recommended additional maintenance.
You may recommend any additional amount of maintenance on the components listed in paragraph (a) of this section, as long as you state clearly that these maintenance steps are not necessary to keep the emission-related warranty valid. If operators do the maintenance specified in paragraph
(a) of this section, but not the recommended additional maintenance, this does not allow you to disqualify those engines from in-use testing or deny a warranty claim. Do not take these maintenance steps during service accumulation on your emission-data engines.
(c)
Special maintenance.
You may specify more frequent maintenance to address problems related to special situations, such as atypical engine operation. You must clearly state that this additional maintenance is associated with the special situation you are addressing. You may also address maintenance of low-use engines (such as recreational or stand-by engines) by specifying the maintenance interval in terms of calendar months or years in addition to your specifications in terms of engine operating hours. All special maintenance instructions must be consistent with good engineering judgment. We may disapprove your maintenance instructions if we determine that you have specified special maintenance steps to address engine operation that is not atypical, or that the maintenance is unlikely to occur in use. For example, this paragraph (c) does not allow you to design engines that require special maintenance for a certain type of expected operation. If we determine that certain maintenance items do not qualify as special maintenance under this paragraph (c), you may identify this as recommended additional maintenance under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Noncritical emission-related maintenance.
Subject to the provisions of this paragraph (d), you may schedule any amount of emission-related inspection or maintenance that is not covered by paragraph (a) of this section (i.e., maintenance that is neither explicitly identified as critical emission-related maintenance, nor that we approve as critical emission-related maintenance). Noncritical emission-related maintenance generally includes re-seating valves, removing combustion chamber deposits, or any other emission-related maintenance on the components we specify in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix I that is not covered in paragraph (a) of this section. You must state in the owners manual that these steps are not necessary to keep the emission-related warranty valid. If operators fail to do this maintenance, this does not allow you to disqualify those engines from in-use testing or deny a warranty claim. Do not take these inspection or maintenance steps during service accumulation on your emission-data engines.
(e)
Maintenance that is not emission-related.
For maintenance unrelated to emission controls, you may schedule any amount of inspection or maintenance. You may also take these inspection or maintenance steps during service accumulation on your emission-data engines, as long as they are reasonable and technologically necessary. This might include adding engine oil, changing fuel or oil filters, servicing engine-cooling systems, and adjusting idle speed, governor, engine bolt torque, valve lash, or injector lash. You may not perform this nonemission-related maintenance on emission-data engines more often than the least frequent intervals that you recommend to the ultimate purchaser.
(f)
Source of parts and repairs.
State clearly on the first page of your written maintenance instructions that a repair shop or person of the owner's choosing may maintain, replace, or repair emission control devices and systems. Your instructions may not require components or service identified by brand, trade, or corporate name. Also, do not directly or indirectly condition your warranty on a requirement that the engine be serviced by your franchised dealers or any other service establishments with which you have a commercial relationship. You may disregard the requirements in this paragraph (f) if you do one of two things:
(1) Provide a component or service without charge under the purchase agreement.
(2) Get us to waive this prohibition in the public's interest by convincing us the engine will work properly only with the identified component or service.
(g)
Payment for scheduled maintenance.
Owners are responsible for properly maintaining their engines. This generally includes paying for scheduled maintenance. However, manufacturers must pay for scheduled maintenance
during the useful life if it meets all the following criteria:
(1) Each affected component was not in general use on similar engines before 1997.
(2) The primary function of each affected component is to reduce emissions.
(3) Failure to perform the maintenance would not cause clear problems that would significantly degrade the engine's performance.
(h)
Owners manual.
Explain the owner's responsibility for proper maintenance in the owners manual.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23024, Apr. 30, 2010; 86 FR 34517, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.130
What installation instructions must I give to equipment manufacturers?
(a) If you sell an engine for someone else to install in a piece of equipment, give the engine installer instructions for installing it consistent with the requirements of this part. Include all information necessary to ensure that an engine will be installed in its certified configuration.
(b) Make sure the instructions have the following information:
(1) Include the heading: “Emission-related installation instructions”.
(2) State: “Failing to follow these instructions when installing a certified engine in a piece of equipment violates federal law (40 CFR 1068.105(b)), subject to fines or other penalties as described in the Clean Air Act.”
(3) Describe the instructions needed to properly install the exhaust system and any other components. Include instructions consistent with the requirements of § 1054.655 related to altitude kits.
(4) Describe the steps needed to control evaporative emissions in accordance with certificates of conformity that you hold. Include instructions for connecting fuel lines as needed to prevent running loss emissions, if applicable. Such instructions must include sufficient detail to ensure that running loss control will not cause the engine to exceed exhaust emission standards. For example, you may specify a maximum vapor flow rate under normal operating conditions. Also include notification that the installer must meet the requirements of § 1054.112 and 40 CFR part 1060.
(5) Describe how your certification is limited for any type of application. For example, if you certify engines only for rated-speed applications, tell equipment manufacturers that the engine must not be installed in equipment involving intermediate-speed operation. Also, if your wintertime engines are not certified to the otherwise applicable HC+NO
X
standards in this subpart, tell equipment manufacturers that the engines must be installed in equipment that is used only in wintertime.
(6) Describe any other instructions to make sure the installed engine will operate according to design specifications in your application for certification. For example, this may include specified limits for catalyst systems, such as exhaust backpressure, catalyst location, and temperature profiles during engine operation.
(7) State: “If you install the engine in a way that makes the engine's emission control information label hard to read during normal engine maintenance, you must place a duplicate label on the equipment, as described in 40 CFR 1068.105.”
(c) You do not need installation instructions for engines you install in your own equipment.
(d) Provide instructions in writing or in an equivalent format. For example, you may post instructions on a publicly available Web site for downloading or printing. If you do not provide the instructions in writing, explain in your application for certification how you will ensure that each installer is informed of the installation requirements.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34517, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.135
How must I label and identify the engines I produce?
The provisions of this section apply to engine manufacturers.
(a) Assign each engine a unique identification number and permanently affix, engrave, or stamp it on the engine in a legible way.
(b) At the time of manufacture, affix a permanent and legible label identifying each engine. The label must be—
(1) Attached in one piece so it is not removable without being destroyed or defaced.
(2) Secured to a part of the engine needed for normal operation and not normally requiring replacement.
(3) Durable and readable for the engine's entire life.
(4) Written in English.
(c) The label must conform to the following specifications without exception:
(1) Include the heading “EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION”.
(2) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may identify another company and use its trademark instead of yours if you comply with the branding provisions of 40 CFR 1068.45.
(3) Include EPA's standardized designation for the emission family (and subfamily, where applicable).
(4) State the following based on the useful life requirements in § 1054.107: “EMISSION COMPLIANCE PERIOD = [identify applicable useful life period] HOURS”. In addition to specifying the hours, you may optionally add the descriptive terms specified in § 1054.107(a) to characterize the useful life. You may use the term Heavy Commercial for nonhandheld engines if you establish a longer useful life under § 1054.107(a)(2).
(5) State the engine's displacement (in cubic centimeters); however, you may omit this from the label if all the engines in the emission family have the same per-cylinder displacement and total displacement.
(6) State the date of manufacture [DAY (optional), MONTH, and YEAR]; however, you may omit this from the label if you stamp, engrave, or otherwise permanently identify it elsewhere on the engine, in which case you must also describe in your application for certification where you will identify the date on the engine.
(7) Identify the emission control system. Use terms and abbreviations as described in 40 CFR 1068.45. You may omit this information from the label if there is not enough room for it and you put it in the owners manual instead.
(8) Include one of the following statements:
(i) If you are an integrated equipment manufacturer certifying engines with respect to exhaust emissions and meeting all applicable evaporative emission requirements under 40 CFR part 1060, state—
“THIS ENGINE MEETS U.S. EPA EXH/EVP REGS FOR [MODEL YEAR].”
(ii) In all other cases, state—
“THIS ENGINE MEETS U.S. EPA EXH REGS FOR [MODEL YEAR].”
(d) The following information may be included on the label or in the owners manual:
(1) List specifications and adjustments for engine tuneups.
(2) Identify the altitude at which an altitude kit should be installed if you specify an altitude kit under § 1054.115(c).
(3) Identify the fuel type and any requirements for fuel and lubricants.
(4) If your nonhandheld engines are certified for use only at rated speed or only at intermediate speed, add the statement: “CERTIFIED FOR [rated-speed or intermediate-speed] APPLICATIONS ONLY” or “CERTIFIED FOR [identify nominal engine speed or range of speeds for testing] OPERATION ONLY”.
(e) You may add information to the emission control information label as follows:
(1) You may identify other emission standards that the engine meets or does not meet (such as California standards), as long as this does not cause you to omit any of the information described in paragraph (c) of this section. You may include this information by adding it to the statement we specify or by including a separate statement.
(2) You may add other information to ensure that the engine will be properly maintained and used.
(3) You may add appropriate features to prevent counterfeit labels. For example, you may include the engine's unique identification number on the label.
(f) Except for the labeling requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, you may ask us to approve modified labeling requirements in this part 1054 if you show that it is necessary or appropriate. We will approve your request if your alternate label is
consistent with the requirements of this part.
(g) If others install your engine in their equipment in a way that obscures the engine label such that the label cannot be read during normal maintenance, we require them to add a duplicate label on the equipment (see 40 CFR 1068.105). If equipment manufacturers request it, send them labels that include all the information from the original label and that are clearly identified as duplicate labels. You may omit the date of manufacture from the duplicate label. Keep a written record of each request for five years after it is no longer needed for ongoing production.
(h) Integrated equipment manufacturers certifying their engines and equipment with respect to both exhaust and evaporative emission standards may meet labeling requirements with a single label that has all the required information specified in this section and in 40 CFR 1060.135.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 9114, Feb. 19, 2015; 86 FR 34518, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.140
What is my engine's maximum engine power and displacement?
This section describes how to quantify your engine's maximum engine power and displacement for the purposes of this part.
(a) An engine configuration's maximum engine power is the maximum brake power point on the nominal power curve for the engine configuration, as defined in this section. Round the power value to the nearest 0.1 kilowatts for nonhandheld engines and to the nearest 0.01 kilowatts for handheld engines. The nominal power curve of an engine configuration is the relationship between maximum available engine brake power and engine speed for an engine, using the mapping procedures of 40 CFR part 1065, based on the manufacturer's design and production specifications for the engine. For handheld engines, we may allow manufacturers to base the nominal power curve on other mapping procedures, consistent with good engineering judgment. This information may also be expressed by a torque curve that relates maximum available engine torque with engine speed. Note that maximum engine power is based on engines and installed engine governors; equipment designs that further limit engine operation do not change maximum engine power.
(b) An engine configuration's displacement is the intended swept volume of all the engine's cylinders. The swept volume of the engine is the product of the internal cross-section area of the cylinders, the stroke length, and the number of cylinders. Calculate the engine's intended swept volume from the design specifications for the cylinders using enough significant figures to allow determination of the displacement to the nearest 0.1 cc. Determine the final value by rounding to the nearest cubic centimeter. For example, for a one-cylinder engine with circular cylinders having an internal diameter of 6.00 cm and a 6.25 cm stroke length, the rounded displacement would be: (1) × (6.00/2)
2
× (π) × (6.25) = 177 cc.
(c) The nominal power curve and intended swept volume must be within the range of the actual power curves and swept volumes of production engines considering normal production variability. If after production begins it is determined that either your nominal power curve or your intended swept volume does not represent production engines, we may require you to amend your application for certification under § 1054.225.
§ 1054.145
Are there interim provisions that apply only for a limited time?
The interim provisions in this section apply instead of other provisions in this part. This section describes how and when these interim provisions apply.
(a)-(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Special provisions for handheld engines.
Handheld engines subject to Phase 3 emission standards must meet the standards at or above barometric pressures of 96.0 kPa in the standard configuration and are not required to meet emission standards at lower barometric pressures. This is intended to allow testing under most weather conditions at all altitudes up to 1,100 feet above sea level. In your application for certification, identify the altitude above which you rely on an altitude kit
and describe your plan for making information and parts available such that you would reasonably expect that altitude kits would be widely used at all such altitudes.
(d)
Alignment of model years for exhaust and evaporative standards.
Evaporative emission standards generally apply based on the model year of the equipment, which is determined by the equipment's date of final assembly. However, in the first year of new emission standards, equipment manufacturers may apply evaporative emission standards based on the model year of the engine as shown on the engine's emission control information label. For example, for the fuel line permeation standards starting in 2012, equipment manufacturers may order a batch of 2011 model year engines for installation in 2012 model year equipment, subject to the anti-stockpiling provisions of 40 CFR 1068.105(a). The equipment with the 2011 model year engines would not need to meet fuel line permeation standards, as long as the equipment is fully assembled by December 31, 2012.
(e) [Reserved]
(f)
Early banking for evaporative emission standards—handheld equipment manufacturers.
You may earn emission credits for handheld equipment you produce before the evaporative emission standards of § 1054.110 apply. To do this, your equipment must use fuel tanks with a family emission limit below 1.5 g/m2/day (or 2.5 g/m2/day for testing at 40 °C). Calculate your credits as described in § 1054.706 based on the difference between the family emission limit and 1.5 g/m2/day (or 2.5 g/m2/day for testing at 40 °C).
(g) through (i) [Reserved]
(j)
Continued use of 40 CFR part 90 test data.
You may continue to use data based on the test procedures that apply for engines built before the requirements of this part start to apply if we allow you to use carryover emission data under § 1054.235(d) for your emission family. You may also use those test procedures for measuring exhaust emissions for production-line testing with any engine family whose certification is based on testing with those procedures. For any EPA testing, we will rely on the procedures described in subpart F of this part, even if you used carryover data based on older test procedures as allowed under this paragraph (j).
(k)-(m) [Reserved]
(n)
California test fuel.
You may perform testing with a fuel meeting the requirements for certifying the engine in California instead of the fuel specified in § 1054.501(b)(2), as follows:
(1) You may certify individual engine families using data from testing conducted with California Phase 2 test fuel through model year 2019. Any EPA testing with such an engine family may use either California Phase 2 test fuel or the test fuel specified in § 1054.501.
(2) Starting in model year 2013, you may certify individual engine families using data from testing conducted with California Phase 3 test fuel. Any EPA testing with such an engine family may use either California Phase 3 test fuel or the test fuel specified in § 1054.501, unless you certify to the more stringent CO standards specified in this paragraph (n)(2). If you meet these alternate CO standards, we will also use California Phase 3 test fuel for any testing we perform with engines from that engine family. The following alternate CO standards apply instead of the CO standards specified in § 1054.103 or § 1054.105:
Table 1 to § 1054.145—Alternate CO Standards for Testing With California Phase 3 Test Fuel
[g/kW-hr]
Engine type
Alternate
CO standard
Class I
549
Class II
549
Class III
536
Class IV
536
Class V
536
Marine generators
4.5
[86 FR 34518, June 29, 2021]

# Subpart C—Certifying Emission Families
§ 1054.201
What are the general requirements for obtaining a certificate of conformity?
Engine manufacturers must certify their engines with respect to the exhaust emission standards in this part.
Manufacturers of engines, equipment, or fuel-system components may need to certify their products with respect to evaporative emission standards as described in 40 CFR 1060.1 and 1060.601. The following general requirements apply for obtaining a certificate of conformity:
(a) You must send us a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each engine family. A certificate of conformity is valid starting with the indicated effective date but it is not valid for any production after December 31 of the model year for which it is issued. No certificate will be issued after December 31 of the model year. If you certify with respect to both exhaust and evaporative emissions, you must submit separate applications.
(b) The application must contain all the information required by this part and must not include false or incomplete statements or information (see § 1054.255).
(c) We may ask you to include less information than we specify in this subpart as long as you maintain all the information required by § 1054.250.
(d) You must use good engineering judgment for all decisions related to your application (see 40 CFR 1068.5).
(e) An authorized representative of your company must approve and sign the application.
(f) See § 1054.255 for provisions describing how we will process your application.
(g) We may require you to deliver your test engines to a facility we designate for our testing (see § 1054.235(c)).
(h) For engines that become new after being placed into service, such as engines converted to run on a different fuel, we may specify alternate certification provisions consistent with the intent of this part.
See
§ 1054.645 and the definition of “new nonroad engine” in § 1054.801.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23025, Apr. 30, 2010]
§ 1054.205
What must I include in my application?
This section specifies the information that must be in your application, unless we ask you to include less information under § 1054.201(c). We may require you to provide additional information to evaluate your application. The provisions of this section apply to integrated equipment manufacturers and engine manufacturers selling loose engines. Nonintegrated equipment manufacturers must follow the requirements of 40 CFR part 1060.
(a) Describe the emission family's specifications and other basic parameters of the engine's design and emission controls. List the fuel type on which your engines are designed to operate (for example, all-season gasoline). List each distinguishable engine configuration in the emission family. For each engine configuration in which the maximum modal power of the emission-data engine is at or above 25 kW (or power at or above 15 kW if displacement is above 1000 cc), list the maximum engine power and the range of values for maximum engine power resulting from production tolerances, as described in § 1054.140.
(b) Explain how the emission control systems operate. Describe the evaporative emission controls and show how your design will prevent running loss emissions, if applicable. Also describe in detail all system components for controlling exhaust emissions, including all auxiliary emission control devices (AECDs) and all fuel-system components you will install on any production or test engine. Identify the part number of each component you describe. For this paragraph (b), treat as separate AECDs any devices that modulate or activate differently from each other. Include sufficient detail to allow us to evaluate whether the AECDs are consistent with the defeat device prohibition of § 1054.115. For example, if your engines will routinely experience in-use operation that differs from the specified duty cycle for certification, describe how the fuel-metering system responds to varying speeds and loads not represented by the duty cycle. If you test an emission-data engine by disabling the governor for full-load operation such that the engine operates at an air-fuel ratio significantly different than under full-load operation with an installed governor, explain why these differences are necessary or appropriate. For conventional carbureted engines without electronic fuel
controls, it is sufficient to state that there is no significant difference in air-fuel ratios.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Describe the engines, equipment, and fuel system components you selected for testing and the reasons for selecting them.
(e) Describe the test equipment and procedures that you used, including any special or alternate test procedures you used. For handheld engines, describe how you selected the value for rated speed.
(f) Describe how you operated the emission-data engine before testing, including the duty cycle and the number of engine operating hours used to stabilize emission levels. Explain why you selected the method of service accumulation. Describe any scheduled maintenance you did.
(g) List the specifications of the test fuel to show that it falls within the required ranges we specify in 40 CFR part 1065.
(h) Identify the emission family's useful life. Describe the basis for selecting useful life values with respect to exhaust emissions (see § 1054.107).
(i) Include the maintenance and warranty instructions you will give to the ultimate purchaser of each new engine (see §§ 1054.120 and 1054.125). Describe your basis for meeting the warranty-assurance provisions in § 1054.120(f). Describe your recall repair network if it is different than your warranty repair network. State that you will post a bond as specified in § 1054.120(f) and 1054.690 or describe why those requirements do not apply.
(j) Include the emission-related installation instructions you will provide if someone else installs your engines in nonroad equipment (see § 1054.130).
(k) Describe your emission control information label (see § 1054.135).
(l) Identify the emission standards or FELs for the emission family.
(m) Identify the emission family's deterioration factors and describe how you developed them (see § 1054.245). Present any emission test data you used for this.
(n) State that you operated your emission-data engines as described in the application (including the test procedures, test parameters, and test fuels) to show you meet the requirements of this part.
(o) Present emission data to show that you meet exhaust emission standards, as follows:
(1) Present emission data for hydrocarbon (such as THC, THCE, or NMHC, as applicable), NO
X
, and CO on an emission-data engine to show your engines meet the applicable exhaust emission standards as specified in § 1054.101. Show emission figures before and after applying deterioration factors for each engine. Include test data from each applicable duty cycle as specified in § 1054.505(b). If we specify more than one grade of any fuel type (for example, low-temperature and all-season gasoline), you need to submit test data only for one grade, unless the regulations of this part specify otherwise for your engine.
(2) Note that §§ 1054.235 and 1054.245 allow you to submit an application in certain cases without new emission data.
(p) Report test results as follows:
(1) Report all valid test results involving measurement of pollutants for which emission standards apply. Also indicate whether there are test results from invalid tests or from any other tests of the emission-data engine, whether or not they were conducted according to the test procedures of subpart F of this part. We may require you to report these additional test results. We may ask you to send other information to confirm that your tests were valid under the requirements of this part and 40 CFR parts 1060 and 1065.
(2) Report measured CO
2
, N
2
O, and CH
4
as described in § 1054.235. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit reporting N
2
O and CH
4
.
(q) Describe all adjustable operating parameters (see § 1054.115(b)), including production tolerances. For any operating parameters that do not qualify as adjustable parameters, include a description supporting your conclusion (see 40 CFR 1068.50(c)). Include the following in your description of each adjustable parameter:
(1) For practically adjustable parameters, include the nominal or recommended setting, the intended practically adjustable range, and the limits or stops used to establish adjustable
ranges. State that the limits, stops, or other means of inhibiting adjustment are effective in preventing adjustment of parameters on in-use engines to settings outside your intended practically adjustable ranges and provide information to support this statement.
(2) For programmable operating parameters, state that you have restricted access to electronic controls to prevent parameter adjustments on in-use engines that would allow operation outside the practically adjustable range. Describe how your engines are designed to prevent unauthorized adjustments.
(r) Describe how your nonhandheld engines comply with emission standards at varying atmospheric pressures. Include a description of altitude kits you design to comply with the requirements of § 1054.115(c). Identify the part number of each component you describe. Identify the altitude range for which you expect proper engine performance and emission control with and without the altitude kit. State that your engines will comply with applicable emission standards throughout the useful life with the altitude kit installed according to your instructions. Describe any relevant testing, engineering analysis, or other information in sufficient detail to support your statement. In addition, describe your plan for making information and parts available such that you would reasonably expect that altitude kits would be widely used in the high-altitude counties specified in 40 CFR part 1068, Appendix III. For example, engine owners should have ready access to information describing when an altitude kit is needed and how to obtain this service. Similarly, parts and service information should be available to qualified service facilities in addition to authorized service centers if that is needed for owners to have such altitude kits installed locally.
(s) If your engines are subject to handheld emission standards on the basis of meeting weight limitations described in the definition of “handheld” in § 1054.801, describe your analysis showing that you meet the applicable weight-related restrictions.
(t) State whether your certification is limited for certain engines. If this is the case, describe how you will prevent use of these engines in applications for which they are not certified. This applies for engines such as the following:
(1) Wintertime engines not certified to the specified HC + NO
X
standard.
(2) Two-stroke snowthrower engines using the provisions of § 1054.101(d).
(u) Unconditionally certify that all the engines in the emission family comply with the requirements of this part, other referenced parts of the CFR, and the Clean Air Act.
(v) Provide the following information about your plans for producing and selling engines:
(1) Identify the estimated initial and final dates for producing engines from the engine family for the model year.
(2) Identify the estimated date for initially introducing certified engines into U.S. commerce under this certificate.
(3) Include good-faith estimates of U.S.-directed production volumes. Include a justification for the estimated production volumes if they are substantially different than actual production volumes in earlier years for similar models. Also indicate whether you expect the engine family to contain only nonroad engines, only stationary engines, or both.
(w) State that you will post a bond as specified in § 1054.690 or describe why those requirements do not apply.
(x) Include the information required by other subparts of this part. For example, include the information required by § 1054.725 if you participate in the ABT program and include the information required by § 1054.690 if you need to post a bond under that section.
(y) Include other applicable information, such as information specified in this part or 40 CFR part 1068 related to requests for exemptions.
(z) Name an agent for service located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.
(aa) For imported engines or equipment, identify the following:
(1) The port(s) at which you have imported your engines (or equipment containing your engines) over the previous 12 months.
(2) The names and addresses of the agents you have authorized to import your engines or equipment.
(3) The location of a test facility in the United States where you can test your engines if we select them for testing under a selective enforcement audit, as specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart E.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 56511, Oct. 30, 2009; 75 FR 23025, Apr. 30, 2010; 86 FR 34518, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4667, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1054.210
May I get preliminary approval before I complete my application?
If you send us information before you finish the application, we will review it and make any appropriate determinations, especially for questions related to emission family definitions, auxiliary emission control devices, deterioration factors, useful life, testing for service accumulation, maintenance, and delegated final assembly. Decisions made under this section are considered to be preliminary approval, subject to final review and approval. We will generally not reverse a decision where we have given you preliminary approval, unless we find new information supporting a different decision. If you request preliminary approval related to the upcoming model year or the model year after that, we will make the appropriate determinations as soon as practicable. We will generally not provide preliminary approval related to a future model year more than two years ahead of time.
§ 1054.220
How do I amend my maintenance instructions?
You may amend your emission-related maintenance instructions after you submit your application for certification as long as the amended instructions remain consistent with the provisions of § 1054.125. You must send the Designated Compliance Officer a written request to amend your application for certification for an engine family if you want to change the emission-related maintenance instructions in a way that could affect emissions. In your request, describe the proposed changes to the maintenance instructions. If operators follow the original maintenance instructions rather than the newly specified maintenance, this does not allow you to disqualify those engines from in-use testing or deny a warranty claim.
(a) If you are decreasing or eliminating any specified maintenance, you may distribute the new maintenance instructions to your customers 30 days after we receive your request, unless we disapprove your request. This would generally include replacing one maintenance step with another. We may approve a shorter time or waive this requirement.
(b) If your requested change would not decrease the specified maintenance, you may distribute the new maintenance instructions anytime after you send your request. For example, this paragraph (b) would cover adding instructions to increase the frequency of filter changes for engines in severe-duty applications.
(c) You need not request approval if you are making only minor corrections (such as correcting typographical mistakes), clarifying your maintenance instructions, or changing instructions for maintenance unrelated to emission control. We may ask you to send us copies of maintenance instructions revised under this paragraph (c).
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23025, Apr. 30, 2010; 86 FR 34519, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.225
How do I amend my application for certification?
Before we issue you a certificate of conformity, you may amend your application to include new or modified engine or fuel-system configurations, subject to the provisions of this section. After we have issued your certificate of conformity, you may send us an amended application requesting that we include new or modified configurations within the scope of the certificate, subject to the provisions of this section. You must amend your application if any changes occur with respect to any information included in your application.
(a) You must amend your application before you take any of the following actions:
(1) Add an engine or fuel-system configuration to an emission family. In this case, the configuration added must be consistent with other configurations in the emission family with respect to the criteria listed in § 1054.230.
(2) Change a configuration already included in an emission family in a way that may affect emissions, or change any of the components you described in your application for certification. This includes production and design changes that may affect emissions any time during the engine's lifetime.
(3) Modify an FEL for an emission family with respect to exhaust emissions as described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(b) To amend your application for certification, send the following relevant information to the Designated Compliance Officer.
(1) Describe in detail the addition or change in the model or configuration you intend to make.
(2) Include engineering evaluations or data showing that the amended emission family complies with all applicable requirements in this part. You may do this by showing that the original emission-data engine or emission-data equipment is still appropriate for showing that the amended family complies with all applicable requirements in this part.
(3) If the original emission-data engine for the engine family is not appropriate to show compliance for the new or modified engine configuration, include new test data showing that the new or modified engine configuration meets the requirements of this part.
(4) Include any other information needed to make your application correct and complete.
(c) We may ask for more test data or engineering evaluations. You must give us these within 30 days after we request them.
(d) For emission families already covered by a certificate of conformity, we will determine whether the existing certificate of conformity covers your new or modified configuration. You may ask for a hearing if we deny your request (see § 1054.820).
(e) For emission families already covered by a certificate of conformity, you may start producing the new or modified configuration anytime after you send us your amended application and before we make a decision under paragraph (d) of this section. However, if we determine that the affected configurations do not meet applicable requirements, we will notify you to cease production of the configurations and may require you to recall the engine or equipment at no expense to the owner. Choosing to produce engines under this paragraph (e) is deemed to be consent to recall all engines or equipment that we determine do not meet applicable emission standards or other requirements and to remedy the nonconformity at no expense to the owner. If you do not provide information required under paragraph (c) of this section within 30 days after we request it, you must stop producing the new or modified engine or equipment.
(f) You may ask us to approve a change to your FEL with respect to exhaust emissions in certain cases after the start of production. The changed FEL may not apply to engines you have already introduced into U.S. commerce, except as described in this paragraph (f). If we approve a changed FEL after the start of production, you must identify the month and year for applying the new FEL. You may ask us to approve a change to your FEL in the following cases:
(1) You may ask to raise your FEL for your emission family at any time. In your request, you must show that you will still be able to meet the emission standards as specified in subparts B and H of this part. If you amend your application by submitting new test data to include a newly added or modified engine, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, use the appropriate FELs with corresponding production volumes to calculate emission credits for the model year, as described in subpart H of this part. In all other circumstances, you must use the higher FEL for the entire family to calculate emission credits under subpart H of this part.
(2) You may ask to lower the FEL for your emission family only if you have test data from production engines showing that emissions are below the proposed lower FEL. The lower FEL does not apply to engines you produce before the new FEL starts to apply, as specified in this paragraph (f). Use the appropriate FELs with corresponding production volumes to calculate emission credits for the model year, as described in subpart H of this part.
(g) You may produce engines as described in your amended application for certification and consider those engines to be in a certified configuration if we approve a new or modified engine configuration during the model year under paragraph (d) of this section. Similarly, you may modify in-use engines as described in your amended application for certification and consider those engines to be in a certified configuration if we approve a new or modified engine configuration at any time under paragraph (d) of this section. Modifying a new or in-use engine to be in a certified configuration does not violate the tampering prohibition of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1), as long as this does not involve changing to a certified configuration with a higher family emission limit.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34519, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.230
How do I select emission families?
(a) For purposes of certification, divide your product line into families of engines that are expected to have similar emission characteristics throughout their useful life as described in this section. Your emission family is limited to a single model year. For evaporative emissions, group engines into emission families as described in 40 CFR 1060.230.
(b) Group engines into the same emission family for exhaust emissions if they are the same in all the following aspects:
(1) The combustion cycle and fuel. See paragraph (g) of this section for special provisions that apply for dual-fuel engines.
(2) The cooling system (liquid-cooled vs. air-cooled).
(3) Valve configuration (for example, side-valve vs. overhead valve).
(4) Method of air aspiration (for example, turbocharged vs. naturally aspirated).
(5) The number, location, volume, and composition of catalytic converters.
(6) The number and arrangement of cylinders (such as in-line or vee configuration) and approximate total displacement.
(7) Engine class, as defined in § 1054.801.
(8) Method of control for engine operation, other than governing. For example, multi-cylinder engines with port fuel injection may not be grouped into an emission family with engines that have a single throttle-body injector or carburetor.
(9) The numerical level of the applicable emission standards. For example, an emission family may not include engines certified to different family emission limits, though you may change family emission limits without recertifying as specified in § 1054.225.
(10) Useful life.
(c) You may subdivide a group that is identical under paragraph (b) of this section into different emission families if you show the expected emission characteristics are different during the useful life.
(d) You may group engines that are not identical with respect to the things listed in paragraph (b) of this section into the same emission family, as follows:
(1) In unusual circumstances, you may group such engines into the same emission family if you show that their emission characteristics during the useful life will be similar.
(2) If you are a small-volume engine manufacturer, you may group any nonhandheld engines with the same useful life that are subject to the same emission standards into a single emission family.
(3) The provisions of this paragraph (d) do not exempt any engines from meeting all the applicable standards and requirements in subpart B of this part.
(e) Select test engines from the emission family as described in 40 CFR 1065.401.
(f) You may combine engines from different classes into a single emission family under paragraph (d)(1) of this section if you certify the emission family to the more stringent set of standards from the two classes in that model year.
(g) You may certify dual-fuel or flexible-fuel engines in a single engine family. You may include dedicated-fuel versions of this same engine model in the same engine family, as long as they are identical to the engine configuration with respect to that fuel type for the dual-fuel or flexible-fuel version of the engine. For example, if you produce an engine that can alternately run on gasoline and natural gas, you can include the gasoline-only and natural gas-only versions of the engine in the same engine family as the dual-fuel engine if engine operation on each fuel type is identical with or without installation of components for operating on the other fuel.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23025, Apr. 30, 2010; 88 FR 4667, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1054.235
What testing requirements apply for certification?
This section describes the exhaust emission testing you must perform to show compliance with the emission standards in §§ 1054.103 and 1054.105. See §§ 1054.240 and 1054.245 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, regarding service accumulation before emission testing.
(a) Select an emission-data engine from each engine family for testing as described in 40 CFR 1065.401. Select a configuration and set adjustable parameters in a way that is most likely to exceed the HC+NO
X
standard in subpart B of this part, using good engineering judgment. Configurations must be tested as they will be produced, including installed governors, if applicable.
(b) Test your emission-data engines using the procedures and equipment specified in subpart F of this part. In the case of dual-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with each type of fuel for which you intend to certify the engine. In the case of flexible-fuel engines, measure emissions when operating with the fuel mixture that is most likely to cause the engine to exceed the applicable HC+NO
X
emission standard, though you may ask us to instead perform tests with both fuels separately if you can show that intermediate mixtures are not likely to occur in use.
(c) We may perform confirmatory testing by measuring emissions from any of your emission-data engines or other engines from the emission family, as follows:
(1) We may decide to do the testing at your plant or any other facility. If we do this, you must deliver the engine to a test facility we designate. The engine you provide must include appropriate manifolds, aftertreatment devices, electronic control units, and other emission-related components not normally attached directly to the engine block. If we do the testing at your plant, you must schedule it as soon as possible and make available the instruments, personnel, and equipment we need.
(2) If we measure emissions on one of your engines, the results of that testing become the official emission results for the engine.
(3) We may set the adjustable parameters of your engine to any point within the physically adjustable ranges (see § 1054.115(b)).
(4) Before we test one of your engines, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for anything we do not consider an adjustable parameter. For example, we may calibrate it within normal production tolerances for a parameter that is subject to production variability because it is adjustable during production, but is not considered an adjustable parameter (as defined in § 1054.801) because it is permanently sealed.
(d) You may ask to use carryover emission data from a previous model year instead of doing new tests, but only if all the following are true:
(1) The emission family from the previous model year differs from the current emission family only with respect to model year, items identified in § 1054.225(a), or other characteristics unrelated to emissions. We may waive this paragraph (d)(1) for differences we determine not to be relevant.
(2) The emission-data engine from the previous model year remains the
appropriate emission-data engine under paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) The data show that the emission-data engine would meet all the requirements of this part that apply to the emission family covered by the application for certification.
(e) We may require you to test another engine of the same or different configuration in addition to the engine(s) tested under paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) If you use an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 1065.10 and later testing shows that such testing does not produce results that are equivalent to the procedures specified in subpart F of this part, we may reject data you generated using the alternate procedure.
(g) Measure CO
2
and CH
4
with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2011 and 2012 model years, respectively. Also measure N
2
O with each low-hour certification test using the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 starting in the 2013 model year for any engine family that depends on NOx aftertreatment to meet emission standards. Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit measurement of N
2
O and CH
4
. Use the same units and modal calculations as for your other results to report a single weighted value for each constituent. Round the final values as follows:
(1) Round CO
2
to the nearest 1 g/kW-hr.
(2) Round N
2
O to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.
(3) Round CH
4
to the nearest 0.001 g/kW-hr.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 56511, Oct. 30, 2009; 86 FR 34519, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.240
How do I demonstrate that my emission family complies with exhaust emission standards?
(a) For purposes of certification, your emission family is considered in compliance with the emission standards in § 1054.101(a) if all emission-data engines representing that family have test results showing official emission results and deteriorated emission levels at or below these standards. This paragraph (a) also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors. Note that your FELs are considered to be the applicable emission standards with which you must comply if you participate in the ABT program in subpart H of this part.
(b) Your engine family is deemed not to comply if any emission-data engine representing that family has test results showing an official emission result or a deteriorated emission level for any pollutant that is above an applicable emission standard in subpart B of this part. This paragraph (b) also applies for all test points for emission-data engines within the family used to establish deterioration factors.
(c) Determine a deterioration factor to compare emission levels from the emission-data engine with the applicable emission standards in subpart B of this part. Section 1054.245 specifies how to test engines to develop deterioration factors that represent the expected deterioration in emissions over your engines' full useful life. Calculate a multiplicative deterioration factor as described in § 1054.245(b). If the deterioration factor is less than one, use one. Specify the deterioration factor to one more significant figure than the emission standard. In the case of dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines, apply deterioration factors separately for each fuel type. You may use assigned deterioration factors that we establish for up to 10,000 nonhandheld engines from small-volume emission families in each model year, except that small-volume engine manufacturers may use assigned deterioration factors for any or all of their engine families.
(d) Determine the official emission result for each pollutant to at least one more decimal place than the applicable standard in subpart B of this part. Apply the deterioration factor to the official emission result, as described in § 1054.245(b), then round the adjusted figure to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard. Compare the rounded emission levels to the emission standard for each emission-data engine. In the case of HC+NO
X
standards, add the official emission results and apply the deterioration factor to the sum of the pollutants before rounding. However, if your deterioration factors are based on emission
measurements that do not cover the engine's full useful life, apply deterioration factors to each pollutant and then add the results before rounding.
(e) The provisions of this paragraph (e) apply only for engine families with a useful life at or below 300 hours. To apply the deterioration factor to engines other than the original emission-data engine, they must be operated for the same number of hours before starting emission measurements that you used for the original emission-data engine, within one hour. For example, if the original emission-data engine operated for 8 hours before the low-hour emission test, operate the other test engines for 7 to 9 hours before starting emission measurements.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34520, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.245
How do I determine deterioration factors from exhaust durability testing?
This section describes how to determine deterioration factors, either with pre-existing test data or with new emission measurements.
(a) You may ask us to approve deterioration factors for an emission family based on emission measurements from similar engines if you have already given us these data for certifying other engines in the same or earlier model years. Use good engineering judgment to decide whether the two engines are similar. We will approve your request if you show us that the emission measurements from other engines reasonably represent in-use deterioration for the engine family for which you have not yet determined deterioration factors.
(b) If you are unable to determine deterioration factors for an emission family under paragraph (a) of this section, select engines, subsystems, or components for testing. Determine deterioration factors based on service accumulation and related testing. Include consideration of wear and other causes of deterioration expected under typical consumer use. Determine deterioration factors as follows:
(1) Measure emissions from the emission-data engine at a low-hour test point, at the midpoint of the useful life, and at the end of the useful life, except as specifically allowed by this paragraph (b). You may test at additional evenly spaced intermediate points. Collect emission data using measurements to at least one more decimal place than the emission standard in subpart B of this part.
(2) Operate the engine over a duty cycle that is representative of in-use operation for a period at least as long as the useful life (in hours). You may operate the engine continuously. You may also use an engine installed in nonroad equipment to accumulate service hours instead of running the engine only in the laboratory.
(3) In the case of dual-fuel or flexible-fuel engines, you may accumulate service hours on a single emission-data engine using the type or mixture of fuel expected to have the highest combustion and exhaust temperatures; you may ask us to approve a different fuel mixture for flexible-fuel engines if you demonstrate that a different criterion is more appropriate. For dual-fuel engines, you must measure emissions on each fuel type at each test point, either with separate engines dedicated to a given fuel, or with different configurations of a single engine.
(4) You may perform maintenance on emission-data engines as described in § 1054.125 and 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E. If you change one or more spark plugs on an emission-data engine as allowed under § 1054.125, you must measure emissions before and after this maintenance. If you clean or change an air filter on an emission-data engine as allowed under § 1054.125, you must measure emissions before and after every second time you perform this maintenance. Use the average values from these two measurements to calculate deterioration factors. The emission-data engine must meet applicable emission standards before and after maintenance to be considered in compliance, as described in § 1054.240(a) and (b).
(5) Calculate your deterioration factor using a linear least-squares fit of your test data but treat the low-hour test point as occurring at hour zero. Your deterioration factor is the ratio of the calculated emission level at the point representing the full useful life to the calculated emission level at zero
hours, expressed to one more significant figure than the emission standard in subpart B of this part.
(6) If you test more than one engine to establish deterioration factors, average the deterioration factors from all the engines before rounding.
(7) If your durability engine fails between 80 percent and 100 percent of useful life, you may use the last emission measurement as the test point representing the full useful life, provided it occurred after at least 80 percent of the useful life.
(8) If your useful life is 1,000 hours or longer, and your durability engine fails between 50 percent and 100 percent of useful life, you may extrapolate your emission results to determine the emission level representing the full useful life, provided emissions were measured at least once after 50 percent of the useful life.
(9) Use good engineering judgment for all aspects of the effort to establish deterioration factors under this paragraph (b).
(10) You may use other testing methods to determine deterioration factors, consistent with good engineering judgment, as long as we approve those methods in advance.
(c) If you qualify for using assigned deterioration factors under § 1054.240, determine the deterioration factors as follows:
(1) For two-stroke engines without aftertreatment, use a deterioration factor of 1.1 for HC, NO
X
, and CO. For four-stroke engines without aftertreatment, use deterioration factors of 1.4 for HC, 1.0 for NO
X
, and 1.1 for CO for Class 2 engines, and use 1.5 for HC and NO
X
, and 1.1 for CO for all other engines.
(2) For Class 2 engines with aftertreatment, use a deterioration factor of 1.0 for NO
X
. For all other cases involving engines with aftertreatment, calculate separate deterioration factors for HC, NO
X
, and CO using the following equation:
ER29JN21.169
Where:
NE = engine-out emission levels (pre-catalyst) from the low-hour test result for a given pollutant, in g/kW-hr.
EDF = the deterioration factor specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the type of engine for a given pollutant.
CC = the catalyst conversion from the low-hour test, in g/kW-hr. This is the difference between the official emission result and NE.
F = 1.0 for NO
X
and 0.8 for HC and CO.
(3) Combine separate deterioration factors for HC and NO
X
from paragraph (c)(2) of this section into a combined deterioration factor for HC+NO
X
using the following equation:
ER29JN21.170
(d) Include the following information in your application for certification:
(1) If you determine your deterioration factors based on test data from a different emission family, explain why this is appropriate and include all the emission measurements on which you base the deterioration factor.
(2) If you do testing to determine deterioration factors, describe the form and extent of service accumulation, including the method you use to accumulate hours.
(3) If you calculate deterioration factors under paragraph (c) of this section, identify the parameters and variables you used for the calculation.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34520, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.250
What records must I keep and what reports must I send to EPA?
(a) Send the Designated Compliance Officer information related to your U.S.-directed production volumes as described in § 1054.345. In addition, within 45 days after the end of the model year, you must send us a report
describing information about engines you produced during the model year as follows:
(1) State the total production volume for each engine family that is not subject to reporting under § 1054.345.
(2) State the total production volume for any engine family for which you produce engines after completing the reports required in § 1054.345.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) For production volumes you report under this paragraph (a), identify whether or not the figures include California sales. Include a separate count of production volumes for California sales if those figures are available.
(b) Organize and maintain the following records:
(1) A copy of all applications and any summary information you send us.
(2) Any of the information we specify in § 1054.205 that you were not required to include in your application.
(3) A detailed history of all emission-data engines. For each engine, describe all of the following:
(i) The emission-data engine's construction, including its origin and buildup, steps you took to ensure that it represents production engines, any components you built specially for it, and all the components you include in your application for certification.
(ii) How you accumulated engine operating hours (service accumulation), including the dates and the number of hours accumulated.
(iii) All maintenance, including modifications, parts changes, and other service, and the dates and reasons for the maintenance.
(iv) All your emission tests (valid and invalid), including the date and purpose of each test and documentation of test parameters as specified in part 40 CFR part 1065.
(v) All tests to diagnose engine or emission control performance, giving the date and time of each and the reasons for the test.
(vi) Any other significant events.
(4) Production figures for each emission family divided by assembly plant.
(5) Keep a list of engine identification numbers for all the engines you produce under each certificate of conformity.
(c) Keep required data from emission tests and all other information specified in this section for eight years after we issue your certificate. If you use the same emission data or other information for a later model year, the eight-year period restarts with each year that you continue to rely on the information.
(d) Store these records in any format and on any media as long as you can promptly send us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. You must keep these records readily available. We may review them at any time.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34520, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.255
What decisions may EPA make regarding a certificate of conformity?
(a) If we determine an application is complete and shows that the emission family meets all the requirements of this part and the Clean Air Act, we will issue a certificate of conformity for the emission family for that model year. We may make the approval subject to additional conditions.
(b) We may deny an application for certification if we determine that an emission family fails to comply with emission standards or other requirements of this part or the Clean Air Act. We will base our decision on all available information. If we deny an application, we will explain why in writing.
(c) In addition, we may deny your application or suspend or revoke a certificate of conformity if you do any of the following:
(1) Refuse to comply with any testing, reporting, or bonding requirements in this part.
(2) Submit false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting an application that causes submitted information to be false or incomplete.
(3) Cause any test data to become inaccurate.
(4) Deny us from completing authorized activities (see 40 CFR 1068.20). This includes a failure to provide reasonable assistance.
(5) Produce engines or equipment for importation into the United States at a location where local law prohibits us
from carrying out authorized activities.
(6) Fail to supply requested information or amend an application to include all engines or equipment being produced.
(7) Take any action that otherwise circumvents the intent of the Clean Air Act or this part.
(d) We may void a certificate of conformity if you fail to keep records, send reports, or give us information as required under this part or the Clean Air Act. Note that these are also violations of 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2).
(e) We may void a certificate of conformity if we find that you intentionally submitted false or incomplete information. This includes doing anything after submitting your application that causes the submitted information to be false or incomplete.
(f) If we deny an application or suspend, revoke, or void a certificate of conformity, you may ask for a hearing (see § 1054.820).
[86 FR 34521, June 29, 2021]

# Subpart D—Production-line Testing
§ 1054.300
Applicability.
This subpart specifies requirements for engine manufacturers to test their production engines for exhaust emissions to ensure that the engines are being produced as described in the application for certification. The production-line verification described in 40 CFR part 1060, subpart D, applies for equipment and components for evaporative emissions.
§ 1054.301
When must I test my production-line engines?
(a) If you produce engines that are subject to the requirements of this part, you must test them as described in this subpart, except as follows:
(1) Small-volume engine manufacturers may omit testing under this subpart.
(2) We may exempt small-volume emission families from routine testing under this subpart. Submit your request for approval as described in § 1054.210. In your request, describe your basis for projecting a production volume below 5,000 units. We will approve your request if we agree that you have made good-faith estimates of your production volumes. You must promptly notify us if your actual production exceeds 5,000 units during the model year. If you exceed the production limit or if there is evidence of a nonconformity, we may require you to test production-line engines under this subpart, or under 40 CFR part 1068, subpart E, even if we have approved an exemption under this paragraph (a)(2).
(b) We may suspend or revoke your certificate of conformity for certain engine families if your production-line engines do not meet the requirements of this part or you do not fulfill your obligations under this subpart (see §§ 1054.325 and 1054.340).
(c) Other regulatory provisions authorize us to suspend, revoke, or void your certificate of conformity, or order recalls for engine families, without regard to whether they have passed these production-line testing requirements. The requirements of this subpart do not affect our ability to do selective enforcement audits, as described in 40 CFR part 1068. Individual engines in families that pass these production-line testing requirements must also conform to all applicable regulations of this part and 40 CFR part 1068.
(d) You may use alternate programs for testing production-line engines in the following circumstances:
(1) You may use analyzers and sampling systems that meet the field-testing requirements of 40 CFR part 1065, subpart J, but not the otherwise applicable requirements in 40 CFR part 1065 for laboratory testing, to demonstrate compliance with emission standards if you double the minimum sampling rate specified in § 1054.310(b). Use measured test results to determine whether engines comply with applicable standards without applying a measurement allowance. This alternate program does not require prior approval but we may disallow use of this option where we determine that use of field-grade equipment would prevent you from being able to demonstrate that your engines are being produced to conform to the specifications in your application for certification.
(2) You may ask to use another alternate program for testing production-
line engines. In your request, you must show us that the alternate program gives equal assurance that your products meet the requirements of this part. We may waive some or all of this subpart's requirements if we approve your alternate approach. For example, in certain circumstances you may be able to give us equal assurance that your products meet the requirements of this part by using less rigorous measurement methods if you offset that by increasing the number of test engines.
(e) If you certify an engine family with carryover emission data, as described in § 1054.235(d), and these equivalent engine families consistently pass the production-line testing requirements over the preceding two-year period, you may ask for a reduced testing rate for further production-line testing for that family. The minimum testing rate is one engine per engine family. If we reduce your testing rate, we may limit our approval to any number of model years. In determining whether to approve your request, we may consider the number of engines that have failed the emission tests.
(f) We may ask you to make a reasonable number of production-line engines available for a reasonable time so we can test or inspect them for compliance with the requirements of this part.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34521, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.305
How must I prepare and test my production-line engines?
This section describes how to prepare and test production-line engines. You must assemble the test engine in a way that represents the assembly procedures for other engines in the engine family. You must ask us to approve any deviations from your normal assembly procedures for other production engines in the engine family.
(a)
Test procedures.
Test your production-line engines using the applicable testing procedures in subpart F of this part to show you meet the emission standards in subpart B of this part.
(b)
Modifying a test engine.
Once an engine is selected for testing (see § 1054.310), you may adjust, repair, prepare, or modify it or check its emissions only if one of the following is true:
(1) You document the need for doing so in your procedures for assembling and inspecting all your production engines and make the action routine for all the engines in the engine family.
(2) This subpart otherwise specifically allows your action.
(3) We approve your action in advance.
(c)
Engine malfunction.
If an engine malfunction prevents further emission testing, ask us to approve your decision to either repair the engine or delete it from the test sequence.
(d)
Setting adjustable parameters.
Before any test, we may require you to adjust any adjustable parameter to any setting within its physically adjustable range.
(1) [Reserved]
(2) We may specify adjustments within the physically adjustable range by considering their effect on emission levels. We may also consider how likely it is that someone will make such an adjustment with in-use equipment.
(3) We may specify an air-fuel ratio within the adjustable range specified in § 1054.115(b).
(e)
Stabilizing emission levels.
Use good engineering judgment to operate your engines before testing such that deterioration factors can be applied appropriately. Determine the stabilization period as follows:
(1) For engine families with a useful life at or below 300 hours, operate the engine for the same number of hours before starting emission measurements that you used for the emission-data engine, within one hour. For example, if the emission-data engine operated for 8 hours before the low-hour emission test, operate the test engines for 7 to 9 hours before starting emission measurements.
(2) For engine families with a useful life above 300 hours, operate each engine for no more than the greater of two periods:
(i) 12 hours.
(ii) The number of hours you operated your emission-data engine for certifying the engine family (see 40 CFR part 1065, subpart E, or the applicable regulations governing how you should prepare your test engine).
(f)
Damage during shipment.
If shipping an engine to a remote facility for production-line testing makes necessary an adjustment or repair, you must wait until after the initial emission test to do this work. We may waive this requirement if the test would be impossible or unsafe or if it would permanently damage the engine. Report to us, in your written report under § 1054.345, all adjustments or repairs you make on test engines before each test.
(g)
Retesting after invalid tests.
You may retest an engine if you determine an emission test is invalid under subpart F of this part. Explain in your written report reasons for invalidating any test and the emission results from all tests. If we determine that you improperly invalidated a test, we may require you to ask for our approval for future testing before substituting results of the new tests for invalid ones.
§ 1054.310
How must I select engines for production-line testing?
(a) Test engines from each engine family as described in this section based on test periods, as follows:
(1) For engine families with projected U.S.-directed production volume of at least 1,600, the test periods are defined as follows:
(i) If your annual production period is 120 days or less, the whole model year constitutes a single test period.
(ii) If your annual production period is 121 to 210 days, divide the annual production period evenly into two test periods.
(iii) If your annual production period is 211 to 300 days, divide the annual production period evenly into three test periods.
(iv) If your annual production period is 301 days or longer, divide the annual production period evenly into four test periods. For example, if your annual production period is 392 days (56 weeks), divide the annual production period into four test periods of 98 days (14 weeks).
(2) For engine families with projected U.S.-directed production volume below 1,600, the whole model year constitutes a single test period.
(b) Early in each test period, randomly select and test an engine from the end of the assembly line for each engine family.
(1) In the first test period for newly certified engines, randomly select and test one more engine. Then, calculate the required sample size for the model year as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) In later test periods of the same model year, combine the new test result with all previous testing in the model year. Then, calculate the required sample size for the model year as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) In the first test period for engine families relying on previously submitted test data, combine the new test result with the last test result from the previous model year. Then, calculate the required sample size for the model year as described in paragraph (c) of this section. Use the last test result from the previous model year only for this first calculation. For all subsequent calculations, use only results from the current model year.
(c) Calculate the required sample size for each engine family. Separately calculate this figure for HC + NO
X
and CO. The required sample size is the greater of these calculated values. Use the following equation:
ER08OC08.095
Where:
N = Required sample size for the model year.
t
95
= 95% confidence coefficient, which depends on the number of tests completed, n, as specified in the table in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. It defines 95% confidence intervals for a one-tail distribution.
σ = Test sample standard deviation (see paragraph (c)(2) of this section).
x = Mean of emission test results of the sample.
STD = Emission standard (or family emission limit, if applicable).
(1) Determine the 95% confidence coefficient, t
95
, from the following table:
n
t
95
n
t
95
n
t
95
2
6.31
12
1.80
22
1.72
3
2.92
13
1.78
23
1.72
4
2.35
14
1.77
24
1.71
5
2.13
15
1.76
25
1.71
6
2.02
16
1.75
26
1.71
7
1.94
17
1.75
27
1.71
8
1.90
18
1.74
28
1.70
9
1.86
19
1.73
29
1.70
10
1.83
20
1.73
30
1.70
11
1.81
21
1.72
31 +
1.65
(2) Calculate the standard deviation, σ, for the test sample using the following formula:
ER08OC08.096
Where:
X
i
= Emission test result for an individual engine.
n = The number of tests completed in an engine family.
(d) Use final deteriorated test results to calculate the variables in the equations in paragraph (c) of this section (see § 1054.315(a)(2)).
(e) After each new test, recalculate the required sample size using the updated mean values, standard deviations, and the appropriate 95-percent confidence coefficient.
(f) Distribute the remaining engine tests evenly throughout the rest of the year. You may need to adjust your schedule for selecting engines if the required sample size changes. If your scheduled quarterly testing for the remainder of the model year is sufficient to meet the calculated sample size, you may wait until the next quarter to do additional testing. Continue to randomly select engines from each engine family.
(g) Continue testing until one of the following things happens:
(1) After completing the minimum number of tests required in paragraph (b) of this section, the number of tests completed in an engine family, n, is greater than the required sample size, N, and the sample mean, x, is less than or equal to the emission standard. For example, if N = 5.1 after the fifth test, the sample-size calculation does not allow you to stop testing.
(2) The engine family does not comply according to § 1054.315.
(3) You test 30 engines from the engine family.
(4) You test one percent of your projected annual U.S.-directed production volume for the engine family, rounded to the nearest whole number. Do not count an engine under this paragraph (g)(4) if it fails to meet an applicable emission standard.
(5) You choose to declare that the engine family does not comply with the requirements of this subpart.
(h) If the sample-size calculation allows you to stop testing for one pollutant but not another, you must continue measuring emission levels of all pollutants for any additional tests required under this section. However, you need not continue making the calculations specified in this subpart for the pollutant for which testing is not required. This paragraph (h) does not affect the number of tests required under this section, the required calculations in § 1054.315, or the remedial steps required under § 1054.320.
(i) You may elect to test more randomly chosen engines than we require under this section. Include these engines in the sample-size calculations.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34521, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.315
How do I know when my engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
This section describes the pass-fail criteria for the production-line testing requirements. We apply these criteria on an emission-family basis. See § 1054.320 for the requirements that apply to individual engines that fail a production-line test.
(a) Calculate your test results as follows:
(1)
Initial and final test results.
Calculate and round the test results for each engine. If you do multiple tests on an engine in a given configuration (without modifying the engine), calculate the initial results for each test, then add all the test results together and divide by the number of tests. Round this final calculated value for the final test results on that engine.
(2)
Final deteriorated test results.
Apply the deterioration factor for the engine family to the final test results (see § 1054.240(c)).
(3)
Round deteriorated test results.
Round the results to the number of decimal places in the emission standard expressed to one more decimal place.
(b) Construct the following CumSum Equation for each engine family for HC + NO
X
and CO emissions:
C
i
= Max [0 or C
i-1
+ X
i
−(STD + 0.25 × σ)]
Where:
C
i
= The current CumSum statistic.
C
i-1
= The previous CumSum statistic. For the first test, the CumSum statistic is 0 (i.e., C
1
= 0).
X
i
= The current emission test result for an individual engine.
STD = Emission standard (or family emission limit, if applicable).
(c) Use final deteriorated test results to calculate the variables in the equation in paragraph (b) of this section (see § 1054.315(a)).
(d) After each new test, recalculate the CumSum statistic.
(e) If you test more than the required number of engines, include the results from these additional tests in the CumSum Equation.
(f) After each test, compare the current CumSum statistic, C
i
, to the recalculated Action Limit, H, defined as H = 5.0 × σ.
(g) If the CumSum statistic exceeds the Action Limit in two consecutive tests, the engine family fails the production-line testing requirements of this subpart. Tell us within ten working days if this happens. You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the entire engine family as described in § 1054.225(f).
(h) If you amend the application for certification for an engine family under § 1054.225, do not change any previous calculations of sample size or CumSum statistics for the model year.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34521, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.320
What happens if one of my production-line engines fails to meet emission standards?
(a) If you have a production-line engine with final deteriorated test results exceeding one or more emission standards (see § 1054.315(a)), the certificate of conformity is automatically suspended for that failing engine. You must take the following actions before your certificate of conformity can cover that engine:
(1) Correct the problem and retest the engine to show it complies with all emission standards.
(2) Include the test results and describe the remedy for each engine in the written report required under § 1054.345.
(b) You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the entire engine family at this point (see § 1054.225).
(c) Use test data from a failing engine for the compliance demonstration under § 1054.315 as follows:
(1) Use the original, failing test results as described in § 1054.315, whether or not you modify the engine or destroy it.
(2) Do not use test results from a modified engine as final test results under § 1054.315, unless you change your production process for all engines to match the adjustments you made to the failing engine. If this occurs, count the modified engine as the next engine in the sequence, rather than averaging the results with the testing that occurred before modifying the engine.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34521, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.325
What happens if an engine family fails the production-line testing requirements?
(a) We may suspend your certificate of conformity for an engine family if it fails under § 1054.315. The suspension may apply to all facilities producing engines from an engine family even if you find noncompliant engines only at one facility.
(b) We will tell you in writing if we suspend your certificate in whole or in part. We will not suspend a certificate until at least 15 days after the engine family fails. The suspension is effective when you receive our notice.
(c) Up to 15 days after we suspend the certificate for an engine family, you may ask for a hearing (see § 1054.820). If we agree before a hearing occurs that we used erroneous information in deciding to suspend the certificate, we will reinstate the certificate.
(d) Section 1054.335 specifies steps you must take to remedy the cause of the engine family's production-line failure. All the engines you have produced since the end of the last test period are presumed noncompliant and should be addressed in your proposed remedy. We may require you to apply the remedy to engines produced earlier if we determine that the cause of the failure is likely to have affected the earlier engines.
(e) You may request to amend the application for certification to raise the FEL of the engine family before or after we suspend your certificate as described in § 1054.225(f). We will approve your request if the failure is not caused by a defect and it is clear that you used good engineering judgment in establishing the original FEL.
§ 1054.330
May I sell engines from an engine family with a suspended certificate of conformity?
You may sell engines that you produce after we suspend the engine family's certificate of conformity under § 1054.315 only if one of the following occurs:
(a) You test each engine you produce and show it complies with emission standards that apply.
(b) We conditionally reinstate the certificate for the engine family. We may do so if you agree to recall all the affected engines and remedy any noncompliance at no expense to the owner if later testing shows that the engine family still does not comply.
§ 1054.335
How do I ask EPA to reinstate my suspended certificate?
(a) Send us a written report asking us to reinstate your suspended certificate. In your report, identify the reason for noncompliance, propose a remedy for the engine family, and commit to a date for carrying it out. In your proposed remedy include any quality control measures you propose to keep the problem from happening again.
(b) Give us data from production-line testing that shows the remedied engine family complies with all the emission standards that apply.
§ 1054.340
When may EPA revoke my certificate under this subpart and how may I sell these engines again?
(a) We may revoke your certificate for an engine family in the following cases:
(1) You do not meet the reporting requirements.
(2) Your engine family fails to comply with the requirements of this subpart and your proposed remedy to address a suspended certificate under § 1054.335 is inadequate to solve the problem or requires you to change the engine's design or emission control system.
(b) To sell engines from an engine family with a revoked certificate of conformity, you must modify the engine family and then show it complies with the requirements of this part.
(1) If we determine your proposed design change may not control emissions for the engine's full useful life, we will tell you within five working days after receiving your report. In this case we will decide whether production-line testing will be enough for us to evaluate the change or whether you need to do more testing.
(2) Unless we require more testing, you may show compliance by testing production-line engines as described in this subpart.
(3) We will issue a new or updated certificate of conformity when you have met these requirements.
§ 1054.345
What production-line testing records must I send to EPA?
(a) Within 45 days of the end of each test period, send us a report with the following information:
(1) Describe any facility used to test production-line engines and state its location.
(2) State the total U.S.-directed production volume and number of tests for each engine family.
(3) Describe how you randomly selected engines.
(4) Describe each test engine, including the engine family's identification and the engine's model year, build date, model number, identification number, and number of hours of operation before testing.
(5) Identify how you accumulated hours of operation on the engines and describe the procedure and schedule you used.
(6) Provide the test number; the date, time and duration of testing; test procedure; all initial test results; final test results; and final deteriorated test results for all tests. Provide the emission results for all measured pollutants. Include information for both valid and invalid tests and the reason for any invalidation.
(7) Describe completely and justify any nonroutine adjustment, modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, or test for the test engine if you did not report it separately under this subpart. Include the results of any emission measurements, regardless of the procedure or type of engine.
(8) Provide the CumSum analysis required in § 1054.315 and the sample-size calculation required in § 1054.310 for each engine family.
(9) Report on each failed engine as described in § 1054.320.
(10) State the date the test period ended for each engine family.
(b) We may ask you to add information to your written report so we can determine whether your new engines conform with the requirements of this subpart. We may also ask you to send less information.
(c) An authorized representative of your company must sign the following statement:
We submit this report under sections 208 and 213 of the Clean Air Act. Our production-line testing conformed completely with the requirements of 40 CFR part 1054. We have not changed production processes or quality-control procedures for test engines in a way that might affect emission controls. All the information in this report is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I know of the penalties for violating the Clean Air Act and the regulations. (Authorized Company Representative)
(d) Send electronic reports of production-line testing to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.
(e) We will send copies of your reports to anyone from the public who asks for them. Section 1054.815 describes how we treat information you consider confidential.
§ 1054.350
What records must I keep?
(a) Organize and maintain your records as described in this section. We may review your records at any time.
(b) Keep paper or electronic records of your production-line testing for eight years after you complete all the testing required for an engine family in a model year.
(c) Keep a copy of the written reports described in § 1054.345.
(d) Keep the following additional records:
(1) A description of all test equipment for each test cell that you can use to test production-line engines.
(2) The names of supervisors involved in each test.
(3) The name of anyone who authorizes adjusting, repairing, preparing, or modifying a test engine and the names of all supervisors who oversee this work.
(4) If you shipped the engine for testing, the date you shipped it, the associated storage or port facility, and the date the engine arrived at the testing facility.
(5) Any records related to your production-line tests that are not in the written report.
(6) A brief description of any significant events during testing not otherwise described in the written report or in this section.
(7) Any information specified in § 1054.345 that you do not include in your written reports.
(e) If we ask, you must give us a more detailed description of projected or actual production figures for an engine family. We may ask you to divide your production figures by maximum engine power, displacement, fuel type,
or assembly plant (if you produce engines at more than one plant).
(f) Keep records of the engine identification number for each engine you produce under each certificate of conformity. You may identify these numbers as a range. Give us these records within 30 days if we ask for them.
(g) We may ask you to keep or send other information necessary to implement this subpart.

# Subpart E—In-use Testing
§ 1054.401
General provisions.
We may perform in-use testing of any engines or equipment subject to the standards of this part. We will consult with you as needed for information or special equipment related to testing your engines.

# Subpart F—Test Procedures
§ 1054.501
How do I run a valid emission test?
(a)
Applicability.
This subpart is addressed to you as a manufacturer but it applies equally to anyone who does testing for you, and to us when we perform testing to determine if your engines or equipment meet emission standards.
(b)
General requirements.
Use the equipment and procedures for spark-ignition engines in 40 CFR part 1065 to determine whether engines meet the exhaust emission standards, as follows:
(1) Measure the emissions of all exhaust constituents subject to emission standards as specified in § 1054.505 and 40 CFR part 1065. Measure CO
2
, N
2
O, and CH
4
as described in § 1054.235. See § 1054.650 for special provisions that apply for variable-speed engines (including engines shipped without governors).
(2) Use the appropriate fuels and lubricants specified in 40 CFR part 1065, subpart H, for all the testing we require in this part. Gasoline test fuel must meet the specifications in 40 CFR 1065.710(c), except as specified in § 1054.145(n) and 40 CFR 1065.10 and 1065.701. Use gasoline specified for general testing except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. For service accumulation, use the test fuel or any commercially available fuel that is representative of the fuel that in-use engines will use. Note that § 1054.145(n) allows for testing with gasoline test fuels specified by the California Air Resources Board for any individual engine family.
(3) Ambient conditions for duty-cycle testing must be within ranges specified in 40 CFR 1065.520, subject to the provisions of § 1054.115(c).
(i)
Corrections.
Emissions may not be corrected for the effects of test temperature or pressure. You may correct emissions for humidity as specified in 40 CFR 1065.670.
(ii)
Intake air temperature.
Measure engine intake air temperature as described in 40 CFR 1065.125, and control it if necessary, consistent with good engineering judgment. For example, since the purpose of this requirement is to ensure that the measured air temperature is consistent with the intake air temperature that would occur during in-use operation at the same ambient temperature, do not cool the intake air and do not measure air temperature at a point where engine heat affects the temperature measurement.
(4) The provisions of 40 CFR 1065.405 describe how to prepare an engine for testing. However, you may consider emission levels stable without measurement after 12 hours of engine operation, except for the following special provisions that apply for engine families with a useful life of 300 hours or less:
(i) We will not approve a stabilization period longer than 12 hours even if you show that emissions are not yet stabilized.
(ii) Identify the number of hours you use to stabilize engines for low-hour emission measurements. You may consider emissions stable at any point less than 12 hours. For example, you may choose a point at which emission levels reach a low value before the effects of deterioration are established.
(5) Prepare your engines for testing by installing a governor that you normally use on production engines, consistent with §§ 1054.235(b) and 1054.505.
(6) During testing, supply the engine with fuel in a manner consistent with how it will be supplied with fuel in use. If you sell engines with complete fuel systems and your production engines
will be equipped with a vapor line that routes running loss vapors into the engine's intake system, measure exhaust emissions using a complete fuel system representing a production configuration that sends fuel vapors to the test engine's intake system in a way that represents the expected in-use operation. You may alternatively demonstrate by engineering analysis that your engines will continue to meet emission standards for any amount of running loss vapor that can reasonably be expected during in-use operation.
(7) Determine your test fuel's carbon mass fraction,
w
c,
using a calculation based on fuel properties as described in 40 CFR 1065.655(d); however, you must measure fuel properties for
α
and
β
rather than using the default values specified in 40 CFR 1065.655(e).
(c)
Special and alternate procedures.
You may use special or alternate procedures to the extent we allow them under 40 CFR 1065.10. The following additional provisions apply:
(1) If you are unable to run the test cycle specified in this part for your engine, use an alternate test cycle that will result in a cycle-weighted emission measurement equivalent to the expected average in-use emissions. This cycle must be approved under 40 CFR 1065.10.
(2) Describe in your application for certification any specially designed fixtures or other hardware if they are needed for proper testing of your engines. (Note: You do not need to specify the size or performance characteristics of engine dynamometers.) You must send us these fixtures or other hardware if we ask for them. We may waive the requirement of § 1054.205(aa) to identify a test facility in the United States for such engine families as long as the projected U.S.-directed production volume of all your engine families using the provisions of this paragraph (c)(2) is less than 5 percent of your total production volume from all engine families certified under this part 1054.
(d)
Wintertime engines.
You may test wintertime engines at the ambient temperatures specified in 40 CFR 1065.520, even though this does not represent in-use operation for these engines (40 CFR 1065.10(c)(1)). In this case, you may use good engineering judgment to modify the test engine as needed to achieve intake temperatures that are analogous to in-use conditions. You may also test wintertime engines at reduced ambient temperatures as specified in 40 CFR 1051.505. Use the gasoline specified for low-temperature testing only if you test your engines at ambient temperatures below 20 °C.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 56511, Oct. 30, 2009; 78 FR 36397, June 17, 2013; 80 FR 9114, Feb. 19, 2015; 86 FR 34522, June 29, 2021; 89 FR 29794, Apr. 22, 2024]
§ 1054.505
How do I test engines?
(a) This section describes how to test engines under steady-state conditions. We may also perform other testing as allowed by the Clean Air Act. Sample emissions separately for each mode, then calculate an average emission level for the whole cycle using the weighting factors specified for each mode. Control engine speed as specified in this section. Use one of the following methods for confirming torque values for nonhandheld engines:
(1) Calculate torque-related cycle statistics and compare with the established criteria as specified in 40 CFR 1065.514 to confirm that the test is valid.
(2) Evaluate each mode separately to validate the duty cycle. All torque feedback values recorded during non-idle sampling periods must be within ±2 percent of the reference value or within ±0.27 N·m of the reference value, whichever is greater. Also, the mean torque value during non-idle sampling periods must be within ±1 percent of the reference value or ±0.12 N·m of the reference value, whichever is greater. Control torque during idle as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Measure emissions by testing engines on a dynamometer with the test procedures for constant-speed engines in 40 CFR part 1065 while using the steady-state duty cycles identified in this paragraph (b) to determine whether it meets the exhaust emission standards specified in § 1054.101(a). This paragraph (b) applies for all engines, including those not meeting the definition of “constant-speed engine” in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
(1) For handheld engines, use the two-mode duty cycle described in paragraph (a) of Appendix II of this part. Establish an engine's rated speed as follows:
(i) For ungoverned handheld engines used in fixed-speed applications all having approximately the same nominal in-use operating speed, hold engine speed within 350 rpm of the nominal speed for testing. We may allow you to include in your engine family, without additional testing, a small number of engines that will be installed such that they have a different nominal speed. If your engine family includes a majority of engines with approximately the same nominal in-use operating speed and a substantial number of engines with different nominal speeds, you must test engines as specified in this paragraph (b)(1)(i) and paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(ii) For ungoverned handheld engines for which there is not a dominant value for nominal in-use operating speeds, hold engine speed within 350 rpm of the point at which the engine generates maximum power.
(iii) For governed handheld engines, hold engine speed at maximum test speed, as defined in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
(2) For nonhandheld engines designed to idle, use the six-mode duty cycle described in paragraph (b)(1) of appendix II of this part; use the five-mode duty cycle described in paragraph (b)(2) of appendix II of this part for engines that are not designed to idle. If an engine family includes engines designed to idle and engines not designed to idle, include in the application for certification the test results for the duty cycle that will result in worst-case HC+NO
X
emissions based on measured values for that engine family. Control engine speed during the full-load operating mode as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. For all other modes, control engine speed to within 5 percent of the nominal speed specified in paragraph (d) of this section or let the installed governor (in the production configuration) control engine speed. For all modes except idle, control torque as needed to meet the cycle-validation criteria in paragraph (a) of this section. The governor may be adjusted before emission sampling to target the nominal speed identified in paragraph (d) of this section, but the installed governor must control engine speed throughout the emission-sampling period whether the governor is adjusted or not.
(c) During idle mode for nonhandheld engines, operate the engine with the following parameters:
(1) Allow the engine to operate at the idle speed determined by the installed governor. If any production engines from the engine family have a user-selectable idle speed, operate the engine with an installed governor that controls engine speed to the lowest available speed setting.
(2) Keep engine torque under 5 percent of the nominal torque value for Mode 1.
(3) You must conduct testing at the idle mode even if the allowable torque values overlap with those for another specified mode.
(d) During full-load operation for nonhandheld engines, operate the engine with the following parameters:
(1) Select an engine speed for testing as follows:
(i) For engines with a governed speed at full load between 2700 and 4000 rpm, select appropriate test speeds for the emission family. If all the engines in the emission family are used in intermediate-speed equipment, select a test speed of 3060 rpm. The test associated with intermediate-speed operation is referred to as the A Cycle. If all the engines in the emission family are used in rated-speed equipment, select a test speed of 3600 rpm. The test associated with rated-speed operation is referred to as the B Cycle. If an emission family includes engines used in both intermediate-speed equipment and rated-speed equipment, measure emissions at test speeds of both 3060 and 3600 rpm. In unusual circumstances, you may ask to use a test speed different than that specified in this paragraph (d)(1)(i) if it better represents in-use operation.
(ii) For engines with a governed speed below 2700 or above 4000 rpm, ask us to approve one or more test speeds to represent those engines using the provisions for special procedures in 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(2).
(2) Operate the engine ungoverned at wide-open throttle at the test speed established in paragraph (d)(1) of this section until the engine reaches thermal stability as described in 40 CFR 1065.530(a)(2)(ii). Record the torque value after stabilization. Use this value for the full-load torque setting and for denormalizing the rest of the duty cycle.
(3) Control engine speed during emission sampling to stay within 5 percent of the nominal speed identified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(4) The provisions of this paragraph (d) apply instead of the engine mapping procedures in 40 CFR 1065.510.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 23751, Apr. 28, 2014; 86 FR 34522, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4667, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1054.520
What testing must I perform to establish deterioration factors?
Sections 1054.240 and 1054.245 describe the required methods for testing to establish deterioration factors for an emission family.

# Subpart G—Special Compliance Provisions
§ 1054.601
What compliance provisions apply?
(a) Engine and equipment manufacturers, as well as owners, operators, and rebuilders of engines subject to the requirements of this part, and all other persons, must observe the provisions of this part, the requirements and prohibitions in 40 CFR part 1068, and the provisions of the Clean Air Act.
(b) Note that the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.103(f) prohibit engine manufacturers from deviating from normal production and inventory practices to stockpile engines with a date of manufacture before new or changed emission standards take effect. If your normal practice for producing engines subject to this part 1054 includes maintaining engines in inventory for some engine families for more than 12 months, you must get our prior approval to continue this practice for model years in which emission standards change. Include in your request information showing that this is necessary and it is consistent with your normal business practice. Unless we specify otherwise, include relevant inventory and production records from the preceding eight years. Note that 40 CFR 1068.103(f) applies to any engines inventoried beyond your normal practice and authorizes us to review your records to verify your normal practices, whether or not you maintain the engines in inventory for more than 12 months.
(c) The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.215 apply for cases in which the manufacturer takes possession of engines for purposes of recovering components as described in this paragraph (c). Note that this paragraph (c) does not apply for certified engines that still have the emission control information label since such engines do not need an exemption.
(1) You must label the engine as specified in 40 CFR 1068.215(c)(3), except that the label may be removable as specified in 40 CFR 1068.45(b).
(2) You may not resell the engine. For components other than the engine block, you may generate revenue from the sale of the components that you recover, or from the sale of new engines containing these components. You may also use components other than the engine block for engine rebuilds as otherwise allowed under the regulations. You may use the engine block from an engine that is exempted under this paragraph (c) only to make a new engine, and then only where such an engine has a separate identity from the original engine.
(3) Once the engine has reached its final destination, you may stop collecting records describing the engine's final disposition and how you use the engine. This does not affect the requirement to maintain the records you have already collected under 40 CFR 1068.215. This also does not affect the requirement to maintain records for new engines.
(d) Subpart C of this part describes how to test and certify dual-fuel and flexible-fuel engines. Some multi-fuel engines may not fit the definitions in this part of either dual-fuel or flexible-fuel. For such engines, we will determine whether it is most appropriate to treat them as single-fuel engines, dual-fuel engines, or flexible-fuel engines
based on the range of possible and expected fuel mixtures.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23025, Apr. 30, 2010; 86 FR 34522, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.610
What is the exemption for delegated final assembly?
The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.261 related to delegated final assembly do not apply for handheld engines certified under this part 1054. The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.261 apply for nonhandheld engines, with the following exceptions and clarifications:
(a) Through the 2014 model year, you may use the provisions of this section for engines you sell to a distributor, where you establish a contractual arrangement in which you designate the distributor to be your agent in all matters related to compliance with the requirements of this section. Identify each of the distributors you intend to designate as your agent under this paragraph (a) in your application for certification. You may continue to use the provisions of this paragraph (a) this for later model years for specific distributors if we approve it based on your clear and convincing demonstration that each distributor can be expected to comply fully with the requirements of this section and 40 CFR 1068.261. We may set additional conditions beyond the provisions specified in this section to ensure that all engines will be in a certified configuration when installed by the equipment manufacturer.
(b) If you identify distributors as your agents under paragraph (a) of this section, you must perform or arrange for audits of all participating distributors and equipment manufacturers based on the following auditing rate instead of the provisions specified in 40 CFR 1068.261(d)(3)(i) and (ii):
(1) If you sell engines to 48 or more equipment manufacturers under the provisions of this section, you must annually perform or arrange for audits of twelve equipment manufacturers to whom you sell engines under this section. To select individual equipment manufacturers, divide all the affected equipment manufacturers into quartiles based on the number of engines they buy from you; select equal numbers of equipment manufacturers from each quartile each model year as much as possible. Vary the equipment manufacturers selected for auditing from year to year, though audits may be repeated in later model years if you find or suspect that a particular equipment manufacturer is not properly installing aftertreatment devices.
(2) If you sell engines to fewer than 48 equipment manufacturers under the provisions of this section, set up a plan to perform or arrange for audits of each equipment manufacturer on average once every four model years.
§ 1054.612
What special provisions apply for equipment manufacturers modifying certified nonhandheld engines?
The provisions of this section are limited to small-volume emission families.
(a)
General provisions.
If you buy certified nonhandheld engines for installation in equipment you produce, but you install the engines such that they use intake or exhaust systems that are not part of the originally certified configuration, you become the engine manufacturer for those engines and must certify that they will meet emission standards. We will allow you to utilize the provisions for simplified certification specified in paragraph (b) of this section, as long as your design stays within the overall specifications from the original engine manufacturer (such as exhaust backpressure) and you use a catalyst as described in the original engine manufacturer's application for certification.
(b)
Simplified certification.
You must perform testing with an emission-data engine to show that you meet exhaust emission standards; however, you may use the deterioration factor from the original engine manufacturer. The production-line testing requirements in subpart D of this part do not apply for engines certified under this section. You must meet all the other requirements that apply to engine manufacturers for engines subject to standards under this part. The engine family must have the same useful life value specified by the original engine manufacturer for that engine. In your application for certification describe any differences between the original engine
manufacturer's design and yours and explain why the deterioration data generated by the original engine manufacturer is appropriate for your configuration.
(c)
Engine exemption.
As an engine manufacturer, you may produce nonconforming engines for equipment manufacturers as allowed under this section. You do not have to request this exemption for your engines, but you must have written assurance from equipment manufacturers that they need a certain number of exempted engines under this section. Add a removable label to the engines as described in 40 CFR 1068.262.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34522, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.615
What is the exemption for engines certified to standards for Large SI engines?
(a) An engine is exempt from the requirements of this part if it is in an emission family that has a valid certificate of conformity showing that it meets emission standards and other requirements under 40 CFR part 1048 for the appropriate model year.
(b) The only requirements or prohibitions from this part that apply to an engine that is exempt under this section are in this section.
(c) If your engines do not have the certificate required in paragraph (a) of this section, they will be subject to the provisions of this part. Introducing these engines into U.S. commerce without a valid exemption or certificate of conformity violates the prohibitions in 40 CFR 1068.101(a).
(d) Engines exempted under this section are subject to all the requirements affecting engines under 40 CFR part 1048, including evaporative emission standards. The requirements and restrictions of 40 CFR part 1048 apply to anyone manufacturing these engines, anyone manufacturing equipment that uses these engines, and all other persons in the same manner as if these were nonroad spark-ignition engines above 19 kW.
(e) Engines exempted under this section may not generate or use emission credits under this part 1054.
§ 1054.620
What are the provisions for exempting engines used solely for competition?
The provisions of this section apply for new engines and equipment built on or after January 1, 2010.
(a) We may grant you an exemption from the standards and requirements of this part for a new engine on the grounds that it is to be used solely for competition. The requirements of this part, other than those in this section, do not apply to engines that we exempt for use solely for competition.
(b) We will exempt engines that we determine will be used solely for competition. The basis of our determination is described in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Exemptions granted under this section are good for only one model year and you must request renewal for each subsequent model year. We will not approve your renewal request if we determine the engine will not be used solely for competition.
(c) Engines meeting all the following criteria are considered to be used solely for competition:
(1) Neither the engine nor any equipment containing the engine may be displayed for sale in any public dealership or otherwise offered for sale to the general public. Note that this does not preclude display of these engines as long as they are not available for sale to the general public.
(2) Sale of the equipment in which the engine is installed must be limited to professional competition teams, professional competitors, or other qualified competitors. Engine manufacturers may sell loose engines to these same qualified competitors, and to equipment manufacturers supplying competition models for qualified competitors.
(3) The engine and the equipment in which it is installed must have performance characteristics that are substantially superior to noncompetitive models.
(4) The engines are intended for use only as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(d) You may ask us to approve an exemption for engines not meeting the criteria listed in paragraph (c) of this section as long as you have clear and
convincing evidence that the engines will be used solely for competition.
(e) Engines are considered to be used solely for competition only if their use is limited to competition events sanctioned by a state or federal government agency or another widely recognized public organization with authorizing permits for participating competitors. Operation of such engines may include only racing events, trials to qualify for racing events, and practice associated with racing events. Authorized attempts to set speed records are also considered racing events. Engines will not be considered to be used solely for competition if they are ever used for any recreational or other noncompetitive purpose. Any use of exempt engines in recreational events is a violation of 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(4).
(f) You must permanently label engines exempted under this section to clearly indicate that they are to be used only for competition. Failure to properly label an engine will void the exemption for that engine.
(g) If we request it, you must provide us any information we need to determine whether the engines are used solely for competition. This would generally include documentation regarding the number of engines and the ultimate purchaser of each engine as well as any documentation showing an equipment manufacturer's request for an exempted engine. Keep these records for five years.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34522, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.630
What provisions apply for importation of individual items for personal use?
(a) Any individual may import previously used nonconforming engines for purposes other than resale, but no more than once in any five-year period. This may include up to three nonconforming engines imported at the same time. To import engines under this section, provide to the Customs official the following information:
(1) Identify your name, address, and telephone number.
(2) If you are importing engines under this section on behalf of another person, identify the ultimate engine owner's name, address, and telephone number.
(3) Identify the total number of engines you are importing and specify the make, model, identification number, and original production year of each engine.
(4) State: “I am importing these previously used engines for personal use. I have not imported any engines under the provisions of 40 CFR 1054.630 within the previous five years. I am not importing these engines for purpose of resale. I authorize EPA enforcement officers to inspect my engines and my facilities as permitted by the Clean Air Act.”
(b) We may require you to send us additional information but you do not need written approval from us to import engines under this section. We will also not require a U.S. Customs Service bond for engines you import under this section.
(c) The provisions of this section may not be used to circumvent emission standards that apply to new engines under this part. For example, you may not purchase new engines and use them in a trivial manner outside of the United States to qualify for importation under this section.
(d) If you violate the provisions of this section, or submit false information to obtain this exemption, you will be subject to civil penalties as specified in 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2) and (b)(5).
§ 1054.635
What special provisions apply for small-volume engine and equipment manufacturers?
This section describes how we apply the special provisions in this part for small-volume engine and equipment manufacturers.
(a) If you qualify under paragraph (1) or (2) of the definition of small-volume engine manufacturer or under paragraph (1) or (2) of the definition of small-volume equipment manufacturer in § 1054.801, the small-volume provisions apply as specified in this part.
(b) If you are a small business (as defined by the Small Business Administration at 13 CFR 121.201) that manufactures nonroad spark-ignition engines or equipment, but you do not qualify under paragraph (1) or (2) of the
definition of small-volume engine manufacturer or under paragraph (1) or (2) of the definition of small-volume equipment manufacturer in § 1054.801, you may ask us to designate you to be a small-volume engine or equipment manufacturer. You may do this whether you began manufacturing engines before, during, or after 2007. We may set other reasonable conditions that are consistent with the intent of this section and the Clean Air Act.
(c) Special provisions apply for small-volume engine and equipment manufacturers, as illustrated by the following examples:
(1) Additional lead time and other provisions related to the transition to new emission standards. See § 1054.145.
(2) More flexible arrangements for creating engine families. See § 1054.230.
(3) Assigned deterioration factors. See § 1054.240.
(4) Waived requirements for production-line testing. See § 1054.301.
(5) Streamlined certification provisions for equipment manufacturers relying on engine manufacturer's design parameters. See § 1054.612.
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Additional special provisions apply for small-volume engine and equipment manufacturers under 40 CFR part 1068. For example, see 40 CFR 1068.250.
(d) Small-volume engine and equipment manufacturers may ask us to waive or modify the requirements of § 1054.690 if this would cause a serious economic hardship, as long as you demonstrate to us in some other way that you will meet any potential compliance-or enforcement-related obligations. In evaluating such a request, we would consider the extent to which there is a risk of noncompliance or nonconformity and the extent to which the manufacturer could be expected to fulfill future regulatory obligations and administrative judgments. We may also consider how many years the manufacturer has certified engines without a violation or a finding of noncompliance to determine whether to adjust applicable asset thresholds or to reduce the minimum bond value. We may set other reasonable conditions to ensure that the manufacturer will meet applicable requirements.
(e) If you use any of the provisions of this part that apply specifically to small-volume manufacturers and we find that you exceed the production limits or otherwise do not qualify as a small-volume manufacturer, we may consider you to be in violation of the requirements that apply for companies that are not small-volume manufacturers for those engines produced in excess of the specified production limits. If you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer (based on increased production volumes or other factors), we will work with you to determine a reasonable schedule for complying with additional requirements that apply. For example, if you no longer qualify as a small-volume engine manufacturer shortly before you certify your engines for the next model year, we might allow you to use assigned deterioration factors for one more model year.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34522, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.645
What special provisions apply for converting an engine to use an alternate fuel?
A certificate of conformity is no longer valid for an engine if the engine is modified such that it is not in a configuration covered by the certificate. This section applies if such modifications are done to convert the engine to run on a different fuel type. Such engines may need to be recertified as specified in this section if the certificate is no longer valid for that engine.
(a) Converting a certified new engine to run on a different fuel type violates 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1) if the modified engine is not covered by a certificate of conformity.
(b) Converting a certified engine that is not new to run on a different fuel type violates 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) if the modified engine is not covered by a certificate of conformity. We may specify alternate certification provisions consistent with the requirements of this part. For example, you may certify the modified engine for a partial useful life. For example, if the engine is modified halfway through its original useful life period, you may generally certify the engine based on completing the original useful life period;
or if the engine is modified after the original useful life period is past, you may generally certify the engine based on testing that does not involve further durability demonstration.
(c) Engines may be certified using the certification procedures for new engines as specified in this part or using the certification procedures for aftermarket parts as specified in 40 CFR part 85, subpart V. Unless the original engine manufacturer continues to be responsible for the engine as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, you must remove the original engine manufacturer's emission control information label if you recertify the engine.
(d) The original engine manufacturer is not responsible for operation of modified engines in configurations resulting from modifications performed by others. In cases where the modification allows an engine to be operated in either its original configuration or a modified configuration, the original engine manufacturer remains responsible for operation of the modified engine in its original configuration.
(e) Entities producing conversion kits may obtain certificates of conformity for the converted engines. Such entities are engine manufacturers for purposes of this part.
§ 1054.650
What special provisions apply for adding or changing governors?
The special provisions in this section apply for engines that will not be governed to control engine speeds consistent with the constant-speed operation reflected by the duty cycles specified in § 1054.505. We refer to these as constant-speed governors in this section. Paragraph (a) of this section also applies for any engines shipped without installed governors.
(a) The representative-testing requirements of 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(1) related to in-use duty cycles do not apply to engines you produce and ship without constant-speed governors if you comply with all the following requirements:
(1) You must have test data showing that the effectiveness of the engine's emission controls over the expected range of in-use operation will be similar to that measured over the specified duty cycle. Alternatively, if your emission controls depend on maintaining a consistent air-fuel ratio, you may demonstrate that the engine is calibrated to maintain a consistent air-fuel ratio over the expected range of in-use operation.
(2) Describe in your application for certification the data and analysis that supports your conclusion.
(b) It is a violation of the tampering provisions in 40 CFR 1068.101(b)(1) to remove a governor from a certified engine unless you recertify the engine in the modified configuration.
§ 1054.655
What special provisions apply for installing and removing altitude kits?
An action for the purpose of installing or modifying altitude kits and performing other changes to compensate for changing altitude is not considered a prohibited act under 40 CFR 1068.101(b) if it is done consistent with the manufacturer's instructions.
[86 FR 34522, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.660
What are the provisions for exempting emergency rescue equipment?
The provisions of this section apply for new equipment built on or after January 1, 2010.
(a) Equipment manufacturers may introduce into U.S. commerce equipment that is not certified to current emission standards under the following conditions if the equipment will be used solely in emergency rescue situations:
(1) You must determine annually that no engines certified to current emission standards are available to power the equipment safely and practically. We may review your records supporting this determination at any time.
(2) You may not use exempted engines for the following equipment used to provide remote power to a rescue tool: generators, alternators, compressors, or pumps.
(3) If engines that meet less stringent emission standards are capable of powering your equipment safely and practically, you must use them as a condition of this exemption. You must
use available engines meeting the most stringent standards feasible.
(4) You must send the engine manufacturer a written request for each exempted equipment model.
(5) You must notify the Designated Compliance Officer of your intent to use the provisions of this section. We may require you to notify us annually or to send us annual reports describing how you meet the conditions of this section.
(b) For the purposes of this section, “emergency rescue situations” means firefighting or other situations in which a person is retrieved from imminent danger.
(c) As an engine manufacturer, you may produce exempt engines under this section without our prior approval if you have a written request for an exempted engine for use in emergency rescue equipment from the equipment manufacturer. You must permanently label engines with the following statement: “EMERGENCY RESCUE EQUIPMENT—EXEMPT FROM EMISSION STANDARDS UNDER 40 CFR 1054.660.” Failure to properly label an engine will void the exemption.
(d) We may discontinue an exemption under this section if we find that engines are not used solely for emergency rescue equipment or if we find that a certified engine is available to power the equipment safely and practically.
§ 1054.690
What bond requirements apply for certified engines?
This section generally applies for certifying engine manufacturers. It also applies to importers that do not certify engines as described in paragraph (j) of this section.
(a) Before introducing certified engines into U.S. commerce, you must post a bond to cover any potential compliance or enforcement actions under the Clean Air Act with respect to engines certified under this part unless you demonstrate to us in your application for certification that you are able to meet any potential compliance- or enforcement-related obligations, as described in this section. Note that you might also need to post bond under this section to meet your obligations under § 1054.120(f).
(b) The bonding requirements apply if you do not have long-term assets in the United States meeting any of the following thresholds:
(1) A threshold of $3 million applies if you have been a certificate holder in each of the preceding ten years without failing a test conducted by EPA officials or having been found by EPA to be noncompliant under applicable regulations.
(2) A threshold of $6 million applies if you are a secondary engine manufacturer.
(3) A threshold of $10 million applies if you do not qualify for the smaller bond thresholds in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
(c) For the purpose of establishing your level of long-term assets under paragraph (b) of this section, include the values from your most recent balance sheet for buildings, land, and fixed equipment, but subtract depreciation and related long-term liabilities (such as a mortgage). If you have sufficient long-term assets to avoid bond payments under this section, you must identify the location of these assets in your application for certification.
(d) Determine the value of the bond as follows:
(1) Calculate a value based on the per-engine bond values shown in Table 1 to this section and on the projected U.S.-directed production volume from each displacement grouping for the model year. For example, if you have projected U.S.-directed production volumes of 10,000 engines with 180 cc displacement and 10,000 engines with 400 cc displacement in 2013, the calculated bond amount is $750,000. If the calculated value is less than $500,000, the appropriate bond amount is $500,000. If the calculated value exceeds the applicable threshold value specified in paragraph (b) of this section, use the applicable threshold value as the appropriate value of the bond. These values may be adjusted as described in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section. You may generally change your projected U.S.-directed production volume under § 1054.225 during the model year; however, you may not decrease your bond based on new projected U.S.-directed production volumes once you have imported or otherwise introduced
into U.S. commerce your first engine from that model year.
Table 1 to § 1054.690—Per-Engine Bond Values
For engines with
displacement falling in the
following ranges . . .
The per-
engine bond value is . . .
Disp.
225 cc
$25
225 ≤ Disp.
740 cc
50
740 ≤ Disp. ≤ 1,000 cc
100
Disp.
1,000 cc
200
(2) If your estimated or actual U.S.-directed production volume increases beyond the level appropriate for your current bond payment, you must post additional bond to reflect the increased volume within 90 days after you change your estimate or determine the actual production volume. You may not decrease your bond in a given year, but you may calculate a lower bond value in a later year based on the highest actual U.S.-directed production volumes from the preceding three years.
(3) If you sell engines without aftertreatment components under the provisions of § 1054.610, you must increase the per-engine bond values for the current year by 20 percent.
(4) The minimum bond value is $25,000 instead of $500,000 if you are a small-volume engine manufacturer or a small-volume equipment manufacturer that has been a certificate holder in each of the preceding five years without failing a test conducted by EPA officials or having been found by EPA to be noncompliant under applicable regulations.
(e) The threshold identified in paragraph (b) of this section and the bond values identified in paragraph (d) of this section are in 2008 dollars. We will adjust these values for 2020 and later, and every 10 years after that, by considering the current Consumer Price Index values published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics relative to 2008. We will generally round values for thresholds and total bond obligations as follows:
(1) Round calculated values at or below $125,000 to the nearest $5,000.
(2) Round calculated values above $125,000 and at or below $2.25 million to the nearest $50,000.
(3) Round calculated values above $2.25 million to the nearest $500,000.
(f) If you are required to post a bond under this section, you must get the bond from a third-party surety that is cited in the U.S. Department of Treasury Circular 570, “Companies Holding Certificates of Authority as Acceptable Sureties on Federal Bonds and as Acceptable Reinsuring Companies” (
https://www.fiscal.treasury.gov/surety-bonds/circular-570.html
). You must maintain this bond for every year in which you sell certified engines. The surety agent remains responsible for obligations under the bond for two years after the bond is cancelled or expires without being replaced.
(g) If you forfeit some or all of your bond in an enforcement action, you must post any appropriate bond for continuing sale within 90 days after you forfeit the bond amount.
(h) You will forfeit the proceeds of the bond posted under this section if you need to satisfy any United States administrative settlement agreement, administrative final order, or judicial judgment against you arising from your violation of this chapter, or violation of 18 U.S.C. 1001, 42 U.S.C. 7413(c)(2), or other applicable provisions of the Clean Air Act.
(i) If you are required to post a bond under this section, you must note that in your application for certification as described in § 1054.205. Your certification is conditioned on your compliance with this section. Your certificate is automatically suspended if you fail to comply with the requirements of this section. This suspension applies with respect to all engines in your possession as well as all engines being imported or otherwise introduced into U.S. commerce. For example, if you maintain a bond sufficient to cover 500 engines, you may introduce into U.S. commerce only 500 engines under your certificate; your certificate would be automatically suspended for any additional engines. Introducing such additional engines into U.S. commerce would violate 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(1). For importation, U.S. Customs may deny entry of engines lacking the necessary bond, whether there is no bond or the value of the bond is not sufficient for the appropriate production volumes. We may also revoke your certificate.
(j) The following provisions apply if you import engines for resale when those engines have been certified by someone else (or equipment containing such engines):
(1) You and the certificate holder are each responsible for compliance with the requirements of this part and the Clean Air Act. For example, we may require you to comply with the warranty requirements in § 1054.120.
(2) You do not need to post bond if you or the certificate holder complies with the bond requirements of this section. You also do not need to post bond if the certificate holder complies with the asset requirements of this section and the repair-network provisions of § 1054.120(f)(4).
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 74 FR 8426, Feb. 24, 2009; 75 FR 23025, Apr. 30, 2010; 80 FR 9114, Feb. 19, 2015; 86 FR 34522, June 29, 2021]

# Subpart H—Averaging, Banking, and Trading for Certification
§ 1054.701
General provisions.
(a) You may average, bank, and trade (ABT) emission credits for purposes of certification as described in this subpart to show compliance with the standards of this part. This applies for engines with respect to exhaust emissions and for equipment with respect to evaporative emissions. Participation in this program is voluntary.
(b) The definitions of subpart I of this part apply to this subpart. The following definitions also apply:
(1)
Actual emission credits
means emission credits you have generated that we have verified by reviewing your final report.
(2)
Averaging set
means a set of engines (or equipment) in which emission credits may be exchanged only with other engines (or equipment) in the same averaging set.
(3)
Broker
means any entity that facilitates a trade of emission credits between a buyer and seller.
(4)
Buyer
means the entity that receives emission credits as a result of a trade.
(5)
Family
means engine family for exhaust credits or emission family for evaporative credits.
(6)
Reserved emission credits
means emission credits you have generated that we have not yet verified by reviewing your final report.
(7)
Seller
means the entity that provides emission credits during a trade.
(8)
Standard
means the emission standard that applies under subpart B of this part for engines or fuel-system components not participating in the ABT program of this subpart.
(9)
Trade
means to exchange emission credits, either as a buyer or seller.
(c) The use of emission credits is limited to averaging sets, as follows:
(1) You may not average or exchange exhaust credits with evaporative credits, or vice versa.
(2) Handheld engines and nonhandheld engines are in separate averaging sets with respect to exhaust emissions except as specified in § 1054.740(e). You may use emission credits generated with Phase 2 engines for Phase 3 handheld engines only if you can demonstrate that those credits were generated by handheld engines, except as specified in § 1054.740(e). Similarly, you may use emission credits generated with Phase 2 engines for Phase 3 nonhandheld engines only if you can demonstrate that those credits were generated by nonhandheld engines, subject to the provisions of § 1054.740.
(3) Equipment using handheld engines and equipment using nonhandheld engines are in separate averaging sets with respect to evaporative emissions. You may not average or exchange evaporative credits between either of these averaging sets.
(4) For purposes of calculating emission credits under this subpart, engines with displacement at or below 80 cc are presumed to be handheld engines. You may treat these as nonhandheld engines for calculating exhaust or evaporative emission credits only for those engines you can demonstrate will be installed in nonhandheld equipment. For example, if 50 percent of engines in a family will be used in nonhandheld equipment, you may calculate the emission credits for 50 percent of the engines to be nonhandheld credits. Use the specified calculation methods for handheld engines to quantify positive
or negative exhaust emission credits for all engines at or below 80 cc.
(d) You may not generate evaporative credits based on permeation measurements from metal fuel tanks.
(e) You may not use emission credits generated under this subpart to offset any emissions that exceed an FEL or standard. This applies for all testing, including certification testing, in-use testing, selective enforcement audits, and other production-line testing. However, if exhaust emissions from an engine exceed an exhaust FEL or standard (for example, during a selective enforcement audit), you may use emission credits to recertify the family with a higher FEL that applies only to future production.
(f) Emission credits may be used in the model year they are generated (averaging) and in future model years (banking). Emission credits may not be used for past model years.
(g) You may increase or decrease an exhaust FEL during the model year by amending your application for certification under § 1054.225. See 40 CFR 1060.225 for provisions related to changing an FEL for fuel tank permeation.
(h) Engine and equipment manufacturers certifying with respect to evaporative emissions may use emission credits to demonstrate compliance under this subpart. Component manufacturers may establish FELs for their certified products, but they may not generate or use emission credits under this subpart.
(i) As described in § 1054.730, compliance with the requirements of this subpart is determined at the end of the model year based on actual U.S.-directed production volumes. Do not include any of the following engines or equipment to calculate emission credits:
(1) Engines or equipment with a permanent exemption under subpart G of this part or under 40 CFR part 1068.
(2) Engines or equipment intended for export.
(3) Engines or equipment that are subject to state emission standards for that model year. However, this restriction does not apply if we determine that the state standards and requirements are equivalent to those of this part and that products sold in such a state will not generate credits under the state program. For example, you may not include engines or equipment certified for California if California has more stringent emission standards for these products or if your products generate or use emission credits under the California program.
(4) Engines or equipment not subject to the requirements of this part, such as those excluded under § 1054.5.
(5) Any other engines or equipment where we indicate elsewhere in this part 1054 that they are not to be included in the calculations of this subpart.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34523, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.705
How do I generate and calculate exhaust emission credits?
The provisions of this section apply for calculating exhaust emission credits. You may generate exhaust emission credits only if you are a certifying engine manufacturer.
(a) For each participating family, calculate positive or negative emission credits relative to the otherwise applicable emission standard. Calculate positive emission credits for a family that has an FEL below the standard. Calculate negative emission credits for a family that has an FEL above the standard. Sum your positive and negative credits for the model year before rounding. Round the sum of emission credits to the nearest kilogram (kg) using consistent units throughout the following equation:
Emission credits (kg) = (STD − FEL) × (Volume) × (Power) × (UL) × (LF) × (10
−3
)
Where:
STD = the emission standard, in g/kW-hr.
FEL = the family emission limit for the family, in g/kW-hr.
Volume = the number of engines eligible to participate in the averaging, banking, and trading program within the given family during the model year, as described in § 1054.701(i).
Power = the maximum modal power of the emission-data engine as calculated from the applicable test procedure described in subpart F of this part, in kilowatts.
UL = the useful life for the given family, in hours.
LF = load factor. Use 0.47 for nonhandheld engines and 0.85 for handheld engines. We
may specify a different load factor if we approve the use of special test procedures for a family under 40 CFR 1065.10(c)(2), consistent with good engineering judgment.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1054.706
How do I generate and calculate evaporative emission credits?
The provisions of this section apply for calculating evaporative emission credits related to fuel tank permeation. You may generate credits only if you are a certifying equipment manufacturer. This may include engine manufacturers that make engines with complete fuel systems as described in § 1054.2.
(a) For each participating family, calculate positive or negative emission credits relative to the otherwise applicable emission standard. Calculate positive emission credits for a family that has an FEL below the standard. Calculate negative emission credits for a family that has an FEL above the standard. Sum your positive and negative credits for the model year before rounding. Round the sum of emission credits to the nearest kilogram (kg) using consistent units throughout the following equation:
Emission credits (kg) = (STD−FEL) × (Total Area) × (UL) × (AF) × (365) × (10
−3
)
Where:
STD = the emission standard, in g/m
2
/day.
FEL = the family emission limit for the family, in g/m
2
/day, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
Total Area = The combined internal surface area of all fuel tanks in the family, taking production volume into account, in m
2
.
UL = 5 years, which represents the useful life for the given family.
AF= adjustment factor. Use 1.0 for testing at 28 °C; use 0.60 for testing at 40 °C.
(b) For calculating credits under paragraph (a) of this section, the emission standard and FEL must both be based on test measurements at the same temperature (28 ° or 40 °C). Determine the FEL for calculating emission credits relative to testing at 28 °C as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. Determine the FEL for calculating emission credits relative to testing at 40 °C as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(1) To use an FEL below 5.0 g/m
2
/day, it must be based on emission measurements.
(2) The provisions of this paragraph (b)(2) apply for all emission families with FELs at or above 5.0 g/m
2
/day. To calculate emission credits for such emission families, you must choose from one of the following options and apply it to all your emission families with FELs at or above 5.0 g/m
2
/day:
(i) Option 1: Establish all your FELs based on emission measurements. This may include measurements from a certifying fuel tank manufacturer.
(ii) Option 2: Use an assigned FEL of 10.4 g/m
2
/day. This would apply without regard to whether any of these emission families have measured emission levels below 10.4 g/m
2
/day. If any of your fuel tanks were otherwise certified (by you or the fuel tank manufacturer) with an FEL at or above 5.0 g/m
2
/day, the assigned FEL of 10.4 g/m
2
/day applies only for emission credit calculations.
(3) Determine the FEL for calculating emission credits relative to testing at 40 °C as described in paragraph (b)(1) and (2) of this section, but use 8.3 g/m
2
/day instead of 5.0 g/m
2
/day and use 17.3 g/m
2
/day instead of 10.4 g/m
2
/day.
§ 1054.710
How do I average emission credits?
(a) Averaging is the exchange of emission credits among your families. You may average emission credits only within the same averaging set.
(b) You may certify one or more families to an FEL above the emission standard, subject to the FEL caps and other provisions in subpart B of this part, if you show in your application for certification that your projected balance of all emission-credit transactions in that model year is greater than or equal to zero.
(c) If you certify a family to an FEL that exceeds the otherwise applicable standard, you must obtain enough emission credits to offset the family's deficit by the due date for the final report required in § 1054.730. The emission credits used to address the deficit may come from your other families that generate emission credits in the same
model year, from emission credits you have banked from previous model years, or from emission credits generated in the same or previous model years that you obtained through trading.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34523, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.715
How do I bank emission credits?
(a) Banking is the retention of emission credits by the manufacturer generating the emission credits for use in future model years for averaging or trading. You may use banked emission credits only within the averaging set in which they were generated, except as described in this subpart.
(b) You may designate any emission credits you plan to bank in the reports you submit under § 1054.730 as reserved credits. During the model year and before the due date for the final report, you may designate your reserved emission credits for averaging or trading.
(c) Reserved credits become actual emission credits when you submit your final report. However, we may revoke these emission credits if we are unable to verify them after reviewing your reports or auditing your records.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34523, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.720
How do I trade emission credits?
(a) Trading is the exchange of emission credits between manufacturers. You may use traded emission credits for averaging, banking, or further trading transactions. Traded emission credits may be used only within the averaging set in which they were generated, except as described in this subpart.
(b) You may trade actual emission credits as described in this subpart. You may also trade reserved emission credits, but we may revoke these emission credits based on our review of your records or reports or those of the company with which you traded emission credits. You may trade banked credits within an averaging set to any certifying engine or equipment manufacturer.
(c) If a negative emission credit balance results from a transaction, both the buyer and seller are liable, except in cases we deem to involve fraud. See § 1054.255(e) for cases involving fraud. We may void the certificates of all families participating in a trade that results in a manufacturer having a negative balance of emission credits. See § 1054.745.
§ 1054.725
What must I include in my application for certification?
(a) You must declare in your application for certification your intent to use the provisions of this subpart for each family that will be certified using the ABT program. You must also declare the FELs you select for the family for each pollutant for which you are using the ABT program. Your FELs must comply with the specifications of subpart B of this part, including the FEL caps. FELs must be expressed to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard.
(b) Include the following in your application for certification:
(1) A statement that, to the best of your belief, you will not have a negative balance of emission credits for any averaging set when all emission credits are calculated at the end of the year.
(2) Detailed calculations of projected emission credits (positive or negative) based on projected production volumes. We may require you to include similar calculations from your other engine families to demonstrate that you will be able to avoid negative credit balances for the model year. If you project negative emission credits for a family, state the source of positive emission credits you expect to use to offset the negative emission credits.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34523, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.730
What ABT reports must I send to EPA?
(a) If any of your families are certified using the ABT provisions of this subpart, you must send an end-of-year report within 90 days after the end of the model year and a final report within 270 days after the end of the model year. We may waive the requirement to send the end-of-year report as long as you send the final report on time.
(b) Your end-of-year and final reports must include the following information
for each family participating in the ABT program:
(1) Family designation and averaging set.
(2) The emission standards that would otherwise apply to the family.
(3) The FEL for each pollutant. If you change the FEL after the start of production, identify the date that you started using the new FEL and/or give the engine identification number for the first engine covered by the new FEL. In this case, identify each applicable FEL and calculate the positive or negative emission credits as specified in § 1054.225.
(4) The projected and actual U.S.-directed production volumes for the model year as described in § 1054.701(i). For fuel tanks, state the production volume in terms of surface area and production volume for each fuel tank configuration and state the total surface area for the emission family. If you changed an FEL during the model year, identify the actual U.S.-directed production volume associated with each FEL.
(5) The maximum modal power of the emission-data engine or the appropriate internal surface area of the fuel tank.
(6) Useful life.
(7) Calculated positive or negative emission credits for the whole family. Identify any emission credits that you traded, as described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
(c) Your end-of-year and final reports must include the following additional information:
(1) Show that your net balance of emission credits from all your participating families in each averaging set in the applicable model year is not negative.
(2) State whether you will retain any emission credits for banking.
(3) State that the report's contents are accurate.
(d) If you trade emission credits, you must send us a report within 90 days after the transaction, as follows:
(1) As the seller, you must include the following information in your report:
(i) The corporate names of the buyer and any brokers.
(ii) A copy of any contracts related to the trade.
(iii) The averaging set corresponding to the families that generated emission credits for the trade, including the number of emission credits from each averaging set.
(2) As the buyer, you must include the following information in your report:
(i) The corporate names of the seller and any brokers.
(ii) A copy of any contracts related to the trade.
(iii) How you intend to use the emission credits, including the number of emission credits you intend to apply for each averaging set.
(e) Send your reports electronically to the Designated Compliance Officer using an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification for a waiver.
(f) Correct errors in your end-of-year report or final report as follows:
(1) You may correct any errors in your end-of-year report when you prepare the final report as long as you send us the final report by the time it is due.
(2) If you or we determine within 270 days after the end of the model year that errors mistakenly decreased your balance of emission credits, you may correct the errors and recalculate the balance of emission credits. You may not make these corrections for errors that are determined more than 270 days after the end of the model year. If you report a negative balance of emission credits, we may disallow corrections under this paragraph (f)(2).
(3) If you or we determine anytime that errors mistakenly increased your balance of emission credits, you must correct the errors and recalculate the balance of emission credits.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23026, Apr. 30, 2010; 86 FR 34523, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.735
What records must I keep?
(a) You must organize and maintain your records as described in this section.
(b) Keep the records required by this section for at least eight years after the due date for the end-of-year report. You may not use emission credits for
any engines or equipment if you do not keep all the records required under this section. You must therefore keep these records to continue to bank valid credits.
(c) Keep a copy of the reports we require in § 1054.730.
(d) Keep records of the engine identification number for each engine or piece of equipment you produce that generates or uses emission credits under the ABT program. You may identify these numbers as a range. If you change the FEL after the start of production, identify the date you started using each FEL and the range of engine identification numbers associated with each FEL.
(e) We may require you to keep additional records or to send us relevant information not required by this section in accordance with the Clean Air Act.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34523, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.740
What special provisions apply for generating and using emission credits?
(a) You may generate Phase 3 emission credits from 2008 through 2011 model year Class I engines if you voluntarily meet the Phase 3 exhaust emission standards specified in § 1054.105. Divide these into transitional and enduring emission credits as follows:
(1) Transitional credits are based on reducing emissions from Phase 2 levels down to Phase 3 levels. Calculate the value of transitional emission credits as described in § 1054.705, based on setting STD equal to 15.0 g/kW-hr and FEL equal to 10.0 g/kW-hr. You may use these transitional credits only for Class I engines in 2012 through 2014 model years. You may not use these transitional credits for Class II engines.
(2) Enduring credits are based on reducing emissions below Phase 3 levels. Calculate the value of enduring credits as described in § 1054.705, based on setting STD equal to 10.0 g/kW-hr and FEL to the value of the family emission limit you select for the family. You may use these enduring credits for any nonhandheld engines certified to the Phase 3 standards under this part, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(b) You may generate Phase 3 emission credits from 2008 through 2010 model year Class II engines if you voluntarily meet the Phase 3 exhaust emission standards specified in § 1054.105. Divide these into transitional and enduring emission credits as follows:
(1) Transitional credits are based on reducing emissions from Phase 2 levels down to Phase 3 levels. Calculate the value of transitional emission credits as described in § 1054.705, based on setting STD equal to 11.0 g/kW-hr and FEL equal to 8.0 g/kW-hr. You may use these transitional credits only for Class II engines in 2011 through 2013 model years. You may not use these transitional credits for Class I engines.
(2) Enduring credits are based on reducing emissions below Phase 3 levels. Calculate the value of enduring credits as described in § 1054.705, based on setting STD equal to 8.0 g/kW-hr and FEL to the value of the family emission limit you select for the family. You may use these enduring credits for any nonhandheld engines certified to the Phase 3 standards under this part, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) You may not use emission credits generated by nonhandheld engines certified to Phase 2 emission standards to demonstrate compliance with the Phase 3 exhaust emission standards in 2014 and later model years.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) You may use Phase 2 or Phase 3 emission credits from nonhandheld engines to demonstrate compliance with the Phase 3 standards for handheld engines subject to the following restrictions:
(1) The handheld family must be certified in 2008 and all later model years using carryover of emission data from an engine family that was most recently certified with new emission data in 2007 or an earlier model year.
(2) The handheld family's FEL may not increase above the level selected for the 2007 model year in later years unless such an increase is based on emission data from production engines.
(3) Your total production of handheld engines certified under this paragraph
(e) may not exceed 30,000 in any model year.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 86 FR 34523, June 29, 2021]
§ 1054.745
What can happen if I do not comply with the provisions of this subpart?
(a) For each family participating in the ABT program, the certificate of conformity is conditional upon full compliance with the provisions of this subpart during and after the model year. You are responsible to establish to our satisfaction that you fully comply with applicable requirements. We may void the certificate of conformity for a family if you fail to comply with any provisions of this subpart.
(b) You may certify your family to an FEL above an emission standard based on a projection that you will have enough emission credits to offset the deficit for the family. However, we may void the certificate of conformity if you cannot show in your final report that you have enough actual emission credits to offset a deficit for any pollutant in a family.
(c) We may void the certificate of conformity for a family if you fail to keep records, send reports, or give us information we request.
(d) You may ask for a hearing if we void your certificate under this section (see § 1054.820).

# Subpart I—Definitions and Other Reference Information
§ 1054.801
What definitions apply to this part?
The following definitions apply to this part. The definitions apply to all subparts unless we note otherwise. All undefined terms have the meaning the Clean Air Act gives to them. The definitions follow:
Adjustable parameter
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.50.
Aftertreatment
means relating to a catalytic converter, particulate filter, thermal reactor, or any other system, component, or technology mounted downstream of the exhaust valve (or exhaust port) whose design function is to decrease emissions in the engine exhaust before it is exhausted to the environment. Exhaust-gas recirculation (EGR), turbochargers, and oxygen sensors are not aftertreatment.
Alcohol-fueled engine
means an engine that is designed to run using an alcohol fuel. For purposes of this definition, alcohol fuels do not include fuels with a nominal alcohol content below 25 percent by volume.
Amphibious vehicle
means a vehicle with wheels or tracks that is designed primarily for operation on land and secondarily for operation in water.
Applicable emission standard
or
applicable standard
means an emission standard to which an engine (or equipment) is subject. Additionally, if an engine (or equipment) has been or is being certified to another standard or FEL,
applicable emission standard
means the FEL or other standard to which the engine (or equipment) has been or is being certified. This definition does not apply to subpart H of this part.
Auxiliary emission control device
means any element of design that senses temperature, motive speed, engine RPM, transmission gear, or any other parameter for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying, or deactivating the operation of any part of the emission control system.
Brake power
means the usable power output of the engine, not including power required to fuel, lubricate, or heat the engine, circulate coolant to the engine, or to operate aftertreatment devices.
Calibration
means the set of specifications and tolerances specific to a particular design, version, or application of a component or assembly capable of functionally describing its operation over its working range.
Carryover
means relating to certification based on emission data generated from an earlier model year as described in § 1054.235(d).
Certification
means relating to the process of obtaining a certificate of conformity for an emission family that complies with the emission standards and requirements in this part.
Certified emission level
means the highest deteriorated emission level in an emission family for a given pollutant from either transient or steady-state testing.
Class I
means relating to nonhandheld engines with total displacement below 225 cc. See § 1054.101 for special provisions that apply for engines with total displacement at or below 80 cc.
Class II
means relating to nonhandheld engines with total displacement at or above 225 cc.
Class III
means relating to handheld engines with total displacement below 20 cc.
Class IV
means relating to handheld engines with total displacement at or above 20 cc but below 50 cc.
Class V
means relating to handheld engines with total displacement at or above 50 cc.
Clean Air Act
means the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401-7671q.
Cold-weather equipment
is limited to the following types of handheld equipment: chainsaws, cut-off saws, clearing saws, brush cutters with engines at or above 40cc, commercial earth and wood drills, and ice augers. This includes earth augers if they are also marketed as ice augers.
Crankcase emissions
means airborne substances emitted to the atmosphere from any part of the engine crankcase's ventilation or lubrication systems. The crankcase is the housing for the crankshaft and other related internal parts.
Critical emission-related component
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Days
means calendar days unless otherwise specified. For example, when we specify working days we mean calendar days, excluding weekends and U.S. national holidays.
Designated Compliance Officer
means the Director, Gasoline Engine Compliance Center, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2000 Traverwood Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48105;
complianceinfo@epa.gov.
Designated Enforcement Officer
means the Director, Air Enforcement Division (2242A), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20460.
Deteriorated emission level
means the emission level that results from applying the appropriate deterioration factor to the official emission result of the emission-data engine.
Deterioration factor
means the relationship between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point (see §§ 1054.240 and 1054.245), expressed in one of the following ways:
(1) For multiplicative deterioration factors, the ratio of emissions at the end of useful life to emissions at the low-hour test point.
(2) For additive deterioration factors, the difference between emissions at the end of useful life and emissions at the low-hour test point.
Displacement
has the meaning given in § 1054.140.
Dry weight
means the weight of the equipment as sold without fuel, oil, or engine coolant.
Dual-fuel
means relating to an engine designed for operation on two different fuels but not on a continuous mixture of those fuels (see § 1054.601(d)). For purposes of this part, such an engine remains a dual-fuel engine even if it is designed for operation on three or more different fuels.
Emission control system
means any device, system, or element of design that controls or reduces the emissions of regulated pollutants from an engine.
Emission-data engine
means an engine that is tested for certification. This includes engines tested to establish deterioration factors.
Emission-data equipment
means an engine, piece of equipment, or fuel system component that is tested for certification. This includes units tested to establish deterioration factors.
Emission family
has the meaning given in § 1054.230. We may refer to emission families as “engine families” where provisions relate only to exhaust emissions from engines.
Emission-related maintenance
means maintenance that substantially affects emissions or is likely to substantially affect emission deterioration.
Engine
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. This includes complete and partially complete engines.
Engine configuration
means a unique combination of engine hardware and calibration within an emission family. Engines within a single engine configuration differ only with respect to normal production variability or factors unrelated to emissions.
Engine manufacturer
means the manufacturer of the engine. See the definition of “manufacturer” in this section.
Equipment
means any mechanical device commonly known as equipment, including vehicles. If the equipment has an installed engine, the term
equipment
includes the installed engine and fuel system components.
Equipment manufacturer
means a manufacturer of nonroad equipment. All nonroad equipment manufacturing entities under the control of the same person are considered to be a single nonroad equipment manufacturer.
Evaporative
means relating to fuel emissions controlled by 40 CFR part 1060. This generally includes emissions that result from permeation of fuel through the fuel-system materials or from ventilation of the fuel system.
Excluded
means relating to an engine that either:
(1) Has been determined not to be a nonroad engine, as specified in 40 CFR 1068.30; or
(2) Is a nonroad engine that, according to § 1054.5, is not subject to this part 1054.
Exempted
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Exhaust-gas recirculation (EGR)
means a technology that reduces emissions by routing exhaust gases that had been exhausted from the combustion chamber(s) back into the engine to be mixed with incoming air before or during combustion. The use of valve timing to increase the amount of residual exhaust gas in the combustion chamber(s) that is mixed with incoming air before or during combustion is not considered exhaust-gas recirculation for the purposes of this part.
Family emission limit (FEL)
means an emission level declared by the manufacturer to serve in place of an otherwise applicable emission standard under the ABT program in subpart H of this part. The family emission limit must be expressed to the same number of decimal places as the emission standard it replaces. The family emission limit serves as the emission standard for the engine family (exhaust) or emission family (evaporative) with respect to all required testing.
Flexible-fuel
means relating to an engine designed for operation on any mixture of two or more different fuels (see § 1054.601(d)).
Fuel line
means hose or tubing designed to contain liquid fuel (including molded hose or tubing). This does not include any of the following:
(1) Fuel tank vent lines.
(2) Segments of hose or tubing whose external surface is normally exposed to liquid fuel inside the fuel tank.
(3) Hose or tubing designed to return unused fuel from the carburetor to the fuel tank for handheld engines.
(4) Primer bulbs that contain liquid fuel only for priming the engine before starting.
Fuel system
means all components involved in transporting, metering, and mixing the fuel from the fuel tank to the combustion chamber(s), including the fuel tank, fuel tank cap, fuel pump, fuel filters, fuel lines, carburetor or fuel-injection components, and all fuel-system vents.
Fuel type
means a general category of fuels such as gasoline or natural gas. There can be multiple grades within a single fuel type, such as premium gasoline, regular gasoline, or low-level ethanol-gasoline blends.
Good engineering judgment
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. See 40 CFR 1068.5 for the administrative process we use to evaluate good engineering judgment.
Handheld
means relating to equipment that meets any of the following criteria:
(1) It is carried by the operator throughout the performance of its intended function.
(2) It is designed to operate multi-positionally, such as upside down or sideways, to complete its intended function.
(3) It has a combined engine and equipment dry weight under 16.0 kilograms, has no more than two wheels, and at least one of the following attributes is also present:
(i) The operator provides support or carries the equipment throughout the performance of its intended function. Carry means to completely bear the weight of the equipment, including the engine. Support means to hold a piece of equipment in position to prevent it from falling, slipping, or sinking, without carrying it.
(ii) The operator provides support or attitudinal control for the equipment throughout the performance of its intended function. Attitudinal control involves regulating the horizontal or vertical position of the equipment.
(4) It is an auger with a combined engine and equipment dry weight under 22.0 kilograms.
(5) It is used in a recreational application with a combined total vehicle dry weight under 20.0 kilograms.
(6) It is a hand-supported jackhammer or rammer/compactor. This does not include equipment that can remain upright without operator support, such as a plate compactor.
Hydrocarbon (HC)
means the hydrocarbon group on which the emission standards are based for each fuel type, as described in subpart B of this part.
Identification number
means a unique specification (for example, a model number/serial number combination) that allows someone to distinguish a particular engine from other similar engines.
Integrated equipment manufacturer
means an equipment manufacturer that also manufactures the engines for its equipment. Equipment manufacturers that manufacture the engines for some but not all of their equipment are considered to be integrated manufacturers for that equipment using the manufacturer's own engines.
Intermediate-speed equipment
includes all nonhandheld equipment in which the installed engine's governed speed at full load is below 3330 rpm. It may also include nonhandheld equipment in which the installed engine's governed speed at full load is as high as 3400 rpm.
Low-hour
means relating to an engine that is considered to have stabilized emissions and represents the undeteriorated emission level. A low-hour engine typically operates no more than a few hours beyond the minimum stabilization period. However, a low-hour engine could have more hours as long as emissions remain stable. In the absence of other information, a low-hour engine with a useful life of 300 hours or less would generally have operated no more than 15 hours and a low-hour engine with a longer useful life would generally have operated no more than 24 hours.
Manufacture
means the physical and engineering process of designing, constructing, and assembling an engine or piece of equipment.
Manufacturer
has the meaning given in section 216(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7550(1)). In general, this term includes any person who manufactures an engine, vehicle, vessel, or piece of equipment for sale in the United States or otherwise introduces a new nonroad engine or piece of equipment into U.S. commerce. This includes importers who import engines, equipment, or vehicles for resale, but not dealers. All manufacturing entities under the control of the same person are considered to be a single manufacturer.
Marine engine
means a nonroad engine that is installed or intended to be installed on a vessel. There are two kinds of marine engines:
(1) Propulsion marine engine means a marine engine that moves a vessel through the water or directs the vessel's movement.
(2) Auxiliary marine engine means a marine engine not used for propulsion. This includes a portable auxiliary marine engine only if its fueling, cooling, or exhaust system is an integral part of the vessel.
Marine generator engine
means an auxiliary marine engine used primarily to operate an electrical generator or alternator to produce electric power.
Marine vessel
has the meaning given in 1 U.S.C. 3, except that it does not include amphibious vehicles. The definition in 1 U.S.C. 3 very broadly includes every craft capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
Maximum engine power
has the meaning given in § 1054.140.
Maximum test torque
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Model year
has the meaning given in 40 CFR part 1060 for equipment and means one of the following things for engines:
(1) For freshly manufactured engines (see definition of “new nonroad engine,” paragraph (1)), model year means your annual new model production period. This must include January 1 of the calendar year for which the model year is named. It may not begin
before January 2 of the previous calendar year and it must end by December 31 of the named calendar year. For seasonal production periods not including January 1, model year means the calendar year in which the production occurs, unless you choose to certify the applicable emission family with the following model year. For example, if your production period is June 1, 2010 through November 30, 2010, your model year would be 2010 unless you choose to certify the emission family for model year 2011.
(2) For an engine that is converted to a nonroad engine after being placed into service as a stationary engine, or being certified and placed into service as a motor vehicle engine, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced. For a motor vehicle engine that is converted to be a nonroad engine without having been certified, model year means the calendar year in which the engine becomes a new nonroad engine. (See definition of “new nonroad engine,” paragraph (2).)
(3) For a nonroad engine excluded under § 1054.5 that is later converted to operate in an application that is not excluded, model year means the calendar year in which the engine was originally produced (see definition of “new nonroad engine,” paragraph (3)).
(4) For engines that are not freshly manufactured but are installed in new nonroad equipment, model year means the calendar year in which the engine is installed in the new nonroad equipment (see definition of “new nonroad engine,” paragraph (4)).
(5) For imported engines:
(i) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(i) of the definition of “new nonroad engine,”
model year
has the meaning given in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition.
(ii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(ii) of the definition of “new nonroad engine,”
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine is assembled in its final certified configuration.
(iii) For imported engines described in paragraph (5)(iii) of the definition of “new nonroad engine,”
model year
means the calendar year in which the engine is assembled in its imported configuration, unless specified otherwise in this part or in 40 CFR part 1068.
Motor vehicle
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 85.1703(a).
New nonroad engine
means any of the following things:
(1) A freshly manufactured nonroad engine for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. This kind of engine might commonly be thought of as “brand new.” In the case of this paragraph (1), the engine is new from the time it is produced until the ultimate purchaser receives the title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(2) An engine originally manufactured as a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine that is later used or intended to be used in a piece of nonroad equipment. In this case, the engine is no longer a motor vehicle or stationary engine and becomes a “new nonroad engine.” The engine is no longer new when it is placed into nonroad service. This paragraph (2) applies if a motor vehicle engine or a stationary engine is installed in nonroad equipment, or if a motor vehicle or a piece of stationary equipment is modified (or moved) to become nonroad equipment.
(3) A nonroad engine that has been previously placed into service in an application we exclude under § 1054.5, when that engine is installed in a piece of equipment that is covered by this part. The engine is no longer new when it is placed into nonroad service covered by this part. For example, this paragraph (3) would apply to a marine-propulsion engine that is no longer used in a marine vessel but is instead installed in a piece of nonroad equipment subject to the provisions of this part.
(4) An engine not covered by paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition that is intended to be installed in new nonroad equipment. This generally includes installation of used engines in new equipment. The engine is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the equipment or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(5) An imported nonroad engine, subject to the following provisions:
(i) An imported nonroad engine covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part that meets the criteria of one or more of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this definition, where the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate, is new as defined by paragraphs (1) through (4).
(ii) An imported engine that will be covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part, where someone other than the original engine manufacturer holds the certificate (such as when the engine is modified after its initial assembly), is a new nonroad engine when it is imported. It is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives a title for the engine or it is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(iii) An imported nonroad engine that is not covered by a certificate of conformity issued under this part at the time of importation is new. This paragraph (5)(iii) addresses uncertified engines and equipment initially placed into service that someone seeks to import into the United States. Importation of this kind of engine (or equipment containing such an engine) is generally prohibited by 40 CFR part 1068. However, the importation of such an engine is not prohibited if the engine has a date of manufacture before January 1, 1997, since it is not subject to standards.
New nonroad equipment
means either of the following things:
(1) A nonroad piece of equipment for which the ultimate purchaser has never received the equitable or legal title. The product is no longer new when the ultimate purchaser receives this title or the product is placed into service, whichever comes first.
(2) A nonroad piece of equipment with an engine that becomes new while installed in the equipment. For example, a complete piece of equipment that was imported without being covered by a certificate of conformity would be new nonroad equipment because the engine would be considered new at the time of importation.
Noncompliant engine or noncompliant equipment
means an engine or equipment that was originally covered by a certificate of conformity but is not in the certified configuration or otherwise does not comply with the conditions of the certificate.
Nonconforming engine or nonconforming equipment
means an engine or equipment not covered by a certificate of conformity that would otherwise be subject to emission standards.
Nonhandheld
means relating to an engine (or equipment) subject to the standards of this part that is not a handheld engine (or equipment).
Nonintegrated equipment manufacturer
means an equipment manufacturer that is not an integrated equipment manufacturer. Equipment manufacturers that manufacture the engines for some but not all of their equipment are considered to be nonintegrated manufacturers for that equipment using a different engine manufacturer's engines.
Nonmethane hydrocarbon
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This generally means the difference between the emitted mass of total hydrocarbon and the emitted mass of methane.
Nonroad
means relating to nonroad engines or equipment that includes nonroad engines.
Nonroad engine
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general, this means all internal-combustion engines except motor vehicle engines, stationary engines, engines used solely for competition, or engines used in aircraft.
Official emission result
means the measured emission rate for an emission-data engine on a given duty cycle before the application of any deterioration factor.
Overhead valve
means relating to a four-stroke spark-ignition engine in which the intake and exhaust valves are located above the combustion chamber within the cylinder head. Such engines are sometimes referred to as “valve-in-head” engines.
Owners manual
means a document or collection of documents prepared by the engine manufacturer for the owner or operator to describe appropriate engine maintenance, applicable warranties, and any other information related to operating or keeping the engine. The owners manual is typically provided to the ultimate purchaser at the time of sale. The owners manual may be in paper or electronic format.
Oxides of nitrogen
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Percent
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Permeation emissions
means fuel that escapes from the fuel system by diffusing through the walls of fuel-system components.
Phase 1
means relating to the Phase 1 emission standards described in appendix I of this part.
Phase 2
means relating to the Phase 2 emission standards described in appendix I of this part.
Phase 3
means relating to the Phase 3 exhaust emission standards described in § 1054.105.
Placed into service
means put into initial use for its intended purpose. Engines and equipment do not qualify as being “placed into service” based on incidental use by a manufacturer or dealer.
Rated-speed equipment
includes all nonhandheld equipment in which the installed engine's governed speed at full load is at or above 3400 rpm. It may also include nonhandheld equipment in which the installed engine's governed speed at full load is as low as 3330 rpm.
Recreational application
means an application in which a vehicle is ridden primarily for pleasure. Note that engines used in reduced-scale model vehicles that cannot be ridden (such as model airplanes) are excluded from this part under § 1054.5.
Relating
to as used in this section means relating to something in a specific, direct manner. This expression is used in this section only to define terms as adjectives and not to broaden the meaning of the terms.
Revoke
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general this means to terminate the certificate or an exemption for an engine family.
Round
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001.
Running loss emissions
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1060.801.
Scheduled maintenance
means adjusting, repairing, removing, disassembling, cleaning, or replacing components or systems periodically to keep a part or system from failing, malfunctioning, or wearing prematurely. It also may mean actions you expect are necessary to correct an overt indication of failure or malfunction for which periodic maintenance is not appropriate.
Side valve
means relating to a four-stroke spark-ignition engine in which the intake and exhaust valves are located to the side of the cylinder, not within the cylinder head. Such engines are sometimes referred to as “L-head” engines.
Small-volume emission family
means one of the following:
(1) For requirements related to exhaust emissions for nonhandheld engines and to exhaust and evaporative emissions for handheld engines,
small-volume emission family
means any emission family whose U.S.-directed production volume in a given model year is projected at the time of certification to be no more than 5,000 engines or pieces of equipment.
(2) For requirements related to evaporative emissions for nonhandheld equipment,
small-volume emission family
means any equipment manufacturer's U.S.-directed production volume for identical fuel tank is projected at the time of certification to be no more than 5,000 units. Tanks are generally considered identical if they are produced under a single part number to conform to a single design or blueprint. Tanks should be considered identical if they differ only with respect to production variability, post-production changes (such as different fittings or grommets), supplier, color, or other extraneous design variables.
Small-volume engine manufacturer
means one of the following:
(1) For handheld engines, an engine manufacturer that had U.S.-directed production volume of handheld engines of no more than 25,000 handheld engines in any calendar year. For manufacturers owned by a parent company, this production limit applies to the production of the parent company and all its subsidiaries.
(2) For nonhandheld engines, an engine manufacturer that had U.S.-directed production volume of no more than 10,000 nonhandheld engines in any calendar year. For manufacturers owned by a parent company, this production limit applies to the production of the parent company and all its subsidiaries.
(3) An engine manufacturer that we designate to be a small-volume engine manufacturer under § 1054.635.
Small-volume equipment manufacturer
means one of the following:
(1) For handheld equipment, an equipment manufacturer that had a U.S.-directed production volume of no more than 25,000 pieces of handheld equipment in any calendar year. For manufacturers owned by a parent company, this production limit applies to the production of the parent company and all its subsidiaries.
(2) For nonhandheld equipment, an equipment manufacturer with annual U.S.-directed production volumes of no more than 5,000 pieces of nonhandheld equipment in any calendar year. For manufacturers owned by a parent company, this production limit applies to the production of the parent company and all its subsidiaries.
(3) An equipment manufacturer that we designate to be a small-volume equipment manufacturer under § 1054.635.
Snowthrower engine
means an engine used exclusively to power snowthrowers.
Spark-ignition
means relating to a gasoline-fueled engine or any other type of engine with a spark plug (or other sparking device) and with operating characteristics significantly similar to the theoretical Otto combustion cycle. Spark-ignition engines usually use a throttle to regulate intake air flow to control power during normal operation.
Steady-state
means relating to emission tests in which engine speed and load are held at a finite set of essentially constant values.
Structurally integrated nylon fuel tank
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1060.801.
Subchapter U
means the portion of the Code of Federal Regulations including 40 CFR parts 1000 through 1299.
Suspend
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general this means to temporarily discontinue the certificate or an exemption for an engine family.
Test engine
means an engine in a test sample.
Test sample
means the collection of engines selected from the population of an emission family for emission testing. This may include testing for certification, production-line testing, or in-use testing.
Tethered gas cap
means a gas cap that is loosely but permanently connected to the fuel tank.
Thermal reactor
means a hot surface in the engine exhaust system that has the effect of significantly lowering emissions of one or more regulated pollutants. Hot surfaces that have an inconsequential effect on emissions are not thermal reactors.
Total hydrocarbon
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This generally means the combined mass of organic compounds measured by the specified procedure for measuring total hydrocarbon, expressed as an atomic hydrocarbon with an atomic hydrogen-to-carbon ratio of 1.85:1.
Total hydrocarbon equivalent
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1065.1001. This generally means the sum of the carbon mass contributions of non-oxygenated hydrocarbon, alcohols and aldehydes, or other organic compounds that are measured separately as contained in a gas sample, expressed as exhaust hydrocarbon from petroleum-fueled engines. The atomic hydrogen-to-carbon ratio of the equivalent hydrocarbon is 1.85:1.
Ultimate purchaser
means, with respect to any new nonroad equipment or new nonroad engine, the first person who in good faith purchases such new nonroad equipment or new nonroad engine for purposes other than resale.
United States
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30.
Upcoming model year
for an emission family means the model year after the one currently in production.
U.S.-directed production volume
means the number of engine or equipment units, subject to the requirements of this part, produced by a manufacturer for which the manufacturer has a reasonable assurance that sale was or will be made to ultimate purchasers in the United States.
Useful life
means the period during which the engine and equipment are designed to properly function in terms of power output and intended function, without being remanufactured, specified as a number of hours of operation or calendar years, whichever comes
first. It is the period during which a nonroad engine is required to comply with all applicable emission standards. See, for example, §§ 1054.107, 1054.110, and 1054.112. If an engine has no hour meter, the specified number of hours does not limit the period during which an in-use engine is required to comply with emission standards unless the degree of service accumulation can be verified separately.
Variable-speed engine
means an engine that is not a constant-speed engine.
Vessel
means marine vessel.
Void
has the meaning given in 40 CFR 1068.30. In general this means to invalidate a certificate or an exemption both retroactively and prospectively.
Volatile liquid fuel
means any fuel other than diesel or biodiesel that is a liquid at atmospheric pressure and has a Reid Vapor Pressure higher than 2.0 pounds per square inch.
We (us, our)
means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and any authorized representatives.
Wide-open throttle
means maximum throttle opening.
Wintertime engine
means an engine used exclusively to power equipment that is used only in wintertime, such as snowthrowers and ice augers.
[73 FR 59259, Oct. 8, 2008, as amended at 75 FR 23026, Apr. 30, 2010; 86 FR 34523, June 29, 2021; 88 FR 4668, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1054.805
What symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations does this part use?
The following symbols, acronyms, and abbreviations apply to this part:
ABT Averaging, banking, and trading.
cc cubic centimeters.
CFR Code of Federal Regulations.
CH
4
methane.
CO carbon monoxide.
CO
2
carbon dioxide.
EPA Environmental Protection Agency.
FEL Family Emission Limit.
g gram.
HC hydrocarbon.
hr hour.
kPa kilopascals.
kW kilowatts.
N
2
O nitrous oxide.
NMHC nonmethane hydrocarbons.
NO
X
oxides of nitrogen (NO and NO
2
).
psig pounds per square inch of gauge pressure.
RPM revolutions per minute.
THC total hydrocarbon.
THCE total hydrocarbon equivalent.
U.S.C. United States Code.
§ 1054.815
What provisions apply to confidential information?
The provisions of 40 CFR 1068.10 and 1068.11 apply for information you submit under this part.
[88 FR 4668, Jan. 24, 2023]
§ 1054.820
How do I request a hearing?
(a) You may request a hearing under certain circumstances as described elsewhere in this part. To do this, you must file a written request, including a description of your objection and any supporting data, within 30 days after we make a decision.
(b) For a hearing you request under the provisions of this part, we will approve your request if we find that your request raises a substantial factual issue.
(c) If we agree to hold a hearing, we will use the procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G.
§ 1054.825
What reporting and recordkeeping requirements apply under this part?
(a) This part includes various requirements to submit and record data or other information. Unless we specify otherwise, store required records in any format and on any media and keep them readily available for eight years after you send an associated application for certification, or eight years after you generate the data if they do not support an application for certification. We may request these records at any time. You must promptly give us organized, written records in English if we ask for them. This requirement to give us records applies whether or not you rely on someone else to keep records on your behalf. We may require you to submit written records in an electronic format.
(b) The regulations in § 1054.255 and 40 CFR 1068.25 and 1068.101 describe your obligation to report truthful and complete information. This includes information not related to certification. Failing to properly report information
and keep the records we specify violates 40 CFR 1068.101(a)(2), which may involve civil or criminal penalties.
(c) Send all reports and requests for approval to the Designated Compliance Officer (see § 1054.801).
(d) Any written information we require you to send to or receive from another company is deemed to be a required record under this section. Such records are also deemed to be submissions to EPA. We may require you to send us these records.
(e) Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.,), the Office of Management and Budget approves the reporting and recordkeeping specified in the applicable regulations in this chapter. The following items illustrate the kind of reporting and recordkeeping we require for engines and equipment regulated under this part:
(1) We specify the following requirements related to engine and equipment certification in this part:
(i) In § 1054.20 we require equipment manufacturers to label their equipment if they are relying on component certification.
(ii) In § 1054.135 we require engine manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels sent to equipment manufacturers.
(iii) In § 1054.145 we include various reporting and recordkeeping requirements related to interim provisions.
(iv) In subpart C of this part we identify a wide range of information required to certify engines.
(v) In §§ 1054.345 and 1054.350 we specify certain records related to production-line testing.
(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) In subpart G of this part we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various special compliance provisions.
(viii) In §§ 1054.725, 1054.730, and 1054.735 we specify certain records related to averaging, banking, and trading.
(2) We specify the following requirements related to component and equipment certification in 40 CFR part 1060:
(i) In 40 CFR 1060.20 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.
(ii) In 40 CFR part 1060, subpart C, we identify a wide range of information required to certify products.
(iii) In 40 CFR 1060.301 we require manufacturers to keep records related to evaluation of production samples for verifying that the products are as specified in the certificate of conformity.
(iv) In 40 CFR 1060.310 we require manufacturers to make components, engines, or equipment available for our testing if we make such a request.
(v) In 40 CFR 1060.505 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.
(3) We specify the following requirements related to testing in 40 CFR part 1065:
(i) In 40 CFR 1065.2 we give an overview of principles for reporting information.
(ii) In 40 CFR 1065.10 and 1065.12 we specify information needs for establishing various changes to published test procedures.
(iii) In 40 CFR 1065.25 we establish basic guidelines for storing test information.
(iv) In 40 CFR 1065.695 we identify the specific information and data items to record when measuring emissions.
(4) We specify the following requirements related to the general compliance provisions in 40 CFR part 1068:
(i) In 40 CFR 1068.5 we establish a process for evaluating good engineering judgment related to testing and certification.
(ii) In 40 CFR 1068.25 we describe general provisions related to sending and keeping information.
(iii) In 40 CFR 1068.27 we require manufacturers to make engines available for our testing or inspection if we make such a request.
(iv) In 40 CFR 1068.105 we require equipment manufacturers to keep certain records related to duplicate labels from engine manufacturers.
(v) In 40 CFR 1068.120 we specify recordkeeping related to rebuilding engines.
(vi) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to various exemptions.
(vii) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart D, we identify several reporting and recordkeeping items for making demonstrations and getting approval related to importing engines.
(viii) In 40 CFR 1068.450 and 1068.455 we specify certain records related to testing production-line engines in a selective enforcement audit.
(ix) In 40 CFR 1068.501 we specify certain records related to investigating and reporting emission-related defects.
(x) In 40 CFR 1068.525 and 1068.530 we specify certain records related to recalling nonconforming engines.
(xi) In 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G, we specify certain records for requesting a hearing.
[86 FR 34525, June 29, 2021]
Pt. 1054, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1054—Summary of Previous Emission Standards
The following standards, which EPA originally adopted under 40 CFR part 90, apply to nonroad spark-ignition engines produced before the model years specified in § 1054.1:
(a)
Handheld engines.
(1) Phase 1 standards apply for handheld engines as summarized in the following table starting with model year 1997:
Table 1 to Appendix I—Phase 1 Emission Standards for Handheld Engines
[g/kW-hr]
a
Engine displacement class
HC
NO
X
CO
Class III
295
5.36
805
Class IV
241
5.36
805
Class V
161
5.36
603
a
Phase 1 standards are based on testing with new engines only.
(2) Phase 2 standards apply for handheld engines as summarized in the following table starting with model year 2002 for Class III and Class IV, and starting in model year 2004 for Class V:
Table 2 to Appendix I—Phase 2 Emission Standards for Handheld Engines
[g/kW-hr]
Engine displacement class
HC + NO
X
CO
Class III
a
50
805
Class IV
b
50
805
Class V
c
72
603
a
Class III engines had alternate HC+NO
X
standards of 238, 175, and 113 for model years 2002, 2003, and 2004, respectively.
b
Class IV engines had alternate HC+NO
X
standards of 196, 148, and 99 for model years 2002, 2003, and 2004, respectively.
c
Class V engines had alternate HC+NO
X
standards of 143, 119, and 96 for model years 2004, 2005, and 2006, respectively.
(b) Nonhandheld engines. (1) Phase 1 standards apply for nonhandheld engines as summarized in the following table starting with model year 1997:
Table 3 to Appendix I—Phase 1 Emission Standards for Nonhandheld Engines
[g/kW-hr]
a
Engine displacement class
HC + NO
X
CO
Class I
16.1
519
Class II
13.4
519
a
Phase 1 standards are based on testing with new engines only.
(2) Phase 2 standards apply for nonhandheld engines as summarized in the following table starting with model year 2001 (except as noted for Class I engines):
Table 4 to Appendix I—Phase 2 Emission Standards for Nonhandheld Engines
[g/kW-hr]
Engine displacement class
HC + NO
X
NMHC + NO
X
CO
Class I-A
50
610
Class I-B
40
37
610
Class I
a
16.1
14.8
610
Class II
b
12.1
11.3
610
a
The Phase 2 standards for Class I engines apply for new engines produced starting August 1, 2007, and for any engines belonging to an engine model whose original production date was on or after August 1, 2003.
b
Class II engines had alternate HC + NO
X
standards of 18.0, 16.6, 15.0, 13.6 and alternate NMHC + NO
X
standards of 16.7, 15.3, 14.0, 12.7 for model years 2001 through 2004, respectively.
(3) Note that engines subject to Phase 1 standards were not subject to useful life, deterioration factor, production-line testing, or in-use testing provisions. In addition, engines subject to Phase 1 standards and engines subject to Phase 2 standards were both not subject to the following provisions:
(i) Evaporative emission standards as specified in §§ 1054.110 and 1054.112.
(ii) Altitude adjustments as specified in § 1054.115(c).
(iii) Warranty assurance provisions as specified in § 1054.120(f).
(iv) Emission-related installation instructions as specified in § 1054.130.
(v) Bonding requirements as specified in § 1054.690.
[86 FR 34526, June 29, 2021. Redesignated and amended at 88 FR 4668, Jan. 24, 2023]
Pt. 1054, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1054—Duty Cycles for Laboratory Testing
(a) Test handheld engines with the following steady-state duty cycle:
Table 1 to Appendix B—Duty Cycle for Handheld Engines
G3 mode No.
Engine speed
a
Torque
(percent)
b
Weighting factors
1
Rated speed
100
0.85
2
Warm idle
0
0.15
a
Test engines at the specified speeds as described in § 1054.505.
b
Test engines at 100 percent torque by setting operator demand to maximum. Control torque during idle at its warm idle speed as described in 40 CFR 1065.510.
(b) Test nonhandheld engines with one of the following steady-state duty cycles:
(1) The following duty cycle applies for engines designed to idle:
Table 2 to Appendix B—Duty Cycle for Nonhandheld Engines With Idle
G2 Mode
No.
a
Torque
(percent)
b
Weighting factors
1
100
0.09
2
75
0.20
3
50
0.29
4
25
0.30
5
10
0.07
6
0
0.05
a
Control engine speed as described in § 1054.505. Control engine speed for Mode 6 as described in § 1054.505(c) for idle operation.
b
The percent torque is relative to the value established for full-load torque, as described in § 1054.505.
(2) The following duty cycle applies for engines that are not designed to idle:
Table 3 to Appendix B—Duty Cycle for Nonhandheld Engines Without Idle
Mode No.
a
Torque
(percent)
b
Weighting factors
1
100
0.09
2
75
0.21
3
50
0.31
4
25
0.32
5
10
0.07
a
Control engine speed as described in § 1054.505.
b
The percent torque is relative to the value established for full-load torque, as described in § 1054.505.
[88 FR 4668, Jan. 24, 2023]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of July 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
40 CFR (7-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov.
2020
40 CFR
85 FR
Page
Chapter I
1042.145 (k) through (o) added
62231
1042.505 (b) introductory text and (2) revised
62232
1042.660 (a) amended
78468
1042.901 Amended
62232, 78468
1043.1 (f) amended
78468
1043.60 (d) and (e) amended
78468
1043.70 (c) and (d) amended
78468
1043.80 (b)(5) amended
78468
2021
40 CFR
86 FR
Page
Chapter I
1027 Heading revised; eff. 7-29-21
34373
1027.101 (a) revised; (b) removed; eff. 7-29-21
34373
1027.105 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34373
1027.110 (a) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34375
1027.125 (e) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34375
1027.130 (a) and (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34375
1027.135 (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34375
1027.155 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34375
1030 Added
2171
1030.23 Correction: Amended
52416
1033.150 (a), (d), (h) through (j), (l), and (m) removed; (e) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34375
1033.255 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34375
1033.601 (c)(4) and (5) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34376
1033.701 (k)(1) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34376
1033.740 Introductory text and (a) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34376
1033.901 Amended; eff. 7-29-21
34376
1033.925 (e) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34376
1036.1 (b)(3) added; eff. 7-29-21
34376
1036.108 (a) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34376
1036.150 (e), (g), and (p)(2) revised; (q) added; eff. 7-29-21
34377
1036.225 (e) and (f)(1) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34378
1036.230 (d) revised; (f) added; eff. 7-29-21
34378
1036.235 Introductory text, (b), and (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34378
1036.255 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34379
1036.301 (Subpart D) Heading revised; eff. 7-29-21
34379
1036.301 (b)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34379
1036.501 (g) revised; (h) added; eff. 7-29-21
34380
1036.503 Added; eff. 7-29-21
34380
1036.505 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34381
1036.510 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34386
1036.525 (a), (d) introductory text, and (4) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34386
1036.527 Added; eff. 7-29-21
34386
1036.530 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34387
1036.535 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34388
1036.540 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34394
1036.543 Added; eff. 7-29-21
34403
1036.620 (a) and (b)(1)(iii) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34403
1036.701 (i) and (j) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34403
1036.705 (b)(2) and (5) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34403
1036.801 Amended; eff. 7-29-21
34403
1036.805 (b) through (f) revised; (g) added; eff. 7-29-21
34404
1036.810 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34406
1036.825 (a) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34406
1036 Appendix A added; eff. 7-29-21
34406
1036 Appendix B added; eff. 7-29-21
34408
1036 Appendix C redesignated from Appendix I; eff. 7-29-21
34406
1036 Appendix I redesignated as Appendix C; eff. 7-29-21
34406
1037.103 (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34459
1037.105 (h)(1) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34459
1037.106 (b) and (f)(2)(i) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34459
1037.115 (e) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34459
1037.120 (b)(1)(i) and (ii) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34460
1037.135 (c)(4) removed; eff. 7-29-21
34460
1037.140 (g) and (h) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34460
1037.150 (c), (q)(2), (s), (u), (x) introductory text, (y), (z), and (aa) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34460
1037.201 (h) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34461
1037.205 (e) and (f) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34461
1037.225 (e) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34462
1037.230 (a)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34462
1037.231 (b)(7) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34462
1037.235 (a), (c)(2), and (h) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34462
1037.243 (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34463
1037.255 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34463
1037.301 (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34463
1037.305 (a) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34463
1037.320 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34464
1037.501 (i) added; eff. 7-29-21
34465
1037.510 (a)(2), (c)(3), (d), and (e) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34465
1037.515 (c) and (d)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34466
1037.520 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34467
1037.525 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34473
1037.528 Introductory text, (a), (c) introductory text, (e) introductory text, (g)(3) introductory text, (h)(3)(i), (6), and (12)(v) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34474
1037.530 (d)(7) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34476
1037.532 (a) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34476
1037.534 (c)(1), (2), (d)(4)(i), and (f)(4)(iv) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34476
1037.540 (b)(3), (8), (d)(2), (e)(2), and (f) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34477
1037.550 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34477
1037.551 (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34483
1037.555 (d), (e), and (f) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34483
1037.560 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34484
1037.565 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34486
1037.565 Correction: Revised
52833
1037.570 Added; eff. 7-29-21
34488
1037.570 Correction: Added
52833
1037.601 (a)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34489
1037.615 (f) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34490
1037.621 (g) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34490
1037.635 (c)(1) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34490
1037.660 (a)(2) and (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34490
1037.665 (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34491
1037.670 (a) and (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34491
1037.701 (h) and (i) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34491
1037.705 (c)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34491
1037.740 (b)(1) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34491
1037.801 Amended; eff. 7-29-21
34491
1037.805 (b) through (f) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34492
1037.810 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34496
1037.825 (a) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34496
1037 Appendix III revised; eff. 7-29-21
34496
1037 Appendix IV revised; eff. 7-29-21
34497
1039.1 (b)(3) and (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34499
1039.20 (a) introductory text, (b)(2), (4), and (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34499
1039.101 Introductory text and (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34499
1039.102 Introductory text, (a)(2), (b) Table 1, Table 3, Table 6, (d)(1), (e)(3), (g)(1)(iv), and (2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34500
1039.104 (c)(1), (2)(ii), (4), and (g)(4) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34504
1039.135 (e) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34504
1039.205 (c) added; eff. 7-29-21
34504
1039.245 (a) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34505
1039.255 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34505
1039.601 (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34505
1039.620 (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34505
1039.625 Introductory text, (d)(4) introductory text, (e)(1), (3), (g)(1)(vi), (j) introductory text, and (1) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34505
1039.626 (b)(1)(iv) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34506
1039.655 (a)(2) and (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34506
1039.740 (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34506
1039.801 Amended; eff. 7-29-21
34506
1039 Appendix I added; eff. 7-29-21
34507
1042.1 (b) and (c) revised; (d) removed; eff. 7-29-21
34507
1042.101 (a)(6), (c)(2), and (e)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34508
1042.104 (a)(2) and (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34508
1042.115 (g) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34509
1042.125 (e) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34509
1042.135 (c)(13) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34509
1042.145 (b), (c), (e), (h), and (i) removed; (j) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34509
1042.235 (d)(3) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34510
1042.255 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34510
1042.302 (a) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34510
1042.605 (a), (b), (c), (d)(1)(ii), (2), (3)(ii), (f), and (h) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34510
1042.610 (a), (c), (d)(1), (f), and (g) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34511
1042.615 (a) introductory text and (1), and (3) revised; (f) and (g) added; eff. 7-29-21
34511,
1042.650 Introductory text and (b)(4) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34512
1042.655 (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34512
1042.701 (j) removed; eff. 7-29-21
34512
1042.801 (f)(1) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34512
1042 Appendix I amended; eff. 7-29-21
34513
1042.836 Introductory text and (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34512
1042.901 Amended; eff. 7-29-21
34512
1042.910 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34512
1043.41 (a) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34513
1043.100 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34513
1045.1 (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34513
1045.145 (a) through (g), (i) through (k), and (m) removed; (n) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34513
1045.235 (d)(3) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34514
1045.255 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34514
1045.310 (a)(1) introductory text and (a)(1)(iv) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34514
1045.501 (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34514
1045 Appendix 1 revised; eff. 7-29-21
34514
1048.145 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34515
1048.255 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34515
1048.501 (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34515
1051.145 Removed; eff. 7-29-21
34515
1051.255 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34515
1051.310 (a)(1) introductory text and (iv) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34516
1051.501 (d) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34516
1054.1 (a)(1), (5), (c), and (d) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34516
1054.2 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34516
1054.30 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34517
1054.103 (c) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34517
1054.105 (c) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34517
1054.110 (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34517
1054.120 (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34517
1054.125 Introductory text, (c), and (e) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34517
1054.130 (b)(2) and (5) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34517
1054.135 (c)(2) and (e)(1) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34518
1054.145 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34518
1054.205 (o)(1), (p)(1), (v), and (x) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34518
1054.220 Heading revised; eff. 7-29-21
34519
1054.225 Heading, (b), and (f) introductory text revised; (g) added; eff. 7-29-21
34519
1054.235 Heading, (a), (b), (c), and (d) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34519
1054.240 (a), (b), (c), and (d) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34520
1054.245 (a), (b)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (c) revised; (d) added; eff. 7-29-21
34520
1054.250 (a)(3) removed; (b)(3)(iv) and (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34521
1054.255 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34521
1054.301 (a)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34521
1054.310 (a)(1) introductory text, (iv), and (c)(2) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34521
1054.315 (a)(1) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34521
1054.320 (c) added; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.501 (b)(1), (2) and (4) introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.505 (b)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.601 (d) added; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.612 Introductory text revised; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.620 (c)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.625 Removed; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.626 Removed; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.635 (c)(6) removed; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.640 Removed; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.655 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.690 (f) and (i) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34522
1054.701 (c)(2), (i) introductory text, and (1) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34523
1054.710 (c) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34523
1054.715 (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34523
1054.725 (b)(2) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34523
1054.730 (b)(1), (3), (4), (d)(1)(iii), and (2)(iii) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34523
1054.735 (a) and (b) revised; eff. 7-29-21
34523
1054.740 (c) revised; (d) removed; eff. 7-29-21
34523
1054.801 Amended; eff. 7-29-21
34523
1054.815 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34525
1054.825 Revised; eff. 7-29-21
34525
1054 Appendix I revised; eff. 7-29-21
34526
1054 Appendix II amended; eff. 7-29-21
34527
2022
40 CFR
87 FR
Page
Chapter I
1030.1 (a) introductory text, (1), (3)(ii), and (c)(7) revised
72351
1031 Added
72351
1036.150 (r) added
45263
1036.301 Correction: Amended
64864
1036.503 (b)(3) and (4) revised
45263
1036.535 (d)(2) removed
45263
1036.540 (e) revised
45263
1036.540 Correction: Amended
64864
1037.150 (bb) added
45264
1037.510 (b) revised
45264
1037.520 Introductory text and (j)(1) revised
45265
1037.528 Correction: Amended
64864
1037.540 Correction: Amended
64864
1037.550 (a)(3), (f) introductory text, and (o) revised; (a)(8) added
45265
1037.550 Correction: (f)(4) and Table 1 amended
64864
1037.560 Correction: (f) introductory text, (2), (3), (g) introductory text, (h)(3), and (4) amended
64864
1037.565 Correction: (f) introductory text, (2) introductory text, (3), (4) introductory text, and section amended
64864
1037.570 Correction: (e)(2), (3) introductory text, (f) introductory text, (1) introductory text, (2), (3) introductory text, (g), and section amended
64864
1037.805 Correction: Table 3 and section amended
64864
1037.810 (c) revised
45266
2023
40 CFR
88 FR
Page
Chapter I
1027.101 (a)(1) revised
4484
1030.98 Revised
4484
1031.170 Revised
4484
1033.1 (e) revised
4484
1033.5 (c) removed
4484
1033.101 Introductory text revised
4484
1033.102 Removed
4484
1033.115 (b) introductory text and (c) revised
4484
1033.120 (c) revised
4485
1033.205 (d)(6) revised
4485
1033.245 (f) added
4485
1033.525 Revised
4485
1033.630 (b)(1) revised
4486
1033.815 (f) revised
4486
1033.901 Amended
4486
1033 Appendix I redesignated as appendix A
4486
1033 Appendix A redesignated from appendix I and amended
4486
1036 Revised
4487
1037.1 (a) revised
4635
1037.5 (e) revised
4635
1037.10 (c) revised
4635
1037.101 Revised
4635
1037.102 Revised
4636
1037.103 (b)(1), (f), (g)(1), and (2) revised; (b)(6) removed
4636
1037.105 (g)(2) and (h)(5) through (7) revised; (h)(1) Table 5 amended
4636
1037.106 (f)(1) revised
4637
1037.115 (a) and (e)(3) revised
4637
1037.120 (c) revised
4637
1037.125 (a) and (d) revised
4637
1037.125 Correction: (a) introductory text and (d) revised
15279
1037.130 (b)(3) revised
4638
1037.135 (c)(6) revised
4638
1037.140 (g) revised
4638
1037.150 (f) and (y)(1) revised
4638
1037.201 (h) revised
4638
1037.205 (e) and (p) revised; (q) added
4638
1037.225 Introductory text and (g) revised
4639
1037.230 (c) revised
4639
1037.231 (b)(1) revised
4639
1037.243 Heading, (a), and (b) revised
4639
1037.250 (a) revised
4639
1037.320 (b) revised; Table 1 removed
4639
1037.510 (a)(1)(i), (2), (3), and (d) revised
4641
1037.520 (c)(2), (3), (f), and (h)(1) revised
4642
1037.534 (d)(2) revised
4642
1037.540 Introductory text, (b)(3), (7), (8), and (f) revised
4642
1037.550 Revised
4643
1037.551 Introductory text, (b), and (c) revised
4652
1037.555 Introductory text and (g) revised
4652
1037.560 (c) revised
4652
1037.601 (a)(1) and (c) revised
4652
1037.605 (a) introductory text and (4) revised
4652
1037.615 (f) revised
4652
1037.635 (b)(2) revised
4653
1037.705 (b) revised
4653
1037.725 Heading revised
4653
1037.730 (a), (b) introductory text, (c), and (f) revised
4653
1037.735 (b) revised
4653
1037.740 (b) revised
4653
1037.801 Amended
4653
1037.805 (a), (b), (d), (e), (f), and (g) revised
4654
1037.810 Revised
4658
1037.815 Revised
4658
1037.825 (e)(1)(i) revised
4658
1037 Appendixes I, II, III, IV, and V redesignated as A, B, C, D, and E
4658
1039.105 Heading, (a) introductory text, and (b) introductory text revised
4658
1039.115 (e) and (f) revised
4659
1039.205 (s) revised
4659
1039.245 (e) added
4659
1039.501 (c) revised
4659
1039.655 Revised
4659
1039.801 Amended
4660
1039 Appendix I amended
4660
1042.110 (a)(1) revised
4660
1042.115 (d) introductory text and (e) revised
4660
1042.145 (h) added
4661
1042.205 (c) and (s) revised
4661
1042.245 (e) added
4661
1042.301 Revised
4661
1042.302 Introductory text revised
4662
1042.305 (a) revised
4662
1042.310 Revised
4662
1042.315 (a)(1) and (b) revised
4662
1042.320 (c) revised
4662
1042.325 (b) revised
4662
1042.345 Revised
4663
1042.515 (d) revised
4663
1042.615 (g) Introductory text revised
4663
1042.660 (b) revised
4663
1042.901 Amended
4663
1042 Appendix I amended
4664
1043.20 Amended
4664
1043.55 (a) and (b) revised
4664
1043.95 (b) revised
4664
1045.115 (e) and (f) revised
4664
1045.205 (r) revised
4664
1045.801 Amended
4665
1045.815 Revised
4665
1048.115 (e) and (f) revised
4665
1048.205 (t) revised
4665
1048.240 (f) added
4665
1048.501 (e)(2) revised
4665
1048.620 (a)(3), (d), and (e) revised
4665
1048.801 Amended
4665
1048.815 Revised
4666
1051.115 (c), (d) introductory text, (1), (2) introductory text, and (e) revised
4666
1051.205 (q) revised
4666
1051.501 (c)(2), (d)(2)(i), and (3) revised
4666
1051.515 (a)(1) revised
4666
1051.740 (b)(5) revised
4666
1051.801 Amended
4667
1051.815 Revised
4667
1054.115 (b) and (d) revised
4667
1054.205 (o)(1) and (q) revised
4667
1054.230 (b)(8) and (9) revised
4667
1054.505 (a), (b) introductory text, (1)(i), (2), and (d)(1) revised
4667
1054.801 Amended
4668
1054.815 Revised
4668
1054 Appendixes I and II redesignated as A and B
4668
1054 Appendix A redesignated from I and amended
4668
1054 Appendix B redesignated from II and revised
4668
1031 National ambient air quality standard
72372
1054.801 CFR correction: Amended
66694
2024
40 CFR
89 FR
Page
Chapter I
1036.101 Revised
29738
1036.104 (c)(2)(iii) removed
29738
1036.108 (a)(1) and (e) revised
29738
1036.110 (a) revised
28210
1036.110 (b) introductory text, (6), (9) introductory text, (11)(ii), and (c)(1) revised
29739
1036.111 Revised
29739
1036.115 (h)(4) revised
29740
1036.120 (c) revised
29740
1036.125 (h)(8)(iii) revised
29740
1036.150 (a)(2)(ii), (d), (j), (k) introductory text, (q), and (v) revised; (f) and (aa) added
29740
1036.205 (v) revised
29741
1036.230 (e) revised
29741
1036.240 (c)(3) revised
29741
1036.241 (c)(3) revised
29741
1036.245 (c)(3) introductory text and (ii) introductory text revised
29742
1036.250 (a) revised
29742
1036.301 (c) revised
29742
1036.405 (a) and (d) revised
29742
1036.415 (c)(1) revised
29742
1036.420 (a) revised
29742
1036.501 (e) and (f) revised; (g) and (h) added
29742
1036.505 (a) and (b) revised
29743
1036.510 (b) introductory text, (2) introductory text, (vii), (viii), (c)(2) introductory text, (i) introductory text, and (d) through (g) revised; (b)(2)(ix) removed
29743
1036.512 Revised
29745
1036.514 Revised
29746
1036.520 Introductory text, (b) introductory text, (d), and (h) through (j) revised
29747
1036.525 Introductory text revised
29748
1036.530 (g)(1) and (2)(ii) revised; (j) added
29748
1036.535 (b)(1)(ii), (iii), (8), (10), and (e) revised
29750
1036.535 Correction: (b)(8) amended
51235
1036.540 (b), (c)(2) Table 1, (d) introductory text, (3), and (12)(i)(A) revised
29751
1036.543 Revised
29752
1036.545 Added
29752
1036.545 Correction: (f)(3) and (o)(4)(iii) amended
51236
1036.550 (b)(1) and (2) revised; (b)(4) amended
29763
1036.580 (d) added
29763
1036.601 (c) revised
29763
1036.601 (a)(3) amended
88656
1036.605 (e) revised
29763
1036.615 (a) revised
29763
1036.630 (b) revised
29763
1036.635 Added
28211
1036.705 (c) revised
29764
1036.725 (b)(2) revised
29764
1036.730 (b)(4) and (f)(1) revised
29764
1036.735 (d) revised
29764
1036.801 Amended
29764
1036.805 Introductory text revised; (e) Table 5 amended
29765
1036.810 (e) added
29765
1036.815 (b) revised
29765
1037.1 (a) revised
29765
1037.5 (e) revised; (g) and (h) removed; (i) redesignated as new (g)
29765
1037.101 Revised
29765
1037.102 Heading and (b) introductory text revised
29766
1037.103 (e) introductory text revised
29766
1037.104 Removed
29766
1037.105 Revised
29766
1037.105 Correction: (b)(1) amended
51236
1037.106 Heading, (b), and (f)(2) revised; (c) removed
29770
1037.106 Correction: (b)(1) amended
51237
1037.107 Removed
29771
1037.115 (a) and (e)(1) revised; (f) added
29771
1037.120 (b) and (c) revised
29772
1037.130 (a) revised
29772
1037.135 (c)(6) revised
29772
1037.140 (c) and (g) revised
29772
1037.150 (l) revised
28211
1037.150 Revised
29772
1037.205 Introductory text, (a), (b) introductory text, (6), (e), (o), and (q) revised
29776
1037.211 Removed
29777
1037.230 (a)(1) introductory text and (d)(2) introductory text revised; (a)(3) and (d)(3) removed
29777
1037.231 (a) revised
29777
1037.235 Introductory text, (a), and (c)(3) revised; (g)(3) removed
29777
1037.241 Revised
29777
1037.310 Removed
29778
1037.315 (a) revised
29778
1037.401 (b) revised
29778
1037.501 (a), (g)(1)(v), and (h) revised; (i) removed
29778
1037.510 Revised
29778
1037.515 Removed
29780
1037.520 Heading, introductory text, (a)(2) introductory text, (b)(3), (c)(1), (2), (e)(1), (3), (g)(4), (j)(1), and (2)(iii) revised
29780
1037.525 (a) introductory text, (b), (c)(1) introductory text, (2) introductory text, and (3)(v) revised
29782
1037.526 Removed
29783
1037.527 Revised
29783
1037.528 (h)(7) removed; (h)(8) through (12) redesignated as new (h)(7) through (11); introductory text, (b) introductory text, (h)(5) introductory text, (iv), (6) introductory text, and new (10) revised
29783
1037.530 Revised
29784
1037.532 Heading, introductory text, (a) introductory text, (b), and (c) introductory text revised
29785
1037.534 Introductory text and (c) introductory text revised
29785
1037.540 Introductory text, (c), (d)(4), and (f) revised
29785
1037.550 Removed
29786
1037.551 Revised
29786
1037.555 Introductory text and (h) revised
29786
1037.560 (e)(2) and (h)(1) revised
29787
1037.601 (b) revised
29787
1037.601 (a)(5) amended
88656
1037.610 (f)(2) revised
29787
1037.615 Revised
29787
1037.620 (c) removed; (d) through (f) redesignated as new (c) through (e)
29787
1037.622 Introductory text and (d)(5) revised
29787
1037.630 (a)(1)(iii) and (c) revised
29788
1037.631 (a) introductory text revised
29788
1037.635 (b)(1) revised
29788
1037.640 Introductory text revised
29788
1037.660 (a) revised
29788
1037.665 Revised
29788
1037.670 (a) revised
29789
1037.701 (a), (f), and (h) revised
29789
1037.705 Revised
29789
1037.710 (c) revised
29790
1037.715 (a) revised
29790
1037.720 (a) revised
29790
1037.730 (b)(4) and (f)(1) revised
29790
1037.740 (a), (b)(1) introductory text, and (2) revised
29790
1037.745 (a) revised
29790
1037.801 Amended
29790
1037.805 Introductory text and (e) Table 5 amended
29792
1037.810 (c)(2) and (d) revised; (c)(9) removed; (c)(10) redesignated as new (c)(9)
29792
2025
(No regulations published from January 1, 2025, through July 1, 2025)
○
