(2)
Allocation of consideration among assets.
For purposes of determining the seller's amount realized for each of the assets sold in an applicable asset acquisition, the seller allocates consideration to all the assets sold by using the residual method under §§ 1.338-6 and 1.338-7, substituting consideration for ADSP. For purposes of determining the purchaser's basis in each of the assets purchased in an applicable asset acquisition, the purchaser allocates consideration to all the assets purchased by using the residual method under §§ 1.338-6 and 1.338-7, substituting consideration for AGUB. In allocating consideration, the rules set forth in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section apply in addition to the rules in §§ 1.338-6 and 1.338-7.
(3)
Certain costs.
The seller and purchaser each adjusts the amount allocated to an individual asset to take into account the specific identifiable costs incurred in transferring that asset in connection with the applicable asset acquisition (e.g., real estate transfer costs or security interest perfection costs). Costs so allocated increase, or decrease, as appropriate, the total consideration that is allocated under the residual method. No adjustment is made to the amount allocated to an individual asset for general costs associated with the applicable asset acquisition as a whole or with groups of assets included therein (e.g., non-specific appraisal fees or accounting fees). These latter amounts are taken into account only indirectly through their effect on the total consideration to be allocated. If an election described in § 1.338-6(c)(5) is made with respect to an applicable asset acquisition, any allocation of costs pursuant to this paragraph (c)(3) shall be made as if such election had not been made. The preceding sentence applies to applicable asset acquisitions occurring on or after September 11, 2007. For applicable asset acquisitions occurring before September 11, 2007, and on or after September 15, 2004, see § 1.1060-1T as contained in 26 CFR Part 1 in effect on April 1, 2007. For applicable asset acquisitions occurring before September 15, 2004, see §§ 1.338-6 and 1.1060-1 as contained in 26 CFR Part 1 in effect on April 1, 2004.
(4)
Effect of agreement between parties.
If, in connection with an applicable asset acquisition, the seller and purchaser agree in writing as to the allocation of any amount of consideration to, or as to the fair market value of, any of the assets, such agreement is binding on them to the extent provided in this paragraph (c)(4). Nothing in this paragraph (c)(4) restricts the Commissioner's authority to challenge the allocations or values arrived at in an allocation agreement. This paragraph (c)(4) does not apply if the parties are able to refute the allocation or valuation under the standards set forth in
Commissioner
v.
Danielson,
378 F.2d 771 (3d Cir.),
cert. denied,
389 U.S. 858 (1967) (a party wishing to challenge the tax consequences of an agreement as construed by the Commissioner must offer proof that, in an action between the parties to the agreement, would be admissible to alter that construction or show its unenforceability because of mistake, undue influence, fraud, duress, etc.).
(5)
Insurance business.
If the trade or business transferred is an insurance business, the rules of this paragraph (c) are modified by the principles of § 1.338-11(a) through (d). However, in transactions governed by section 1060, such principles apply even if the transfer of
the trade or business is effected in whole or in part through indemnity reinsurance rather than assumption reinsurance, and, for the insurer or reinsurer, an insurance contract (including an annuity or reinsurance contract) is a Class VI asset regardless of whether it is a section 197 intangible. In addition, the principles of § 1.338-11(f) through (h) apply if the transfer occurs in connection with the complete liquidation of the transferor.
(d)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate this section:

# Example 1.
(i) On January 1, 2001, A transfers assets X, Y, and Z to B in exchange for assets D, E, and F plus $1,000 cash.
(ii) Assume the exchange of assets constitutes an exchange of like-kind property to which section 1031 applies. Assume also that goodwill or going concern value could under any circumstances attach to each of the DEF and XYZ groups of assets and, therefore, each group constitutes a trade or business under section 1060.
(iii) Assume the fair market values of the assets and the amount of money transferred are as follows:
Asset
Fair market value
By A:
X
$ 400
Y
400
Z
200
Total
1,000
By B:
D
40
E
30
F
30
Cash (amount)
1,000
Total
1,100
(iv) Under paragraph (b)(8) of this section, for purposes of allocating consideration under paragraph (c) of this section, the like-kind assets exchanged and any money or other property that are treated as transferred in exchange for the like-kind property are excluded from the application of section 1060.
(v) Since assets X, Y, and Z are like-kind property, they are excluded from the application of the section 1060 allocation rules.
(vi) Since assets D, E, and F are like-kind property, they are excluded from the application of the section 1060 allocation rules. Thus, the allocation rules of section 1060 do not apply in determining B's gain or loss with respect to the disposition of assets D, E, and F, and the allocation rules of section 1060 and paragraph (c) of this section are not applied to determine A's bases of assets D, E, and F. In addition, $900 of the $1,000 cash B gave to A for A's like-kind assets (X, Y, and Z) is treated as transferred in exchange for the like-kind property in order to equalize the fair market values of the like-kind assets. Therefore, $900 of the cash is excluded from the application of the section 1060 allocation rules.
(vii) $100 of the cash is allocated under section 1060 and paragraph (c) of this section.
(viii) A received $100 that must be allocated under section 1060 and paragraph (c) of this section. Since A transferred no Class I, II, III, IV, V, or VI assets to which section 1060 applies, in determining its amount realized for the part of the exchange to which section 1031 does not apply, the $100 is allocated to Class VII assets (goodwill and going concern value).
(ix) B gave A $100 that must be allocated under section 1060 and paragraph (c) of this section. Since B received from A no Class I, II, III, IV, V, or VI assets to which section 1060 applies, the $100 consideration is allocated by B to Class VII assets (goodwill and going concern value).

# Example 2.
(i) On January 1, 2001, S, a sole proprietor, sells to P, a corporation, a group of assets that constitutes a trade or business under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. S, who plans to retire immediately, also executes in P's favor a covenant not to compete. P pays S $3,000 in cash and assumes $1,000 in liabilities. Thus, the total consideration is $4,000.
(ii) On the purchase date, P and S also execute a separate agreement that states that the fair market values of the Class II, Class III, Class V, and Class VI assets S sold to P are as follows:
Asset
class
Asset
Fair
market
value
II
Actively traded securities
$500
Total Class II
500
III
Accounts receivable
200
Total Class III
200
V
Furniture and fixtures
800
Building
800
Land
200
Equipment
400
Total Class V
2,200
VI
Covenant not to compete
900
Total Class VI
900
(iii) P and S each allocate the consideration in the transaction among the assets transferred under paragraph (c) of this section in accordance with the agreed upon fair market values of the assets, so that $500 is allocated to Class II assets, $200 is allocated
to the Class III asset, $2,200 is allocated to Class V assets, $900 is allocated to Class VI assets, and $200 ($4,000 total consideration less $3,800 allocated to assets in Classes II, III, V, and VI) is allocated to the Class VII assets (goodwill and going concern value).
(iv) In connection with the examination of P's return, the Commissioner, in determining the fair market values of the assets transferred, may disregard the parties' agreement. Assume that the Commissioner correctly determines that the fair market value of the covenant not to compete was $500. Since the allocation of consideration among Class II, III, V, and VI assets results in allocation up to the fair market value limitation, the $600 of unallocated consideration resulting from the Commissioner's redetermination of the value of the covenant not to compete is allocated to Class VII assets (goodwill and going concern value).
(e)
Reporting requirements
—(1)
Applicable asset acquisitions
—(i)
In general.
Unless otherwise excluded from this requirement by the Commissioner, the seller and the purchaser in an applicable asset acquisition each must report information concerning the amount of consideration in the transaction and its allocation among the assets transferred. They also must report information concerning subsequent adjustments to consideration.
(ii)
Time and manner of reporting
—(A)
In general.
The seller and the purchaser each must file asset acquisition statements on Form 8594, “Asset Allocation Statement,” with their income tax returns or returns of income for the taxable year that includes the first date assets are sold pursuant to an applicable asset acquisition. This reporting requirement applies to all asset acquisitions described in this section. For reporting requirements relating to asset acquisitions occurring before March 16, 2001, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, see the temporary regulations under section 1060 in effect prior to March 16, 2001 (see 26 CFR part 1 revised April 1, 2000).
(B)
Additional reporting requirement.
When an increase or decrease in consideration is taken into account after the close of the first taxable year that includes the first date assets are sold in an applicable asset acquisition, the seller and the purchaser each must file a supplemental asset acquisition statement on Form 8594 with the income tax return or return of income for the taxable year in which the increase (or decrease) is properly taken into account.
(C)
Election described in § 1.338-6(c)(5)
—(
1
)
Availability.
The election described in § 1.338-6(c)(5) is available in respect of an applicable asset acquisition provided that the requirements of that section are satisfied. Such election may be made by the seller, regardless of whether the purchaser also makes the election, and may be made by the purchaser, regardless of whether the seller also makes the election.
(
2
)
Time and manner of making election.
The election described in § 1.338-6(c)(5) is made by taking a position on a timely filed original tax return for the taxable year of the applicable asset acquisition that is consistent with having made the election.
(
3
)
Irrevocability of election.
The election described in § 1.338-6(c)(5) is irrevocable.
(
4
)
Effective/applicability date.
This paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(C) applies to applicable asset acquisitions occurring on or after September 11, 2007. For applicable asset acquisitions occurring before September 11, 2007 and on or after September 15, 2004, see § 1.1060-1T as contained in 26 CFR Part 1 in effect on April 1, 2007. For applicable asset acquisitions occurring before September 15, 2004, see §§ 1.338-6 and 1.1060-1 as contained in 26 CFR Part 1 in effect on April 1, 2004.
(2)
Transfers of interests in partnerships.
For reporting requirements relating to the transfer of a partnership interest,
see
§ 1.755-1(d).
[T.D. 8940, 66 FR 9954, Feb. 13, 2001, as amended by T.D. 9059, 68 FR 34299, June 9, 2003; T.D. 9158, 69 FR 55742, Sept. 16, 2004; T.D. 9257, 71 FR 18006, Apr. 10, 2006; T.D. 9358, 72 FR 51706, Sept. 11, 2007; T.D. 9377, 73 FR 3874, Jan. 23, 2008; T.D. 9377, 73 FR 14386, Mar. 18, 2008]
§ 1.1061-0
Table of contents.
This section lists the captions that appear in §§ 1.1061-1 through 1.1061-6.

# § 1.1061-1 Section 1061 definitions.
(a) Definitions.
(b) Applicability date.

# § 1.1061-2 Applicable partnership interests and applicable trades or businesses.
(a) API rules and examples.
(1) Rules.
(i) An API remains an API.
(ii) Application of section 1061 to Unrealized API Gains and Losses.
(iii) API Gains and Losses retain their character.
(iv) Substantial services by the Owner Taxpayer, Passthrough Taxpayer or any Related Person.
(v) Grantor trusts and entities disregarded as separate from their owners.
(2) Examples.
(b) Application of the ATB Activity Test.
(1) In general.
(i) Rules for applying the ATB Activity Test.
(A) Aggregate Specified Actions taken into account.
(B) Raising or Returning Capital Actions and Investing or Developing Actions are not both required to be taken in each taxable year.
(C) Combined conduct by multiple related entities taken into account.
(ii) Developing Specified Assets.
(iii) Partnerships.
(2) Examples.
(c) Applicability date.

# § 1.1061-3 Exceptions to the definition of an API.
(a) A partnership interest held by an employee of another entity not conducting an ATB.
(b) Partnership interest held by a corporation.
(1) In general.
(2) Treatment of interests held by an S corporation or a qualified electing fund.
(c) Capital Interest Gains and Losses.
(1) In general.
(2) Capital Interest Gains and Losses defined.
(3) General rules for determining Capital Interest Allocations.
(i) Commensurate with capital contributed.
(ii) In a similar manner.
(A) Relevant factors.
(B) Clear identification requirement.
(iii) Reinvestment of API Gain.
(iv) Unrelated Non-Service Partner requirement.
(v) Proceeds of certain loans not taken into account for Capital Interest Allocation purposes.
(A) General rule.
(B) Recourse liability.
(vi) Items that are not included in Capital Interest Allocations.
(4) Capital Interest Disposition Amounts.
(i) In general.
(ii) Determination of the Capital Interest Disposition Amount.
(5) Capital Interest Allocations made by a Passthrough Entity that is an API Holder.
(6) Examples.
(d) Partnership interest acquired by purchase by an unrelated person.
(1) Acquirer not a Related Person.
(2) Section 1061(d) not applicable.
(3) Acquirer not a service provider.
(e) [Reserved]
(f) Applicability date.
(1) General rule.
(2) Partnership interest held by an S corporation.
(3) Partnership interest held by a PFIC with respect to which the shareholder has a QEF election in effect.

# § 1.1061-4 Section 1061 computations.
(a) Computations.
(1) Recharacterization Amount.
(2) One Year Gain Amount and Three Year Gain Amount.
(i) One Year Gain Amount.
(ii) Three Year Gain Amount.
(3) API One Year Distributive Share Amount and API Three Year Distributive Share Amount.
(i) API One Year Distributive Share Amount.
(ii) API Three Year Distributive Share Amount.
(4) API One Year Disposition Amount and API Three Year Disposition Amount.
(i) API One Year Disposition Amount.
(ii) API Three Year Disposition Amount.
(b) Special rules for calculating the One Year Gain Amount and the Three Year Gain Amount.
(1) One Year Gain Amount equals zero or less.
(2) Three Year Gain Amount equals zero or less.
(3) One Year Gain Amount less than Three Year Gain Amount.
(4) Installment sale gain.
(5) Special rules for capital gain dividends from regulated investment companies (RICs) and real estate investment trusts (REITs).
(i) API One Year Distributive Share Amount.
(ii) API Three Year Distributive Share Amount.
(iii) Loss on sale or exchange of stock.
(6) Pro rata share of qualified electing fund (QEF) net capital gain.
(i) One year QEF net capital gain.
(ii) Three year QEF net capital gain adjustment.
(7) Items not taken into account for purposes of section 1061.
(8) Holding period determination.
(i) Determination of holding period for purposes of the Three Year Gain Amount.
(ii) Relevant holding period.
(9) Lookthrough Rule for certain API dispositions.
(i) Determination that the Lookthrough Rule applies.
(A) In general.
(B) Determination that the Lookthrough Rule applies to the disposition of a Passthrough Interest.
(ii) Application of the Lookthrough Rule.
(10) Section 83.
(c) Examples.
(1) Recharacterization rules.
(2) Special rules examples.
(d) Applicability date.

# § 1.1061-5 Section 1061(d) transfers to related persons.
(a) In general.
(b) Transfer.
(c) Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount.
(d) Special rules.
(e) Section 1061(d) Related Person.
(f) Examples.
(g) Applicability date.

# § 1.1061-6 Reporting rules.
(a) Owner Taxpayer filing requirements.
(1) In general.
(2) Failure to obtain information.
(b) Passthrough Entity filing requirements and reporting.
(1) Requirement to file information with the IRS and to furnish information to API Holder.
(2) Requirement to request, furnish, and file information in tiered structures.
(i) Requirement to request information.
(ii) Requirement to furnish and file information.
(iii) Timing of requesting and furnishing information.
(A) Requesting information.
(B) Furnishing information.
(iv) Manner of requesting information.
(v) Recordkeeping requirement.
(vi) Passthrough Entity is not furnished information to meet its reporting obligations under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(vii) Filing requirements.
(viii) Penalties.
(c) Regulated investment company (RIC) and real estate investment trust (REIT) reporting.
(1) Section 1061 disclosures.
(i) One Year Amounts Disclosure.
(ii) Three Year Amounts Disclosure.
(2) Pro rata disclosures.
(3) Report to shareholders.
(d) Qualified electing fund (QEF) reporting.
(e) Applicability date.
[T.D. 9945, 86 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2021]
§ 1.1061-1
Section 1061 definitions.
(a)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply solely for purposes of this section and §§ 1.1061-2 through 1.1061-6.
API Gains and Losses
are any long-term capital gains and capital losses with respect to an API and include:
(i) The
API One Year Distributive Share Amount
as defined in § 1.1061-4(a)(3)(i);
(ii) The
API Three Year Distributive Share Amount
as defined in § 1.1061-4(a)(3)(ii);
(iii) The
API One Year Disposition Amount
as defined in § 1.1061-4(a)(4)(i);
(iv) The
API Three Year Disposition Amount
as defined in § 1.1061-4(a)(4)(ii); and
(v) Capital gains or losses from the disposition of Distributed API Property.
API Holder
is a person who holds an API.
Applicable Partnership Interest (API)
means any interest in a partnership which, directly or indirectly, is transferred to (or is held by) an Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Taxpayer in connection with the performance of substantial services by the Owner Taxpayer or by a Passthrough Taxpayer, or by any Related Person, including services performed as an employee, in any ATB unless an exception in § 1.1061-3 applies. For purposes of defining an API under this section and section 1061 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code), an interest in a partnership also includes any financial instrument or contract, the value of which is determined in whole or in part by reference to the partnership (including the amount of partnership distributions, the value of partnership assets, or the results of partnership operations). An Owner Taxpayer and a Passthrough Taxpayer can hold an API directly or indirectly through one or more Passthrough Entities.
Applicable Trade or Business (ATB)
means any activity for which the ATB Activity Test with respect to Specified Actions is met, and includes all Specified Actions taken by Related Persons, including combining activities occurring in separate partnership tiers or entities as one ATB.
ATB Activity Test
has the meaning provided in § 1.1061-2(b)(1).
Capital account
means a capital account maintained under § 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv) or similar principles.
Capital Interest Allocations
means, with respect to a partnership, allocations of long-term capital gain or loss made under the partnership agreement to an API Holder and to Unrelated Non-Service Partners based on such
partners' capital contributed with respect to the partnership to the extent such allocations otherwise meet the requirements of § 1.1061-3(c). With respect to other Passthrough Entities, the principles of this definition apply.
Capital Interest Disposition Amount
has the meaning provided in § 1.1061-3(c)(4).
Capital Interest Gains and Losses
has the meaning provided in § 1.1061-3(c)(2).
Distributed API Property
means property distributed by a Passthrough Entity to an API Holder with respect to an API if the holding period, as determined under sections 735 and 1223, in the API Holder's hands is three years or less at the time of disposition of the property by the API Holder.
Indirect API
means an API that is held through one or more Passthrough Entities.
Investing or Developing Actions
means actions involving either—
(i) Investing in (or disposing of) Specified Assets (or identifying Specified Assets for such investing or disposition); or
(ii) Developing Specified Assets (see § 1.1061-2(b)(1)(ii)).
Lookthrough Rule
means the recharacterization rule described in § 1.1061-4(b)(9).
One Year Gain Amount
has the meaning provided in § 1.1061-4(a)(2)(i).
Owner Taxpayer
means the person subject to Federal income tax on net gain with respect to an API or an Indirect API during the taxable year, including an owner of a Passthrough Taxpayer unless the owner of the Passthrough Taxpayer is a Passthrough Entity itself or is excepted under § 1.1061-3(a), (b), or (d).
Passthrough Entity
means a partnership, trust, estate, S corporation described in § 1.1061-3(b)(2)(i), or a passive foreign investment company described in § 1.1061-3(b)(2)(ii).
Passthrough Interest
means an interest in a Passthrough Entity that represents in whole or in part an API.
Passthrough Taxpayer
means a Passthrough Entity that is treated as a taxpayer for the purpose of determining the existence of an API.
Raising or Returning Capital Actions
means actions involving raising or returning capital but does not include Investing or Developing Actions.
Recharacterization Amount
has the meaning provided in § 1.1061-4(a)(1).
Related Person
means a person or entity who is treated as related to another person or entity under sections 707(b) or 267(b).
Relevant ATB
means the ATB in which services were provided and in connection with which an API is held or was transferred.
Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount
has the meaning provided in § 1.1061-5(c).
Section 1061(d) Related Person
has the meaning provided in § 1.1061-5(e).
Section 1061 Regulations
means the provisions of this section and §§ 1.1061-2 through 1.1061-6.
Specified Actions
means the combination of Raising or Returning Capital Actions and Investing or Developing Actions.
Specified Assets
means—
(i) Securities, including interests in partnerships qualifying as securities (as defined in section 475(c)(2) without regard to the last sentence thereof);
(ii) Commodities (as defined in section 475(e)(2));
(iii) Real estate held for rental or investment;
(iv) Cash or cash equivalents; and
(v) An interest in a partnership to the extent that the partnership holds Specified Assets. See § 1.1061-2(b)(1)(iii).
(vi) Specified Assets include options or derivative contracts with respect to any of the items provided in paragraphs (i) through (v) of this definition.
Three Year Gain Amount
has the meaning provided in § 1.1061-4(a)(2)(ii).
Unrealized API Gains and Losses
means, with respect to a Passthrough Entity's assets, all unrealized capital gains and losses that would be:
(i) Realized if those assets were disposed of for fair market value in a taxable transaction on the relevant date; and
(ii) Allocated to an API Holder with respect to its API, taking into account the principles of section 704(c).
Unrelated Non-Service Partners
means partners who do not (and did not) provide services in the Relevant ATB and who are not (and were not) Related Persons with respect to any API Holder in the partnership or any person who
provides or has provided services in the Relevant ATB.
(b)
Applicability date.
The provisions of this section apply to taxable years of Owner Taxpayers and Passthrough Entities beginning on or after January 19, 2021. An Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Entity may choose to apply this section to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, provided that they consistently apply the Section 1061 Regulations in their entirety to that year and all subsequent years.
[T.D. 9945, 86 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2021, as amended by T.D. 9945, 89 FR 50525, June 14, 2024]
§ 1.1061-2
Applicable partnership interests and applicable trades or businesses.
(a)
API rules and examples
—(1)
Rules
—(i)
An API remains an API.
Once a partnership interest qualifies as an API, the partnership interest remains an API unless and until the requirements of one of the exceptions to qualification of a partnership interest as an API, set forth in § 1.1061-3, are satisfied.
(ii)
Application of section 1061 to Unrealized API Gains and Losses.
Unrealized API Gains and Losses are API Gains and Losses subject to section 1061 when the gains and losses are realized and recognized. Unrealized API Gains and Losses do not lose their character as such until they are recognized.
(iii)
API Gains and Losses retain their character.
API Gains and Losses retain their character as API Gains and Losses as they are allocated from one Passthrough Entity to another Passthrough Entity and then to the Owner Taxpayer.
(iv)
Substantial services by an Owner Taxpayer, Passthrough Taxpayer, or any Related Person.
If an interest in a partnership is transferred to or held by an Owner Taxpayer, Passthrough Taxpayer, or any Related Person in connection with the performance of services, the Owner Taxpayer, the Passthrough Taxpayer, or the Related Person is presumed to have provided substantial services for purposes of section 1061.
(v)
Grantor trusts and entities disregarded as separate from their owners.
A trust wholly described in subpart E, part I, subchapter J, chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code (that is, a grantor trust), a qualified subchapter S subsidiary described in section 1361(b)(3), and an entity with a single owner that is treated as disregarded as an entity separate from its owner under any provision of the Internal Revenue Code or any part of 26 CFR (including § 301.7701-3 of this chapter) are disregarded for purposes of the Section 1061 Regulations.
(2)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the provisions of this paragraph (a).
(i)
Example 1: API.
(A) A is the general partner of PRS, a partnership, and provides services to PRS. A is engaged in an ATB as defined in § 1.1061-1(a). PRS transfers a PRS profits interest to A in connection with A's performance of substantial services with respect to PRS's ATB. A's interest in PRS is an API.
(B) After 6 years, A retires and is no longer engaged in an ATB and does not perform any services with respect to its ATB and with respect to PRS. However, A retains the API in PRS. PRS continues to acquire new capital assets and to allocate gain to A from the disposition of those assets. Under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, A's interest in PRS remains an API after A retires.
(ii)
Example 2: Contribution of an API to a partnership.
Individuals A, B, and C each directly hold APIs in PRS, a partnership. A and B form a new partnership, GP, and contribute their APIs in PRS to GP. Following the contribution, each of A and B holds an Indirect API because each of A and B now indirectly holds an API in PRS through GP, a Passthrough Entity. Each of A's and B's interests in GP is a Passthrough Interest because each of A's and B's interest in GP represents an Indirect API.
(iii)
Example 3: Passthrough Interest, Indirect API, Passthrough Taxpayer.
Each of A, B, and C provides services to, and is an equal partner in, GP. GP is engaged in an ATB as defined in § 1.1061-1(a), is the general partner of PRS, and provides substantial management services to PRS. In connection with GP's performance of substantial services in an ATB, PRS issues a profits interest to GP. Because GP's PRS interest was received in connection
with GP's providing services in an ATB, GP is a Passthrough Taxpayer and GP's interest in PRS is an API. Because A, B, and C are partners in GP, they each hold a Passthrough Interest in GP and an Indirect API in PRS. Each of A, B, and C is treated as an Owner Taxpayer because each is a partner in GP and because each holds an Indirect API in PRS in connection with the performance of its services to GP's ATB.
(iv)
Example 4: S corporation, Passthrough Interest, Indirect API, and Passthrough Taxpayer.
A owns all of the stock of S Corp, an S corporation. S Corp is engaged in an ATB, as defined in § 1.1061-1(a). S Corp is the general partner of PRS, a partnership, and provides substantial management services to PRS. A provides substantial services in S Corp's ATB. In connection with S Corp providing substantial services to PRS, PRS issues a profits interest to S Corp. S Corp's interest in PRS is its only asset. Because S Corp's profits interest in PRS was issued to S Corp in connection with substantial services in an ATB, S Corp is a Passthrough Taxpayer and its interest in PRS is an API. Because A is a shareholder in S Corp, A holds a Passthrough Interest in S Corp and an Indirect API in PRS as a result of S Corp's API in PRS. A is treated as an Owner Taxpayer because A holds an interest in S Corp, a Passthrough Taxpayer, and also indirectly holds an API in PRS in connection with A's services in S Corp's ATB.
(v)
Example 5: Indirect API, Related Person, and Passthrough Taxpayer.
Each of A, B, and C is an equal partner in partnership GP, the general partner of PRS. GP's Specified Actions do not satisfy the ATB Activity Test under § 1.1061-1(a) and as a result, GP's actions do not establish an ATB. Management Company is a Related Person with respect to GP within the meaning of sections 267(b) and 707(b), is engaged in an ATB, and provides substantial management services to PRS that are sufficient to satisfy the ATB Activity Test. Management Company's actions are attributed to GP under paragraphs (a)(1)(iv) and (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section because Management Company is a Related Person to GP. In connection with Management Company's services to PRS, PRS issues a profits interest to GP. Because its PRS profits interest is issued to GP in connection with services provided by Management Company, a Related Person, GP is a Passthrough Taxpayer and its interest in PRS is an API. Unless an exception described in § 1.1061-3 applies, because A, B, and C are partners in GP, they each hold a Passthrough Interest in GP and an Indirect API in PRS. A, B, and C are treated as Owner Taxpayers because they hold an interest in GP, a Passthrough Taxpayer.
(b)
Application of the ATB Activity Test
—(1)
In general.
The ATB Activity Test is satisfied if both Raising and Returning Actions and Investing or Developing Actions are conducted by an Owner Taxpayer, Passthrough Taxpayer, or one or more Related Persons with respect to an Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Taxpayer, and the total level of activity, including the combined activities of all Related Persons, satisfies the level of activity that would be required to establish a trade or business under section 162.
(i)
Rules for applying the ATB Activity Test
—(A)
Aggregate Specified Actions taken into account.
The determination of whether the ATB Activity Test is satisfied is based on the combined activities conducted that qualify as either Raising or Returning Capital Actions and Investing or Developing Actions. The fact that either Raising or Returning Capital Actions or Investing or Developing Actions are only infrequently taken does not preclude the test from being satisfied if the combined Specified Actions meet the test.
(B)
Raising or Returning Capital Actions and Investing or Developing Actions are not both required to be taken in each taxable year.
Raising or Returning Capital Actions and Investing or Developing Actions are not both required to be taken in each taxable year in order to satisfy the ATB Activity Test. For example, the ATB Activity Test will be satisfied if Investing or Developing Actions are not taken in the current taxable year, but sufficient Raising or Returning Capital Actions are taken in anticipation of future Investing or Developing Actions. Additionally, the ATB Activity Test will be satisfied if
no Raising or Returning Capital Actions are taken in the current taxable year, but have been taken in a prior taxable year (regardless of whether the ATB Activity Test was met in the prior year), and sufficient Investing or Developing Actions are undertaken by the taxpayer in the current taxable year.
(C)
Combined conduct by multiple related entities taken into account
—(
1
)
Related Entities.
If a Related Person(s) (within the meaning of § 1.1061-1(a)) solely or primarily performs Raising or Returning Capital Actions and one or more other Related Person(s) solely or primarily performs Investing or Developing Actions, the combination of the activities performed by these Related Persons will be taken into account in determining whether the ATB Activity Test is satisfied.
(
2
)
Actions taken by an agent or delegate.
Specified Actions taken by an agent or a delegate in its capacity as an agent or a delegate of a principal will be taken into account by the principal in determining whether the ATB Activity Test is satisfied with respect to the principal. These Specified Actions are also taken into account in determining whether the ATB Activity test is satisfied with respect to the agent or the delegate.
(ii)
Developing Specified Assets.
Developing Specified Assets takes place if it is represented to investors, lenders, regulators, or other interested parties that the value, price, or yield of a portfolio business may be enhanced or increased in connection with choices or actions of a service provider. Merely exercising voting rights with respect to shares owned or similar activities do not amount to developing Specified Assets.
(iii)
Partnerships.
Investing or Developing Actions directly conducted with respect to Specified Assets held by a partnership are counted towards the ATB Activity Test. Additionally, a portion of the Investing or Developing Actions conducted with respect to the interests in a partnership that holds Specified Assets is counted towards the ATB Activity Test. This portion is the value of the partnership's Specified Assets over the value of all of the partnership's assets. Actions taken to manage a partnership's working capital will not be taken into account in determining the portion of Investing or Developing Actions conducted with respect to the interests in the partnership.
(2)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of the ATB Activity Test described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(i)
Example 1: Combined activities of Raising or Returning Capital Actions and Investing or Developing Actions.
During the taxable year, B takes a small number of actions to raise capital for new investments. B takes numerous actions to develop Specified Assets. B's actions with respect to raising capital and B's actions with respect to developing Specified Assets are combined for the purpose of determining whether the ATB Activity Test is satisfied. These actions cumulatively rise to the level required to establish a trade or business under section 162. Thus, B satisfies the ATB Activity Test.
(ii)
Example 2: Combining Specified Actions in multiple entities.
GP, a partnership, conducts Raising or Returning Capital Actions. Management Company, a partnership that is a Related Person to GP, conducts Investing or Developing Actions. When GP's and Management Company's activities are combined, the ATB Activity Test is satisfied. Accordingly, both GP and Management Company are engaged in an ATB, and services performed by either GP or Management Company are performed in an ATB under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(iii)
Example 3: Investing or Developing Actions taken after Raising or Returning Capital Actions that do not meet the ATB Activity Test.
In year 1, PRS engaged in Raising or Returning Capital Actions to fund PRS's investment in Specified Assets. However, PRS' Specified Actions during year 1 did not satisfy the ATB Activity Test because they did not satisfy the level of activity required to establish a trade or business under section 162. Therefore, PRS was not engaged in an ATB in year 1. In year 2, PRS engaged in significant Investing or Developing Actions but did not engage in any Raising or Returning Capital Actions. In year 2, PRS's Investing or Developing Actions rise to the level required to establish a trade
or business under section 162. Because PRS has cumulatively engaged in both Investing or Developing Actions and Raising or Returning Capital Actions and because the Specified Actions rise to the level of activity required to establish a trade or business under section 162, PRS is engaged in an ATB in year 2.
(iv)
Example 4: Raising or Returning Capital Actions taken in anticipation of Investing or Developing Actions.
In year 1, A only conducted Raising or Returning Capital Actions. A's Raising or Returning Capital Actions were undertaken to raise capital to invest in Specified Assets with the goal of increasing their value through Investing or Developing Actions and rise to the level of activity required to establish a trade or business under section 162. A did not take Investing or Developing Actions during the taxable year. A's Raising or Returning Capital Actions satisfy the ATB Activity Test because they were undertaken in anticipation of also engaging in Investing or Developing Actions. Therefore, the ATB Activity Test is satisfied, and A is engaged in an ATB in year 1.
(v)
Example 5: Attribution of delegate's actions.
GP is the general partner of PRS. GP is responsible for providing management services to PRS. GP contracts with Management Company to provide management services on GP's behalf to PRS. GP and Management Company are not Related Persons. The Specified Actions taken by Management Company on behalf of GP are attributed to GP for purposes of the ATB Activity Test because the Management Company is operating as a delegate of GP. Additionally, those Specified Actions are taken into account by Management Company for purposes of the ATB Activity Test and whether it is engaged in an ATB.
(vi)
Example 6: ATB Activity Test not satisfied.
A is the manager of a hardware store. Partnership owns the hardware store, including the building in which the hardware business is conducted. In connection with A's services as the manager of the hardware store, a profits interest in Partnership is transferred to A. Partnership's business involves buying hardware from wholesale suppliers and selling it to customers. The hardware is not a Specified Asset. Although real estate is a Specified Asset if it is held for rental or investment purposes, Partnership holds the building for the purpose of conducting its hardware business and not for rental or investment purposes. Therefore, the building is not a Specified Asset as to Partnership. Partnership also maintains and manages a certain amount of working capital for its business, but actions with respect to working capital are not taken into account for the purpose of determining whether the ATB Activity Test is met. Partnership is not a Related Person with respect to any person who takes Specified Actions. Partnership is not engaged in an ATB because the ATB Activity Test is not satisfied. Although Partnership raises capital, its Raising or Returning Capital Actions alone do not satisfy the ATB Activity Test. Further, Partnership takes no Investing or Developing Actions because it holds no Specified Assets other than working capital. Partnership is not in an ATB and the profits interest transferred to A is not an API.
(c)
Applicability date.
The provisions of this section apply to taxable years of Owner Taxpayers and Passthrough Entities beginning on or after January 19, 2021. An Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Entity may choose to apply this section to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, provided that they apply the Section 1061 Regulations in their entirety to that year and all subsequent years.
[T.D. 9945, 86 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2021]
§ 1.1061-3
Exceptions to the definition of an API.
(a)
A partnership interest held by an employee of another entity not conducting an ATB.
An API does not include any interest transferred to a person in connection with the performance of substantial services by that person as an employee of another entity that is conducting a trade or business (other than an ATB) and the person provides services only to such other entity.
(b)
Partnership interest held by a corporation
—(1)
In general.
An API does not include any interest directly or indirectly held by a corporation.
(2)
Treatment of interests held by an S corporation or a qualified electing fund.
For purposes of this section, a corporation does not include an entity for which an election was made to treat the entity as a Passthrough Entity. Thus, the following entities are not treated as corporations for purposes of section 1061—
(i) An S corporation for which an election under section 1362(a) is in effect; and
(ii) A passive foreign investment company (PFIC) with respect to which the shareholder has a qualified electing fund (QEF) election under section 1295 in effect.
(c)
Capital Interest Gains and Losses
—(1)
In general.
Capital Interest Gains and Losses are not subject to section 1061 and, therefore, are not included in calculating an Owner Taxpayer's Recharacterization Amount.
(2)
Capital Interest Gains and Losses defined.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, Capital Interest Gains and Losses are Capital Interest Allocations that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section and Capital Interest Disposition Amounts that meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(3)
General rules for determining Capital Interest Allocations
—(i)
Commensurate with capital contributed.
An allocation will be considered a Capital Interest Allocation if the allocation to the API Holder with respect to its capital interest is determined and calculated in a similar manner as the allocations with respect to capital interests held by similarly situated Unrelated Non-Service Partners who have made significant aggregate capital contributions as described in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a capital interest is an interest that would give the holder a share of the proceeds if the partnership's assets were sold at fair market value at the time the interest was received and the proceeds were then distributed in a complete liquidation of the partnership.
(ii)
In a similar manner.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, a Capital Interest Allocation to an API Holder will be treated as made in a similar manner if allocations and distribution rights with respect to the capital contributed by an API Holder to which the API Holder's Capital Interest Allocation relates are reasonably consistent with allocation and distribution rights with respect to capital contributed by Unrelated Non-Service Partners where the Unrelated Non-Service Partner requirement is met. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3)(ii), allocation and distribution rights for an API Holder that are limited to a particular class of partnership capital interests or that are determined with respect to capital contributions invested in a particular partnership investment will be considered as made in a similar manner to allocations and distribution rights of Unrelated Non-Service Partners where the Unrelated Non-Service Partner requirement is met for the applicable interest class or partnership investment.
(A)
Relevant factors.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3)(ii), the following factors are not exclusive, but are relevant factors in determining whether allocation and distribution rights with respect to capital contributed by an API Holder are reasonably consistent with allocation and distribution rights of persons meeting the Unrelated Non-Service Partner requirement: The amount and timing of capital contributed, the rate of return on capital contributed, the terms, priority, type and level of risk associated with capital contributed, and the rights to cash or property distributions during the partnership's operations and on liquidation. Accordingly, an allocation to an API Holder will not fail to qualify solely because the allocation is subordinated to allocations made to Unrelated Non-Service Partners, because an allocation to an API Holder is not reduced by the cost of services provided by the API Holder or a Related Person to the partnership, where the cost of services provided includes management fees or API allocations, or because an API Holder has a right to receive tax distributions while Unrelated Non-Service Partners do not, where such distributions are treated as advances against future distributions.
(B)
Clear identification requirement.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3)(ii), allocations will be considered
made in a similar manner only if the allocations to the API Holder and the Unrelated Non-Service Partners are allocations with respect to, and corresponding to, such partners' contributed capital that are separate and apart from allocations made to the API Holder with respect to its API and where both the partnership agreement and the partnership's contemporaneous books and records clearly demonstrate that the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section have been met.
(iii)
Reinvestment of API Gain.
If an API Holder is allocated API Gain by a Passthrough Entity, to the extent that an amount equal to the API Gain is reinvested in the Passthrough Entity by the API Holder (either as the result of an actual distribution and recontribution of the API Gain amount or the retention of the API Gain amount by the Passthrough Entity), the amount will be treated as a contribution to the Passthrough Entity for a capital interest that may produce Capital Interest Allocations for the API Holder, provided such allocations meet the requirements of this paragraph (c)(3).
(iv)
Unrelated Non-Service Partner requirement.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the Unrelated Non-Service Partner requirement means that Unrelated Non-Service Partners must have made significant aggregate capital contributions in relation to total capital contributions of all partners. Unrelated Non-Service Partners will be treated as having made significant aggregate capital contributions provided such partners possess five percent or more of the aggregate capital contributed to the partnership at the time the allocations are made. With respect to an API Holder with allocation and distribution rights that are attributable to a particular interest class or partnership investment, the Unrelated Non-Service requirement must be met with respect to that particular interest class or partnership investment.
(v)
Proceeds of certain loans not taken into account for Capital Interest Allocation purposes
—(A)
General rule.
For purposes of the Section 1061 Regulations, an allocation is not a Capital Interest Allocation to the extent the allocation is attributable to the contribution of an amount of capital to a partnership that, directly or indirectly, results from, or is attributable to, any loan or other advance made or guaranteed, directly or indirectly, by the partnership or another partner in the partnership (or any Related Person with respect to such persons), except to the extent a loan or advance is described in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B) of this section. However, the repayments on a loan described in the preceding sentence are taken into account as capital contributed (and may therefore generate Capital Interest Allocations) as those amounts are paid by the partner, provided that the loan is not repaid with the proceeds of another loan described in the preceding sentence.
(B)
Recourse liability.
Paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A) of this section does not apply with respect to an allocation attributable to a contribution made by an individual service provider that, directly or indirectly, results from, or is attributable to, a loan or advance from another partner in the partnership (or any Related Person with respect to such other partner, other than the partnership) to such individual service provider if the individual service provider is personally liable for the repayment of such loan or advance. A contribution made by an individual service provider includes a contribution made by an entity that is wholly owned by, and disregarded as separate from, the individual service provider as described in § 1.1061-2(a)(1)(v), including a contribution attributable to a loan or advance made to the disregarded entity by another partner in the partnership (or any Related Person with respect to such other partner, other than the partnership) if the individual service provider is personally liable for the repayment of any and all borrowed amounts that are not repaid by the disregarded entity. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3)(v)(B), an individual service provider is personally liable for the repayment of a loan or advance made by another partner (or any Related Person with respect to such other partner, other than the partnership) if—
(
1
) The loan or advance is fully recourse to the individual service provider;
(
2
) The individual service provider has no right to reimbursement from any other person; and
(
3
) The loan or advance is not guaranteed by any other person.
(vi)
Items that are not included in Capital Interest Allocations.
Capital Interest Allocations do not include—
(A) Amounts that are treated as API Gains and Losses and Unrealized API Gains and Losses; or
(B) Items that are not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under § 1.1061-4(b)(7).
(4)
Capital Interest Disposition Amounts
—(i)
In general.
The term
Capital Interest Disposition Amount
means the amount of long-term capital gain or loss recognized on the sale or disposition of all or a portion of a Passthrough Interest that is treated as Capital Interest Gain or Loss. In general, long-term capital gain or loss recognized on the sale or disposition of a Passthrough Interest is deemed to be API Gain or Loss unless it is determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section to be a Capital Interest Disposition Amount.
(ii)
Determination of the Capital Interest Disposition Amount.
If a Passthrough Interest that includes a right to allocations of Capital Interest Gains and Losses is disposed of, the amount of long-term capital gain or loss that is treated as a Capital Interest Disposition Amount is determined under the rules provided in this paragraph (c)(4)(ii).
(A) First, determine the amount of long-term capital gain or loss that would be allocated to the Passthrough Interest (or the portion of the Passthrough Interest sold) if all the assets of the Passthrough Entity (including gain or loss with respect to assets described in § 1.1061-4(b)(7)) were sold for their fair market value in a fully taxable transaction immediately before the disposition of the Passthrough Interest (hypothetical asset sale). For purposes of this paragraph (c)(4)(ii), the assets of the Passthrough Entity include any assets held by a lower-tier Passthrough Entity in which the Passthrough Entity has a direct or indirect interest.
(B) Second, determine the amount from the hypothetical asset sale that would be allocated to the Passthrough Interest (or the portion of the Passthrough Interest sold) as Capital Interest Allocations under paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(C) Third, if the transferor recognized long-term capital gain upon disposition of the Passthrough Interest and only net short-term capital losses, net long-term capital losses, or both, are allocated to the Passthrough Interest under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section from the hypothetical asset sale, all of the long-term capital gain is API Gain. If the transferor recognized long-term capital loss on the disposition of the Passthrough Interest and only net short-term capital gains, net long-term capital gains, or both, are allocated to the Passthrough Interest under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, then all the long-term capital loss is API Loss.
(D) If paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C) of this section does not apply and long-term capital gain is recognized on the disposition of the Passthrough Interest, the amount of long-term capital gain that the transferor of the Passthrough Interest recognizes that is treated as a Capital Interest Disposition Amount is determined by multiplying long-term capital gain recognized on the disposition of the Passthrough Interest by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of long-term capital gain determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, and the denominator of which is the amount of long-term capital gain determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, with the percentage represented by the fraction limited to 100 percent. Alternatively, if paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C) of this section does not apply and long-term capital loss is recognized on the disposition of the Passthrough Interest, the amount of long-term capital loss treated as a Capital Interest Disposition Amount is determined by multiplying the transferor's capital loss by a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of long-term capital loss determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, and the denominator of which is the amount of long-term capital loss determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, with the
percentage represented by the fraction limited to 100 percent.
(E) In applying this paragraph (c)(4)(ii), allocations of amounts that are not included in determining the amount of long-term capital gain or loss recognized on the sale or disposition of the Passthrough Interest are not included. See, for example, section 751(a).
(5)
Capital Interest Allocations made by a Passthrough Entity that is an API Holder.
An allocation made to a Passthrough Entity that holds an API in a lower-tier Passthrough Entity will be considered a Capital Interest Allocation if it meets the principles set forth in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section (other than paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section). For purposes of applying the Capital Interest Allocation rules in this paragraph (c)(5) to a tiered partnership structure, to the extent that a Capital Interest Allocation that is made by a lower-tier partnership to an upper-tier partnership is properly allocated to the upper-tier partnership's partners with respect to their capital interests in the upper-tier partnership in a manner that is respected under 704(b) (taking into account the principles of section 704(c)), such allocation is a Capital Interest Allocation.
(6)
Examples.
The rules of this paragraph (c) are illustrated by the following examples.
(i)
Example 1: Capital Interest Allocations
—(A)
Facts.
Each of A, B, and C contributes $100 to GP and is an equal partner in GP, a partnership that is the general partner of PRS, a partnership. The contributions are not attributable to loans or advances described in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A) of this section. PRS's other partners are Unrelated Non-Service Partners. Each of GP and PRS makes allocations to its partners in accordance with its partners' interests in that partnership, as described in § 1.704-1(b)(3). GP holds a 20% profits interest in PRS that is an API that GP received in exchange for providing substantial services to PRS in an ATB. GP's API is an Indirect API to each of A, B, and C. GP contributes the $300 of capital contributed by A, B and C to PRS. GP's $300 contribution equals 2% of the contributed capital made by all of PRS's partners ($15,000). PRS's partnership agreement describes its partners' economic distribution rights with respect to its liquidating proceeds as follows: First, liquidating proceeds are proportionately distributed to each of GP and the Unrelated Non-Service Partners equal to the amount necessary to return each of those partners' unreturned capital; second, liquidating proceeds are distributed to GP with respect to its API in PRS; and, finally, any residual liquidating proceeds are distributed, proportionately, 98% to the Unrelated Non-Service Partners and 2% to GP. During its initial taxable year, PRS has $10,000 of net capital gain, causing an increase in PRS's distributable proceeds of $10,000. In accordance with the partners' economic rights as described in PRS's partnership agreement, PRS allocates $2,160 of net capital gain to GP (a $2,000 API allocation plus $160 ($8,000 ($10,000−$2,000) × 2%), with respect to GP's contributed capital) and $7,840 of net capital gain to the Unrelated Non-Service Partners with respect to their contributed capital. GP allocates $720 ($2,160/3) of this net capital gain to each of A, B, and C in accordance with their interests in GP.
(B)
PRS's Capital Interest Allocation Analysis.
Because PRS's partnership agreement provides for no differences as to the amount and timing of capital contributed, the rate of return on capital contributed, the type and level of risk associated with capital contributed, or the rights to cash or property distributions during the PRS's operations and on liquidation, the allocations and distribution rights with respect the capital contributed by GP are reasonably consistent with the allocation and distribution rights with respect to capital contributed by Unrelated Non-Service Partners. Accordingly, GP's allocation of $160 is a Capital Interest Allocation that is treated as made in a similar manner as the allocations made to the Unrelated Non-Service Partners.
(C)
GP's Capital Interest Allocation Analysis.
GP is allocated $2,160 from PRS, consisting of a $2,000 API allocation and a $160 Capital Interest Allocation. The $160 Capital Interest Allocation is allocated equally to A, B, and C based on their capital contributions to
GP. Therefore, they qualify as Capital Interest Allocations by GP. See paragraph (c)(5) of this section. The $2,000 of gain allocated by PRS to GP with respect to GP's API cannot be treated as a Capital Interest Allocation by GP and therefore is subject to section 1061. In summary, A, B, and C are each allocated $720 of capital gain from PRS ($2,160/3). Of this amount, $667 is API Gain ($2,000/3) and $53 is a Capital Interest Allocation ($160/3).
(ii)
Example 2: Sale of a Passthrough Interest
—(A)
Facts.
In Year 1, A, B, and C form GP, a partnership. Each of A, B, and C contributes $100 to GP and is an equal partner in GP. The contributions are not attributable to loans or advances described in paragraph (c)(3)(v)(A) of this section. GP invests the $300 in Asset X in Year 1. GP is also the general partner of PRS, a partnership. PRS's other partners are Unrelated Non-Service Partners. GP holds a 20% profits interest in PRS that is an API that GP received in exchange for providing substantial services to PRS in an ATB. GP's API is an Indirect API to each of A, B, and C. Each of GP and PRS makes allocations to its partners in accordance with its partners' interests in that partnership, as described in § 1.704-1(b)(3). In Year 3, A sells A's interest in GP to an unrelated third party for $800 and recognizes $700 of capital gain on the sale. If PRS had sold its assets in a hypothetical asset sale as required by paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section and liquidated immediately before A sold its interest in GP, GP would have been allocated $1,800 of long-term capital gain with respect to GP's API in PRS, and GP would have allocated $600 of this $1,800 to A. If GP sold Asset X for its fair market value and liquidated immediately before A sold its interest in GP, A would have been allocated $100 of long-term capital gain.
(B)
Analysis.
GP does not have a capital interest in PRS. Therefore, its allocations from PRS are allocations with respect to its API which are subject to section 1061. The total gain allocable to A as a result of the hypothetical liquidations would be $700. Under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(D) of this section, $100 of the $700 of A's interest sale gain is A's Capital Interest Disposition Amount, and is not subject to section 1061.
(iii)
Example 3: Reinvestment of Realized API Gain.
A, B, and C are partners in PRS, a partnership. At the beginning of Year 1, A is issued an API in PRS in exchange for providing substantial services to PRS in an ATB. A has no capital interest in PRS. During Year 1, PRS's assets appreciate by $100. At the end of Year 1, under the terms of its partnership agreement, if PRS were to sell all of its assets at their fair market value and distribute the proceeds in a complete liquidation, A would receive $20 with respect to its API. Thus, at the end of Year 1, A has $20 of Unrealized API Gain. In Year 2, PRS sells Asset X, an asset that PRS owned in Year 1, and allocates $8 of the long-term capital gain to A as API Gain. As a result, $8 of A's $20 of Unrealized API Gain becomes API Gain that is subject to section 1061. A reinvests A's share of the proceeds from the Asset X sale in PRS. As a result, under paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, A has an $8 capital interest in PRS and, provided the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section are met, A may receive future Capital Interest Allocations with respect to the capital interest.
(d)
Partnership interest acquired by purchase by an unrelated person.
If a person (acquirer) acquires an interest in a partnership (target partnership) by taxable purchase for fair market value that, but for the exception set forth in this paragraph (d), would be an API, the transferor of the interest will be treated as selling an API but the acquirer will not be treated as acquiring an API if—
(1)
Acquirer not a Related Person.
Immediately before the purchase, the acquirer is not a Related Person with respect to—
(i) Any person who provides services in the Relevant ATB; or
(ii) Any service providers who provide services to, or for the benefit of, the target partnership or a lower-tier partnership in which the target partnership holds an interest, directly or indirectly.
(2)
Section 1061(d) not applicable.
Section 1061(d) does not apply to the transaction (as provided in § 1.1061-5).
(3)
Acquirer not a service provider.
At the time of the purchase, the acquirer has not provided, does not provide, and does not anticipate providing services to, or for the benefit of, the target partnership, directly or indirectly, or any lower-tier partnership in which the target partnership directly or indirectly holds an interest.
(e) [Reserved]
(f)
Applicability date
—(1)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section, the provisions of this section apply to taxable years of Owner Taxpayers and Passthrough Entities beginning on or after January 19, 2021. An Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Entity may choose to apply this section to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, provided that they apply the Section 1061 Regulations in their entirety to that year and all subsequent years.
(2)
Partnership interest held by an S corporation.
Paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, which provides that the exception under section 1061(c)(1) to the definition of an API does not apply to a partnership interest held by an S corporation with an election under section 1362(a) in effect, applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017.
(3)
Partnership interest held by a PFIC with respect to which the shareholder has a QEF election in effect.
Paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, which provides that the exception under section 1061(c)(1) to the definition of an API does not apply to a partnership interest held by a PFIC with respect to which the shareholder has a QEF election in effect under section 1295, applies to taxable years of an Owner Taxpayer and Passthrough Entity beginning after August 14, 2020.
[T.D. 9945, 86 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2021, as amended by T.D. 9945, 89 FR 50525, June 14, 2024]
§ 1.1061-4
Section 1061 computations.
(a)
Computations
—(1)
Recharacterization Amount.
The Recharacterization Amount is the amount that an Owner Taxpayer must treat as short-term capital gain under section 1061(a). The Recharacterization Amount equals—
(i) The Owner Taxpayer's One Year Gain Amount; less
(ii) The Owner Taxpayer's Three Year Gain Amount.
(2)
One Year Gain Amount and Three Year Gain Amount
—(i)
One Year Gain Amount.
The Owner Taxpayer's One Year Gain Amount is the sum of—
(A) The Owner Taxpayer's combined net API One Year Distributive Share Amount from all APIs held during the taxable year; and
(B) The Owner Taxpayer's API One Year Disposition Amount.
(ii)
Three Year Gain Amount.
The Owner Taxpayer's Three Year Gain Amount is the sum of—
(A) The Owner Taxpayer's combined net API Three Year Distributive Share Amount from all APIs held during the taxable year; and
(B) The Owner Taxpayer's API Three Year Disposition Amount.
(3)
API One Year Distributive Share Amount and API Three Year Distributive Share Amount
—(i)
API One Year Distributive Share Amount.
The API One Year Distributive Share Amount equals—
(A) The API Holder's distributive share of net long-term capital gain or loss from the partnership for the taxable year (including capital gain or loss on the disposition of Distributed API Property by an API Holder that is a Passthrough Entity or the disposition of all or a part of an API by an API Holder that is a Passthrough Entity), with respect to the partnership interest held by the API Holder calculated without the application of section 1061; less
(B) To the extent included in the amount determined under paragraph (a)(3)(i)(A) of this section, the aggregate of—
(
1
) Amounts that are not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under paragraph (b)(7) of this section; and
(
2
) Capital Interest Gains and Losses as determined under § 1.1061-3(c)(2).
(ii)
API Three Year Distributive Share Amount.
The API Three Year Distributive Share Amount equals the API One Year Distributive Share Amount, less—
(A) Items included in the API One Year Distributive Share Amount that would not be treated as a long-term
gain or loss if three years is substituted for one year in paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 1222; and
(B) Any adjustments resulting from the application of the Lookthrough Rule under paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section when an API is disposed of by an API Holder that is a Passthrough Entity.
(4)
API One Year Disposition Amount and API Three Year Disposition Amount
—(i)
API One Year Disposition Amount.
The API One Year Disposition Amount is the combined net amount of—
(A) Long-term capital gains and losses recognized during the taxable year by an Owner Taxpayer, including long-term capital gain computed under the installment method that is taken into account for the taxable year, on the disposition of all or a portion of an API that has been held for more than one year, including a disposition to which the Lookthrough Rule applies;
(B) Long-term capital gain and loss recognized by an Owner Taxpayer due to a distribution with respect to an API during the taxable year that is treated under section 731(a) as gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a partnership interest held for more than one year; and,
(C) Long-term capital gains and losses recognized by an Owner Taxpayer on the disposition of Distributed API Property (taking into account deemed exchanges under section 751(b)) during the taxable year that has a holding period of more than one year but not more than three years to the distributee Owner Taxpayer on the date of disposition, excluding items described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.
(ii)
API Three Year Disposition Amount.
The API Three Year Disposition Amount is the combined net amount of—
(A) Long-term capital gains and losses recognized during the taxable year by an Owner Taxpayer, including long-term capital gain computed under the installment method that is taken into account for the taxable year, on the disposition of all or a portion of an API that has been held for more than three years and to which the Lookthrough Rule does not apply;
(B) Long-term capital gains and losses recognized by an Owner Taxpayer on the disposition during the taxable year of all or a portion of an API that has been held for more than three years in a transaction to which the Lookthrough Rule in paragraph (b)(9) of this section applies, less any adjustments required under the Lookthrough Rule in paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section; and
(C) Long-term capital gains and losses recognized on a distribution with respect to an API during the taxable year that is treated under sections 731(a) as gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a partnership interest held for more than three years.
(b)
Special rules for calculating the One Year Gain Amount and the Three Year Gain Amount
—(1)
One Year Gain Amount equals zero or less.
If an Owner Taxpayer's One Year Gain Amount is zero or results in a loss, the Recharacterization Amount for the taxable year is zero and section 1061(a) does not apply.
(2)
Three Year Gain Amount equals zero or less.
If an Owner Taxpayer's Three Year Gain Amount is less than or equal to $0, the Three Year Gain Amount is zero for purposes of calculating the Recharacterization Amount.
(3)
One Year Gain Amount less than Three Year Gain Amount.
If the One Year Gain Amount and the Three Year Gain Amount are both greater than zero but the One Year Gain Amount is less than the Three Year Gain Amount, none of the One Year Gain Amount is included in the Recharacterization Amount for the taxable year.
(4)
Installment sale gain.
The One Year Gain Amount under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and the Three Year Gain Amount, as determined under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section include long-term capital gains from installment sales. This includes long-term capital gain or loss recognized with respect to an API after December 31, 2017, with respect to an installment sale that occurred on or before December 31, 2017. The holding period of the asset upon the date of disposition is used for purposes of determining whether capital gain is included in the taxpayer's One Year Gain Amount or the Three Year Gain Amount.
(5)
Special rules for capital gain dividends from regulated investment companies (RICs) and real estate investment trusts (REITs)
—(i)
API One Year Distributive Share Amount.
If a RIC or REIT reports or designates a dividend as a capital gain dividend and provides the One Year Amounts Disclosure as defined in § 1.1061-6(c)(1)(i), the amount provided in the One Year Amounts Disclosure is included in the calculation of an API One Year Distributive Share Amount. If the RIC or REIT does not provide the One Year Amounts Disclosure, the full amount of the RIC's or REIT's capital gain dividend must be included in the calculation of an API One Year Distributive Share Amount.
(ii)
API Three Year Distributive Share Amount.
If a RIC or REIT reports or designates a dividend as a capital gain dividend and provides the Three Year Amounts Disclosure as defined in § 1.1061-6(c)(1)(ii), the amount provided in the Three Year Amounts Disclosure is used for the calculation of an API Three Year Distributive Share Amount. If the RIC or REIT does not provide the Three Year Amounts Disclosure, no amount of the RIC's or REIT's capital gain dividend may be used for the calculation of an API Three Year Distributive Share Amount.
(iii)
Loss on sale or exchange of stock.
If a RIC or REIT provides the Three Year Amounts Disclosure as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, any loss on the sale or exchange of shares of a RIC or REIT held for six months or less is treated as a capital loss on an asset held for more than three years, to the extent of the amount of the Three Year Amounts Disclosure from that RIC or REIT.
(6)
Pro rata share of qualified electing fund (QEF) net capital gain
—(i)
One year QEF net capital gain.
The calculation of an API One Year Distributive Share Amount includes an Owner Taxpayer's inclusion under section 1293(a)(1)(B) as limited by section 1293(e)(2) with respect to a passive foreign investment company (as defined in section 1297(a)) for which a QEF election (as described in section 1295(a)) is in effect for the taxable year. The amount of the inclusion may be reduced by the amount of long-term capital gain that is not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section and may be reduced by the Owner Taxpayer's share of the excess, if any, of the Capital Interest Gain over Capital Interest Loss with respect to the QEF, provided in each case that the relevant information is provided by the QEF. See § 1.1061-6 for reporting rules.
(ii)
Three year QEF net capital gain adjustment.
For purposes of calculating an Owner Taxpayer's API Three Year Distributive Share Amount, the entire amount determined under paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, after any allowed reduction, is included as an item in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(A) of this section unless the QEF provides information to determine the amount of the inclusion that would constitute net capital gain (as defined in § 1.1293-1(a)(2), as limited by section 1293(e)(2)) if the QEF's net capital gain for the taxable year were calculated under section 1222(11) applying paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 1222 by substituting three years for one year. If such information is provided, the amount included as an item in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(A) of this section is the amount determined under paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section that would not be treated as long-term gain if three years were substituted for one year in paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 1222. See § 1.1061-6 for reporting rules.
(7)
Items not taken into account for purposes of section 1061.
The following items of long-term capital gain and loss are excluded from the calculation of the API One Year Distributive Share Amount in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section and the API Three Year Distributive Share Amount in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section—
(i) Long-term capital gain and long-term capital loss determined under section 1231;
(ii) Long-term capital gain and long-term capital loss determined under section 1256;
(iii) Qualified dividends included in net capital gain for purposes of section 1(h)(11)(B); and
(iv) Capital gains and losses that are characterized as long-term or short-
term without regard to the holding period rules in section 1222, such as certain capital gains and losses characterized under the mixed straddle rules described in section 1092(b) and §§ 1.1092(b)-3T, 1.1092(b)-4T, and 1.1092(b)-6.
(8)
Holding period determination
—(i)
Determination of holding period for purposes of the Three Year Gain Amount.
For purposes of computing the Three Year Gain Amount, the relevant holding period of either an asset or an API is determined under all provisions of the Code or regulations that are relevant to determining whether the asset or the API has been held for the long-term capital gain holding period by applying those provisions as if the holding period were three years instead of one year.
(ii)
Relevant holding period.
The relevant holding period is the direct owner's holding period in the asset sold. Accordingly, for purposes of determining an API Holder's Taxpayer's API One Year Distributive Share Amount and API Three Year Distributive Share Amount for the taxable year under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the partnership's holding period in the asset being sold or disposed of (whether a directly held asset or a partnership interest) is the relevant holding period for purposes of section 1061.
(9)
Lookthrough Rule for certain API dispositions
—(i)
Determination that the Lookthrough Rule applies
—(A)
In general.
The Lookthrough Rule will apply if, at the time of disposition of an API held for more than three years—
(
1
) The API would have a holding period of three years or less if the holding period of such API were determined by not including any period before the date that an Unrelated Non-Service Partner is legally obligated to contribute substantial money or property directly or indirectly to the Passthrough Entity to which the API relates. This paragraph (b)(9)(i)(A) does not apply to the disposition of an API to the extent that the gain recognized upon the disposition of the API is attributable to any asset not held for portfolio investment on behalf of third party investors (as defined in section 1061(c)(5)). Solely for the purpose of this paragraph (b)(9)(i)(A), a substantial legal obligation to contribute money or property is an obligation to contribute a value that is at least 5 percent of the partnership's total capital contributions as of the time of the API disposition; or
(
2
) A transaction or series of transactions has taken place with a principal purpose of avoiding potential gain recharacterization under section 1061(a).
(B)
Determination that the Lookthrough Rule applies to the disposition of a Passthrough Interest.
Paragraph (b)(9)(i)(A) of this section similarly applies with respect to a Passthrough Interest issued by an S corporation or a PFIC to the extent that the Passthrough Interest is treated as an API.
(ii)
Application of the Lookthrough Rule.
If the Lookthrough Rule applies, for purposes of computing an Owner Taxpayer's Recharacterization Amount, as described in paragraph (a) of this section—
(A) The Owner Taxpayer must include the entire amount of capital gain recognized on the disposition of an API by the Owner Taxpayer in the Owner Taxpayer's API One Year Disposition Amount; and
(B) The Owner Taxpayer must include in its Three Year Disposition Amount an amount equal its One Year Disposition Amount (determined under paragraph (b)(9)(ii)(A) of this section) reduced by the Owner Taxpayer's share of the amount of any gain, directly or indirectly, from assets held for three years or less that would have been allocated to the Owner Taxpayer (to the extent attributable to the transferred API) by the partnership if the partnership had sold all of its property in a fully taxable transaction for cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such property (taking into account section 7701(g)) immediately prior to the Owner Taxpayer's transfer of the API.
(C) In the case of an API disposition by an API Holder that is a Passthrough Entity and not an Owner Taxpayer, the principles set forth in paragraph (b)(9)(ii)(A) of this section must be applied to determine the amount to include in the Owner Taxpayer's One
Year Distributive Amount and in paragraph (b)(9)(ii)(B) of this section to determine the amounts included in the Owner Taxpayer's Three Year Distributive Share Amount.
(10)
Section 83.
Except with respect to any portion of the interest that is a capital interest under § 1.1061-3(c), this section applies regardless of whether an Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Entity has made an election under section 83(b) or included amounts in gross income under section 83.
(c)
Examples
—(1)
Recharacterization rules.
The rules of paragraph (a) of this section are illustrated by the following examples. Unless otherwise stated, all gains and losses are long-term capital gains and losses, none of the long-term capital gain or loss in this section is capital gain or loss not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under paragraph (b)(7) of this section, and neither the Lookthrough Rule nor section 751 is applicable.
(i)
Example 1: Determination of API One Year and Three Year Distributive Share Amounts
—(A)
Facts.
A holds an API in PRS but has no capital interest in PRS and is not entitled to a Capital Interest Allocation with respect to PRS. During the taxable year, PRS allocates to A $20 of long-term capital gain from the sale of capital asset X (which had been held by PRS for two years) and $40 of long-term capital gain from the sale of capital asset Y (which had held by PRS for five years). A has no other items of long-term capital gain or loss with respect to its interest in PRS during the taxable year. A has no other long-term capital gains or losses with respect to any other API during the taxable year.
(B)
Determination of A's API One Year Distributive Share Amount.
Under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, A has an API One Year Distributive Share Amount of $60. This amount is the sum of the $20 of the long-term capital gain allocated to A from PRS's sale of capital asset X and the $40 of long-term capital gain allocated to A from PRS's sale of capital asset Y.
(C)
Determination of A's API Three Year Distributive Share Amount.
(
1
) Under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, A's API Three Year Distributive Share Amount is equal to A's API One Year Distributive Amount, $60, less the sum of:
(
i
) The items included in the API One Year Distributive Share Amount that would not be treated as a long-term gain or loss if three years is substituted for one year in paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 1222, $20; and
(
ii
) Adjustments resulting from the application of the Lookthrough Rule under paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section, which under the facts in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(A) of this section, is inapplicable.
(
2
) Thus, A's API Three Year Distributive Share Amount is $40.
(D)
Determination of A's Recharacterization Amount.
Under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, A's One Year Gain Amount is equal to A's API One Year Distributive Share Amount, $60. A's Three Year Gain Amount is equal to A's API Three Year Distributive Share Amount, $40. Under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, A's Recharacterization Amount is A's One Year Gain Amount, minus A's Three Year Gain Amount, or $20.
(ii)
Example 2: API One Year and Three Year Disposition Amounts
—(A)
Facts.
During the taxable year, A disposes of an API that A has held for four years for a $100 gain. Additionally, A sells Distributed API Property for a $300 gain at a time when A has a two-year holding period in such property. A has no other items of long-term capital gain or loss with respect to any API in the year.
(B)
Determination of A's API One Year and Three Year Disposition Amounts.
Under paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, A's API One Year Disposition Amount is $400. This amount is the sum of A's $300 of long-term capital gain on A's disposition of the Distributed API Property and A's $100 of long-term capital gain on the disposition of the API. Under paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, A's API Three Year Disposition Amount is $100, which is the amount of long-term capital gain that A recognized upon disposition of the API held for more than three years. Under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, A's One Year Gain Amount is $400 and A's Three Year Gain Amount is $100.
(C)
Determination of A's Recharacterization Amount.
Under paragraph (a)(1)
of this section, A's Recharacterization Amount is $300, which is the difference between A's One Year Gain Amount and Three Year Gain Amount.
(iii)
Example 3: Determination of One Year Gain Amount, Three Year Gain Amount, and Recharacterization Amount
—(A)
Facts.
A holds an API in each of PRS1 and PRS2. With respect to PRS1, A's API One Year Distributive Share Amount is $100 and A's API Three Year Distributive Share Amount is ($200). With respect to PRS2, A's API One Year Distributive Share Amount is $600 and A's API Three Year Distributive Share Amount is $300. During the taxable year, A also has an API One Year Disposition Amount of $200 of gain. A has no other items of long-term capital gain or loss with respect to an API for the taxable year.
(B)
Determination of A's One Year Gain Amount.
Under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, A's One Year Gain Amount is $900, which is an amount equal to A's $100 API One Year Distributive Share Amount from PRS1 and A's $600 API One Year Distributive Share Amount from PRS2 (a combined net API One Year Distributive Share Amount of $700) plus A's $200 API One Year Disposition Amount.
(C)
Determination of A's Three Year Gain Amount.
Under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, A's Three Year Gain Amount is $100, which is equal to A's combined net API Three Year Distributive Share Amount for the taxable year (A's $200 API Three Year Distributive Share Amount loss from PRS1 plus A's API Three Year Distributive Share Amount of $300 from PRS2). A does not have an API Three Year Disposition Amount.
(D)
Determination of A's Recharacterization Amount.
Under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, A's Recharacterization Amount is $800. (A's One Year Gain Amount of $900 less A's Three Year Gain Amount of $100.)
(2)
Special rules examples.
The principles of paragraph (b) of this section are illustrated by the following examples.
(i)
Example 1: Lookthrough Rule.
On July 1, 2021, A and B form partnership PRS. At the time of PRS's formation, A agrees to provide substantial services to PRS in exchange for a 20% profits interest in PRS, and B, a partner that is an Unrelated Non-Service Partner, contributes $1 million in exchange for an interest in PRS and PRS immediately uses the capital to purchase marketable securities. On July 1, 2023, C, another Unrelated Non-Service Partner becomes legally obligated to contribute capital to PRS ($75 million) for the purposes of investing in and developing Specified Assets and is admitted into PRS. On July 3, 2023, and after C makes a contribution of $75 million, PRS uses this capital to acquire stock in portfolio company Z. On July 1, 2025, when Z has a value of $500 million and the value of the marketable securities is $2 million, A sells its API in PRS for $85.2 million. As a result of this sale, the Lookthrough Rule applies because B's contribution was non-substantial under paragraph (b)(9)(i)(A)(
1
) of this section. Therefore, A includes $85.2 million in its API One Year Disposition Amount and under paragraph (b)(9)(ii)(B) of this section, $200,000 (20% share of $1 million gain in marketable securities) in its API Three Year Disposition Amount. Accordingly, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, A's Recharacterization Amount is $85 million.
(ii)
Example 2: Installment sale gain.
On December 22, 2021, A disposed of A's API in an installment sale. At the time of the disposition, A had held its API for two years. A received a payment with respect to the installment sale during A's 2022 taxable year, causing A to recognize $200 of long-term capital gain. The $200 long-term capital gain recognized in 2022 is subject to section 1061 because it is recognized after December 31, 2017. Accordingly, the $200 of long-term capital gain recognized by A in 2022 is included in A's API One Year Disposition Amount. The $200 of long-term capital gain is not in A's API Three Year Disposition Amount because the API was not held for more than three years at the time of its disposition.
(iii)
Example 3: REIT capital gain dividend.
During the taxable year, A holds an API in PRS. PRS holds an interest in REIT. During the taxable year, REIT distributes a $1,000 capital gain dividend to PRS of which 50% is allocable to A's API. Part of the capital gain dividend for the year results from
section 1231 gain. In accordance with § 1.1061-6(c)(1)(i), REIT discloses to PRS the One Year Amounts Disclosure of $400, which is the $1,000 capital gain dividend reduced by the $600 of section 1231 capital gain dividend included in that amount. Part of the One Year Amounts Disclosure for the year results from gain from property held for three years or less. In accordance with § 1.1061-6(c)(1)(ii), REIT also discloses the Three Year Amounts Disclosure of $150, which is the $400 One Year Amounts Disclosure reduced by the $250 of gain attributable to property held for three years or less. PRS includes a $200 gain in determining A's API One Year Distributive Share Amount and a $75 gain in determining A's API Three Year Distributive Share Amount. See paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(d)
Applicability date.
The provisions of this section apply to taxable years of Owner Taxpayers and Passthrough Entities beginning on or after January 19, 2021. An Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Entity may choose to apply this section to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, provided that they apply the Section 1061 Regulations in their entirety to that year and all subsequent years.
[T.D. 9945, 86 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2021, as amended by T.D. 9945, 89 FR 50525, June 14, 2024]
§ 1.1061-5
Section 1061(d) transfers to related persons.
(a)
In general.
If an Owner Taxpayer transfers any API or Distributed API Property, directly or indirectly, to a Section 1061(d) Related Person (as defined in paragraph (e) of this section), the Owner Taxpayer must include in gross income as short-term capital gain, an amount equal to—
(1) The short-term capital gain recognized upon the API transfer without regard to this paragraph (a); and
(2) The lesser of—
(i) The amount of net long-term capital gain recognized by the Owner Taxpayer upon the transfer of such interest; or
(ii) The amount treated as short-term capital gain under paragraph (c) of this section (Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount).
(b)
Transfer.
For purposes of this section, the term
transfer
means a sale or exchange in which gain is recognized by the Owner Taxpayer under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code.
(c)
Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount.
To the extent an Owner Taxpayer recognizes long-term capital gain upon a transfer of an API to a Section 1061(d) Related Person, the Owner Taxpayer's Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount is the amount of net long-term capital gain (excluding amounts not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under § 1.1061-4(b)(7)) from assets held for three years or less that would have been allocated to the Owner Taxpayer (to the extent attributable to the transferred API) by the partnership if the partnership had sold all of its property in a fully taxable transaction for cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such property (taking into account section 7701(g)) immediately prior to the Owner Taxpayer's transfer of the API. If only a portion of an Owner Taxpayer's API is transferred, this paragraph (c) shall apply with respect to the portion of gain attributable to the transferred interest.
(d)
Special rules.
For purposes of this section, the following rules are applicable.
(1) An Owner Taxpayer will be treated as transferring the Owner Taxpayer's share of any Indirect API or Distributed API Property if the Indirect API or Distributed API Property is transferred by the API Holder to a person that is a Section 1061(d) Related Person with respect to the Owner Taxpayer.
(2) The rules set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section apply upon the transfer of a Passthrough Interest issued by an S corporation or PFIC to the extent the Passthrough Interest is treated as an API.
(e)
Section 1061(d) Related Person.
For purposes of this section, the term Section 1061(d) Related Person means—
(1) A person that is a member of the taxpayer's family within the meaning of section 318(a)(1);
(2) A person that performed a service within the current calendar year or the preceding three calendar years in a
Relevant ATB to the API transferred by taxpayer; or
(3) A Passthrough Entity to the extent that a person described in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section owns an interest, directly or indirectly.
(f)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules of this section.
(1)
Example 1: Transfer to child by gift.
A, an individual, performs services in an ATB and has held an API in connection with those services for 10 years. The API has a fair market value of $1,000 and a tax basis of $0, and no debt is associated with the API. A transfers all of the API to A's daughter as a gift. A's daughter is a section 1061(d) Related Person but A's gift is not a transfer as described in paragraph (b) of this section; thus section 1061(d) does not apply to A's gift. However, the API remains an API in the hands of A's daughter under § 1.1061-2(a)(1)(i).
(2)
Example 2: Transfer of an API to a partnership owned by Section 1061(d) Related Persons
—(i)
Facts.
A, B, and C are equal partners in GP, a partnership. GP holds only one asset, an API in PRS1 which is an Indirect API as to each of A, B, and C. Each of A, B, and C provides services in the ATB in connection with which GP was transferred its API in PRS1. A and B contribute their interests in GP to PRS2 in a section 721(a) exchange for interests in PRS2.
(ii)
Application of section 1061(d).
Because the contribution by each of A and B of its interest in GP to PRS2 is an exchange in which no gain is recognized by either A or B, the contribution is not a transfer as described in paragraph (b) of this section; thus section 1061(d) does not apply to A's and B's contribution. However, the API remains an API in the hands of PRS2 under § 1.1061-2(a)(1)(i).
(3)
Example 3: Transfer of an API to a Section 1061(d) Related Person.
A has held an API in GP, a partnership, for four years. A transfers the API to a Section 1061(d) Related Person described in paragraph (e) of this section in exchange for $100 of cash, resulting in A recognizing long-term capital gain of $100. Because this is a transfer described in paragraph (b) of this section, section 1061(d) applies to the transfer of A's API and A must determine its Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount under paragraph (c) of this section. If, immediately prior to A's transfer of the API, the partnership had sold all of its assets in a fully taxable transaction for cash equal to the fair market value of the assets, A's share of the net long-term capital gain (excluding amounts not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under § 1.1061-4(b)(7)) from assets held for three years or less would have been $120. Thus, A's Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount is $120. As a result, A's $100 long-term capital gain is recharacterized as short-term capital gain under paragraph (a) of this section. The API remains an API in the hands of the Section 1061(d) Related Person under § 1.1061-2(a)(1)(i).
(g)
Applicability date.
The provisions of this section apply to taxable years of Owner Taxpayers and Passthrough Entities beginning on or after January 19, 2021. An Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Entity may choose to apply this section to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, provided that they apply the Section 1061 Regulations in their entirety to that year and all subsequent years.
[T.D. 9945, 86 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2021, as amended by T.D. 9945, 89 FR 50525, June 14, 2024]
§ 1.1061-6
Reporting rules.
(a)
Owner Taxpayer filing requirements
-(1)
In general.
An Owner Taxpayer must file such information with the IRS as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue or the Commissioner's delegate (Commissioner) may require in forms, instructions, or other guidance as is necessary for the Commissioner to determine that the Owner Taxpayer has properly complied with section 1061 and the Section 1061 Regulations. If an Owner Taxpayer requires information from a Passthrough Entity to determine the Capital Interest Disposition Amount or the Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount, the Owner Taxpayer must request such information from that entity.
(2)
Failure to obtain information.
Paragraph (b)(1) of this section requires certain Passthrough Entities to furnish an Owner Taxpayer with certain amounts necessary to determine its Recharacterization Amount and meet its
reporting requirements under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. To the extent that an Owner Taxpayer is not furnished the information required to be furnished under paragraph (b)(1) of this section in such time and in such manner as required by the Commissioner and the Owner Taxpayer is not otherwise able to substantiate all or a part of these amounts to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, then if the information with respect to the determination of the—
(i) API One Year Distributive Share Amount under § 1.1061-4(a)(3)(i) is not furnished, the API One Year Distributive Share Amount will not be reduced by—
(A) Amounts not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under § 1.1061-4(b)(7); or
(B) Capital Interest Gains and Losses as determined under § 1.1061-3(c)(2).
(ii) API Three Year Distributive Share Amount determined under § 1.1061-4(a)(3)(ii) is not furnished, all items included in the API One Year Distributive Share Amount are treated as items that would not be treated as long-term capital gain or loss, if three years is substituted for one year in paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 1222.
(b)
Passthrough Entity filing requirements and reporting
—(1)
Requirement to file information with the IRS and to furnish information to API Holder.
A Passthrough Entity must file such information with the IRS as the Commissioner may require in forms, instructions, or other guidance as is necessary for the Commissioner to determine that it and its partners have complied with section 1061 and the Section 1061 Regulations. A Passthrough Entity that has issued an API must furnish to the API Holder, including an Owner Taxpayer, such information at such time and in such manner as the Commissioner may require in forms, instructions, or other guidance as is necessary to determine the One Year Gain Amount and the Three Year Gain Amount with respect to an Owner Taxpayer that directly or indirectly holds the API. A Passthrough Entity that has furnished information to the API Holder must file such information with the IRS, at such time and in such manner as the Commissioner may require in forms, instructions, or other guidance. This information includes:
(i) The API One Year Distributive Share Amount and the API Three Year Distributive Share Amount (as determined under § 1.1061-4);
(ii) Capital gains and losses allocated to the API Holder that are excluded from section 1061 under § 1.1061-4(b)(7);
(iii) Capital Interest Gains and Losses allocated to the API Holder (as determined under § 1.1061-3(c)); and
(iv) In the case of a disposition by an API Holder of an interest in the Passthrough Entity during the taxable year, upon the request of an API Holder, any information required by the API Holder to properly take the disposition into account under section 1061, including—
(A) Information necessary to apply the Lookthrough Rule and to determine the API Holder's Capital Interest Disposition Amount; and
(B) Information necessary to determine an Owner Taxpayer's Section 1061(d) Recharacterization Amount.
(2)
Requirement to request, furnish, and file information in tiered structures
—(i)
Requirement to request information.
If a Passthrough Entity requires information to meet its reporting and filing requirements under this section (in addition to any information required to be furnished to the Passthrough Entity under paragraph (b)(1) of this section) from a lower-tier entity in which it holds an interest, the Passthrough Entity must request such information from that entity.
(ii)
Requirement to furnish and file information.
If information is requested of a Passthrough Entity under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the Passthrough Entity must furnish the requested information to the person making the request but only to the extent the information is necessary for the requesting Passthrough Entity to meet its reporting and filing requirements under this section or is required by the Commissioner in forms, instructions, or other guidance. If the person requesting the information is an API Holder in the Passthrough Entity, the
information is furnished under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If the Passthrough Entity requesting the information is not an API Holder, the Passthrough Entity must furnish the information to the requesting Passthrough Entity as required by the Commissioner in forms, instructions, or other guidance.
(iii)
Timing of requesting and furnishing information
—(A)
Requesting information.
A Passthrough Entity described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section must request information under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section by the later of the 30th day after the close of the taxable year to which the information request relates or 14 days after the date of a request for information from an upper-tier Passthrough Entity.
(B)
Furnishing information
—(
1
)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(B)(
2
) of this section, requested information must be furnished by the date on which the entity is required to furnish information under section 6031(b) or under section 6037(b), as applicable.
(
2
)
Late requests.
Information with respect to a taxable year that is requested by an upper-tier Passthrough Entity after the date that is 14 days prior to the due date for a lower-tier Passthrough Entity to furnish and file information under section 6031(b) or section 6037(b), as applicable, must be furnished and filed in the time and manner prescribed by forms, instructions and other guidance.
(iv)
Manner of requesting information.
Information may be requested electronically or in any manner that is agreed to by the parties.
(v)
Recordkeeping requirement.
Any Passthrough Entity receiving a request for information must retain a copy of the request and the date received in its books and records.
(vi)
Passthrough Entity is not furnished information to meet its reporting obligations under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
If an upper-tier Passthrough Entity holds an interest in a lower-tier Passthrough Entity and it is not furnished the information described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or, alternatively, if it has not been furnished information after having properly requested the information under this paragraph (b)(2), the upper-tier Passthrough Entity must take actions to otherwise determine and substantiate the missing information. To the extent that the upper-tier Passthrough Entity is not able to otherwise substantiate and determine the missing information to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, the upper-tier Passthrough Entity must treat these amounts as provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The upper-tier Passthrough Entity must provide notice to the API Holder and the IRS regarding the application of this paragraph (b)(2) to the information being reported as required in forms, instructions, and other guidance.
(vii)
Filing requirements.
Both the Passthrough Entity requesting the information and the Passthrough Entity furnishing the information must file all information with the IRS as the Commissioner may require in forms, instructions, or other guidance.
(viii)
Penalties.
In addition to the requirement in section 1061(e) that the Secretary shall require reporting (at the time and in the manner prescribed by the Secretary) as is necessary to carry out the purposes of this section, the information required to be furnished under this paragraph (b) is also required to be furnished under sections 6031(b) and 6037(b). Failure to report as required under this paragraph (b) will be subject to penalties under section 6722.
(c)
Regulated investment company (RIC) and real estate investment trust (REIT) reporting
—(1)
Section 1061 disclosures.
A RIC or REIT that reports or designates a dividend, or part thereof, as a capital gain dividend, may, in addition to the information otherwise required to be furnished to a shareholder, disclose two amounts for purposes of section 1061—
(i)
One Year Amounts Disclosure.
The
One Year Amounts Disclosure
of a RIC or REIT is a disclosure by the RIC or REIT of an amount that is attributable to a computation of the RIC's or REIT's net capital gain, excluding capital gain and capital loss not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under § 1.1061-4(b)(7). The aggregate amounts provided in the One Year
Amounts Disclosures with respect to a taxable year of a RIC or REIT must equal the lesser of the RIC's or REIT's net capital gain, excluding any capital gains and capital losses not taken into account for purposes of section 1061 under § 1.1061-4(b)(7), for the taxable year or the RIC's or REIT's aggregate capital gain dividends for the taxable year.
(ii)
Three Year Amounts Disclosure.
The
Three Year Amounts Disclosure
of a RIC or REIT is a disclosure by the RIC or REIT of an amount that is attributable to a computation of the RIC's or REIT's One Year Amounts Disclosure substituting “three years” for “one year” in applying section 1222. The aggregate amounts provided in the Three Year Amounts Disclosures with respect to a taxable year of a RIC or REIT must equal the lesser of the aggregate amounts provided in the RIC's or REIT's One Year Amounts Disclosures substituting “three years” for “one year” in applying section 1222 for the taxable year or the RIC's or REIT's aggregate capital gain dividends for the taxable year.
(2)
Pro rata disclosures.
The One Year Amounts Disclosure and Three Year Amounts Disclosure made to each shareholder of a RIC or REIT must be proportionate to the share of capital gain dividends reported or designated to that shareholder for the taxable year.
(3)
Report to shareholders.
A RIC or REIT that provides the section 1061 disclosures described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section must provide those section 1061 disclosures in writing to its shareholders with the statement described in section 852(b)(3)(C)(i) or the notice described in section 857(b)(3)(B) in which the capital gain dividend is reported or designated.
(d)
Qualified electing fund (QEF) reporting.
A passive foreign investment company with respect to which the shareholder has a QEF election (as described in section 1295(a)) in effect for the taxable year that determines net capital gain as provided in § 1.1293-1(a)(2)(i)(A), as limited by section 1293(e)(2), may provide some or all of the information listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (and any other relevant information) to its shareholders to enable API Holders to determine the amount of their inclusion under section 1293(a)(1) that would be included in the API One Year Distributive Share Amounts and API Three Year Distributive Share Amounts. To the extent that such information is not provided, paragraph (a)(2) of this section will apply except that Owner Taxpayers are not permitted to separately substantiate the information. An API Holder who receives the additional information described in this paragraph (d) must retain such information as required by § 1.1295-1(f)(2)(ii).
(e)
Applicability date.
The provisions of this section apply to taxable years of Owner Taxpayers and Passthrough Entities beginning on or after January 19, 2021. An Owner Taxpayer or Passthrough Entity may choose to apply this section to a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, provided that they apply the Section 1061 Regulations in their entirety to that year and all subsequent years.
[T.D. 9945, 86 FR 5480, Jan. 19, 2021, as amended by T.D. 9945, 89 FR 50526, June 14, 2024]

# Changes To Effectuate F.C.C. Policy
§ 1.1071-1
Gain from sale or exchange to effectuate policies of Federal Communications Commission.
(a)(1) At the election of the taxpayer, section 1071 postpones the recognition of the gain upon the sale or exchange of property if the Federal Communications Commission grants the taxpayer a certificate with respect to the ownership and control of radio broadcasting stations which is in accordance with subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. Any taxpayer desiring to obtain the benefits of section 1071 shall file such certificate with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, or the district director for the internal revenue district in which the income tax return of the taxpayer is required to be filed.
(2)(i) In the case of a sale or exchange before January 1, 1958, the certificate from the Federal Communications Commission must clearly identify the property and show that the sale or exchange is necessary or appropriate to effectuate the policies of such Commission with respect to the ownership and control of radio broadcasting stations.
(ii) In the case of a sale or exchange after December 31, 1957, the certificate from the Federal Communications Commission must clearly identify the property and show that the sale or exchange is necessary or appropriate to effectuate a change in a policy of, or the adoption of a new policy by, such Commission with respect to the ownership and control of radio broadcasting stations.
(3) The certificate shall be accompanied by a detailed statement showing the kind of property, the date of acquisition, the cost or other basis of the property, the date of sale or exchange, the name and address of the transferee, and the amount of money and the fair market value of the property other than money received upon such sale or exchange.
(b) Section 1071 applies only in the case of a sale or exchange made necessary by reason of the Federal Communications Commission's policies as to ownership or control of radio facilities. Section 1071 does not apply in the case of a sale or exchange made necessary as a result of other matters, such as the operation of a broadcasting station in a manner determined by the Commission to be not in the public interest or in violation of Federal or State law.
(c) An election to have the benefits of section 1071 shall be made in the manner prescribed in § 1.1071-4.
(d) For purposes of section 1071, the term
radio broadcasting
includes telecasting.
§ 1.1071-2
Nature and effect of election.
(a)
Alternative elections.
(1) A taxpayer entitled to the benefits of section 1071 in respect of a sale or exchange of property may elect—
(i) To treat such sale or exchange as an involuntary conversion under the provisions of section 1033; or
(ii) To treat such sale or exchange as an involuntary conversion under the provisions of section 1033, and in addition elect to reduce the basis of property, in accordance with the regulations prescribed in § 1.1071-3, by all or part of the gain that would otherwise be recognized under section 1033; or
(iii) To reduce the basis of property, in accordance with the regulations prescribed in § 1.1071-3, by all or part of the gain realized upon the sale or exchange.
(2) The effect of the provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph is, in general, to grant the taxpayer an election to treat the proceeds of the sale or exchange as the proceeds of an involuntary conversion subject to the provisions of section 1033, and a further election to reduce the basis of certain property owned by the taxpayer by the amount of the gain realized upon the sale or exchange to the extent of that portion of the proceeds which is not treated as the proceeds of an involuntary conversion.
(3) An election in respect to a sale or exchange under section 1071 shall be irrevocable and binding for the taxable year in which the sale or exchange takes place and for all subsequent taxable years.
(b)
Application of section 1033.
(1) If the taxpayer elects, under either paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, to treat the sale or exchange as an involuntary conversion, the provisions of section 1033, as modified by section 1071, together with the regulations prescribed under such sections, shall be applicable in determining the amount of recognized gain and the basis of property required as a result of such sale or exchange. For the purposes of section 1071 and the regulations thereunder, stock of a corporation operating a radio broadcasting station shall be treated as property similar or related in service or use to the property sold or exchanged. Securities of such a corporation other than stock, or securities of a corporation not operating a radio broadcasting station, do not constitute property similar or related in service or use to the property sold or exchanged. If the taxpayer exercises the election referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the gain realized upon such sale or exchange shall be recognized to the extent of that part of the money received upon the sale or exchange which is not expended in the manner prescribed in section 1033 and the regulations thereunder. If, however, the taxpayer exercises the elections referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)
of this section, the amount of the gain which would be recognized, determined in the same manner as in the case of an election under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, shall not be recognized but shall be applied to reduce the basis of property, remaining in the hands of the taxpayer after such sale or exchange or acquired by him during the same taxable year, which is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation under section 167. Such reduction of basis shall be made in accordance with and under the conditions prescribed by § 1.1071-3.
(2) In the application of section 1033 to determine the recognized gain and the basis of property acquired as a result of a sale or exchange pursuant to an election under paragraph (a)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, the entire amount of the proceeds of such sale or exchange shall be taken into account.
(c)
Example.
The application of the provisions of section 1071 may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
A, who makes his return on a calendar year basis, sold in 1954, for $100,000 cash, stock of X Corporation, which operates a radio broadcasting station. A's basis of this stock was $75,000. The sale was certified by the Federal Communications Commission as provided in section 1071. Soon after, in the same taxable year, A used $50,000 of the proceeds of the sale to purchase stock in Y Corporation, which operates a radio broadcasting station. A elected in his 1954 return to treat such sale and purchase as an involuntary conversion subject to the provisions of section 1033. He also elected at the same time to reduce the basis of depreciable property by the amount of the gain that otherwise would be recognized under the provisions of section 1033, as made applicable by section 1071. The sale results in a recognized gain of $25,000 under section 1033. However, this gain is not recognized in this case because the taxpayer elected to reduce the basis of other property by the amount of the gain. This may be shown as follows:
(1) Sale price of X Corporation stock
$100,000
Basis for gain or loss
75,000
Gain realized
25,000
Proceeds of sale
100,000
Amount expended to replace property sold
50,000
Amount not expended in manner prescribed in section 1033
50,000
Realized gain, recognized under section 1033 (not to exceed the unexpended portion of proceeds of sale)
25,000
Less: Amount applied as a reduction of basis of depreciable property
25,000
Recognized gain for tax purposes
None
(2) The basis of Y Corporation stock in the hands of A is $50,000, computed in accordance with section 1033 and the regulations prescribed under that section. The $50,000 basis is computed as follows:
Basis of property sold (converted)
$75,000
Less: Amount of proceeds not expended
50,000
Balance
25,000
Plus amount of gain recognized under section 1033
25,000
Basis of Y Corporation stock in A's hands
50,000
§ 1.1071-3
Reduction of basis of property pursuant to election under section 1071.
(a)
General rule.
(1) In addition to the adjustments provided in section 1016 and other applicable provisions of chapter 1 of the Code which adjustments are required to be made with respect to the cost or other basis of property, a further adjustment shall be made in the amount of the unrecognized gain under section 1071, if the taxpayer so elects. Such further adjustment shall be made only with respect to the cost or other basis of property which is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation under section 167 (whether or not used in connection with a broadcasting business), and which remains in the hands of the taxpayer immediately after the sale or exchange in respect of which the election is made, or which is acquired by the taxpayer in the same taxable year in which such sale or exchange occurs. If the property is in the hands of the taxpayer immediately after the sale or exchange, the time of reduction of the basis is the date of the sale or exchange; in all other cases the time of reduction of the basis is the date of acquisition.
(2) The reduction of basis under section 1071 in the amount of the unrecognized gain shall be made in respect of the cost or other basis, as of the time prescribed, of all units of property of the specified character. The cost or other basis of each unit shall be decreased in an amount equal to such proportion of the unrecognized gain as the adjusted basis (for determining
gain, determined without regard to this section) of such unit bears to the aggregate of such adjusted bases of all units of such property, but the amount of the decrease shall not be more than the amount of such adjusted basis. If in the application of such rule the adjusted basis of any unit is reduced to zero, the process shall be repeated to reduce the adjusted basis of the remaining units of property by the portion of the unrecognized gain which is not absorbed in the first application of the rule. For such purpose the
adjusted basis
of the remaining units shall be the adjusted basis for determining gain reduced by the amount of the adjustment previously made under this section. The process shall be repeated until the entire amount of the unrecognized gain has been absorbed.
(3) The application of the provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
Using the facts given in the example set forth in § 1.1071-2(c), except that the taxpayer elects to reduce the basis of depreciable property in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of § 1.1071-2, the computation may be illustrated as follows:
Sale price of X Corporation stock
$100,000
Basis for gain or loss
75,000
Realized gain (recognized except for the election under § 1.1071-1)
$25,000
Adjusted basis of other depreciable property in hands of A immediately after sale:
Building
80,000
Transmitter
16,000
Fixtures
4,000
Total
100,000
Computation of reduction:
Building (80,000/100,000) × $25,000 (gain)
20,000
Transmitter (16,000/100,000) × $25,000
4,000
Fixtures (4,000/100,000) × $25,000
1,000
Total reduction
25,000
New basis of assets:
Building ($80,000 minus $20,000)
60,000
Transmitter ($16,000 minus $4,000)
12,000
Fixtures ($4,000 minus $1,000)
3,000
Total adjusted basis after reduction under section 1071
75,000
Realized gain upon sale of X Corporation stock
25,000
Less: Amount applied as a reduction to basis of depreciable property
25,000
Recognized gain for tax purposes
None
(b)
Special cases.
With the consent of the Commissioner, the taxpayer may, however, have the basis of the various units of property of the class specified in section 1071 and this section adjusted in a manner different from the general rule set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. Variations from such general rule may, for example, involve adjusting the basis of only certain units of such property. The request for variations from such general rule should be filed by the taxpayer with his return for the taxable year in which he elects to have the basis of property reduced under section 1071. Agreement between the taxpayer and the Commissioner as to any variations from such general rule shall be effective only if incorporated in a closing agreement entered into under the provisions of section 7121.
§ 1.1071-4
Manner of election.
(a) An election under the provisions of section 1071 shall be in the form of a written statement and shall be executed and filed in duplicate. Such statement shall be signed by the taxpayer or his authorized representative. In the case of a corporation, the statement shall be signed with the corporate name, followed by the signature and title of an officer of the corporation empowered to sign for the corporation, and the corporate seal must be affixed. An election under section 1071 to reduce the basis of property and an election under such section to treat the sale or exchange as an involuntary conversion under section 1033 may be exercised independently of each other. An election under section 1071 must be filed with the return for the taxable year in which the sale or exchange occurs. Where practicable, the certificate of the Federal Communications Commission required by § 1.1071-1 should be filed with the election.
(b) If, in pursuance of an election to have the basis of its property adjusted under section 1071, the taxpayer desires to have such basis adjusted in any manner different from the general rule
set forth in paragraph (a) of § 1.1071-3, the precise method (including allocation of amounts) should be set forth in detail on separate sheets accompanying the election. Consent by the Commissioner to any departure from such general rule shall be effected only by a closing agreement entered into under the provisions of section 7121.

# Exchanges in Obedience to S.E.C. Orders
§ 1.1081-1
Terms used.
The following terms, when used in this section and §§ 1.1081-2 to 1.1083-1, inclusive, shall have the meanings assigned to them in section 1083:
Order of the Securities and Exchange Commission
;
registered holding company
;
holding company system
;
associate company
;
majority-owned subsidiary company
;
system group
;
nonexempt property
; and
stock or securities.
Any other term used in this section and §§ 1.1081-2 to 1.1083-1, inclusive, which is defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, shall be given the respective definition contained in such Code.
§ 1.1081-2
Purpose and scope of exception.
(a) The general rule is that the entire amount of gain or loss from the sale or exchange of property is to be recognized (see section 1002) and that the entire amount received as a dividend is to be included in gross income. (See sections 61 and 301.) Exceptions to the general rule are provided elsewhere in subchapters C and O, chapter 1 of the Code, one of which is that made by section 1081 with respect to exchanges, sales, and distributions specifically described in section 1081. Section 1081 provides the extent to which gain or loss is not to be recognized on (1) the receipt of a distribution described in section 1081(c)(2), or (2) an exchange or sale, or the receipt of a distribution, made in obedience to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which is issued to effectuate the provisions of section 11 (b) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79k (b)). Section 331 provides that a distribution in liquidation of a corporation shall be treated as an exchange. Such distribution is to be treated as an exchange under the provisions of sections 1081 to 1083, inclusive. The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission must be one requiring or approving action which the Commission finds to be necessary or appropriate to effect a simplification or geographical integration of a particular public utility holding company system. For specific requirements with respect to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission, see section 1081 (f).
(b) The requirements for nonrecognition of gain or loss as provided in section 1081 are precisely stated with respect to the following general types of transactions:
(1) The exchange that is provided for in section 1081 (a), in which stock or securities in a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company are exchanged for stock or securities.
(2) The exchange that is provided for in section 1081 (b), in which a registered holding company or an associate company of a registered holding company exchanges property for property.
(3) The distribution that is provided for in section 1081 (c)(1), in which stock or securities are distributed to a shareholder in a corporation which is a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company, or the distribution that is provided for in section 1081 (c)(2), in which a corporation distributes to a shareholder, rights to acquire common stock in a second corporation.
(4) The transfer that is provided for in section 1081 (d), in which a corporation which is a member of a system group transfers property to another member of the same system group.
Certain rules with respect to the receipt of nonexempt property on an exchange described in section 1081 (a) are prescribed in section 1081 (e).
(c) These exceptions to the general rule are to be strictly construed. Unless both the purpose and the specific requirements of sections 1081 to 1083, inclusive, are clearly met, the recognition of gain or loss upon the exchange, sale, or distribution will not be postponed under those sections. Moreover,
even though a taxable transaction occurs in connection or simultaneously with a realization of gain or loss to which nonrecognition is accorded, nevertheless, nonrecognition will not be accorded to such taxable transaction. In other words, the provisions of section 1081 do not extend in any case to gain or loss other than that realized from and directly attributable to a disposition of property as such, or the receipt of a corporate distribution as such, in an exchange, sale, or distribution specifically described in section 1081.
(d) The application of the provisions of part VI (section 1081 and following), subchapter O, chapter 1 of the Code, is intended to result only in postponing the recognition of gain or loss until a disposition of property is made which is not covered by such provisions, and, in the case of an exchange or sale subject to the provisions of section 1081 (b), in the reduction of basis of certain property. The provisions of section 1082 with respect to the continuation of basis and the reduction in basis are designed to effect these results. Although the time of recognition may be shifted, there must be a true reflection of income in all cases, and it is intended that the provisions of such part VI, shall not be construed or applied in such a way as to defeat this purpose.
§ 1.1081-3
Exchanges of stock or securities solely for stock or securities.
The exchange, without the recognition of gain or loss, that is provided for in section 1081 (a) must be one in which stock or securities in a corporation which is a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company are exchanged solely for stock or securities other than stock or securities which constitute nonexempt property. An exchange is not within the provisions of section 1081 (a) unless the stock or securities transferred and those received are stock or securities as defined by section 1083 (f). The stock or securities which may be received without the recognition of gain or loss are not limited to stock or securities in the corporation from which they are received. An exchange within the provisions of section 1081 (a) may be a transaction between the holder of stock or securities and the corporation which issued the stock or securities. Also the exchange may be made by a holder of stock or securities with an associate company (i.e., a corporation in the same holding company system with the issuing corporation) which is a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company. In either case, the nonrecognition provisions of section 1081 (a) apply only to the holder of the stock or securities. However, the transferee corporation must be acting in obedience to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission directed to such corporation, if no gain or loss is to be recognized to the holder of the stock or securities who makes the exchange with such corporation. See also section 1081(b), in case the holder of the stock or securities is a registered holding company or an associate company of a registered holding company. An exchange is not within the provisions of section 1081(a) if it is within the provisions of section 1081(d), relating to transfers within a system group. For treatment when nonexempt property is received, see section 1081(e); for further limitations, see section 1081(f).
§ 1.1081-4
Exchanges of property for property by corporations.
(a)
Application of section 1081(b).
Section 1081(b) applies only to the transfers specified therein with respect to which section 1081(d) is inapplicable, and deals only with such transfers if gain is realized upon the sale or other disposition effected by such transfers. If loss is realized section 1081(b) is inapplicable and the application of other provisions of subtitle A of the Code must be determined. See section 1081(g). If section 1081(b) is applicable, the other provisions of subchapters C and O, chapter 1 of the Code, relating to the nonrecognition of gain are inapplicable, and the conditions under which, and the extent to which, the realized gain is not recognized are set forth in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this section.
(b)
Nonrecognition of gain; no nonexempt proceeds.
No gain is recognized to a transferor corporation upon the sale or other disposition of property
transferred by such transferor corporation in exchange solely for property other than nonexempt property, as defined in section 1083(e), but only if all of the following requirements are satisfied:
(1) The transferor corporation is, under the definition in section 1083 (b), a registered holding company or an associate company of a registered holding company;
(2) Such transfer is in obedience to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission (as defined in section 1083 (a)) and such order satisfies the requirements of section 1081 (f);
(3) The transferor corporation has filed the required consent to the regulations under section 1082(a)(2) (see paragraph (g) of this section); and
(4) The entire amount of the gain, as determined under section 1001, can be applied in reduction of basis under section 1082(a)(2).
(c)
Nonrecognition of gain; nonexempt proceeds.
If the transaction would be within the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section if it were not for the fact that the property received in exchange consists in whole or in part of nonexempt property (as defined in section 1083 (e)), then no gain is recognized if such nonexempt property, or an amount equal to the fair market value of such nonexempt property at the time of the transfer.
(1) Is expended within the required 24-month period for property other than nonexempt property; or
(2) Is invested within the required 24-month period as a contribution to the capital, or as paid-in surplus, of another corporation;
but only if the expenditure or investment is made
(3) In accordance with an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission (as defined in section 1083 (a)) which satisfies the requirements of section 1081 (f) and which recites that such expenditure or investment by the transferor corporation is necessary or appropriate to the integration or simplification of the holding company system of which the transferor corporation is a member; and
(4) The required consent, waiver, and bond have been executed and filed. See paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.
(d)
Recognition of gain in part; insufficient expenditure or investment in case of nonexempt proceeds.
If the transaction would be within the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section if it were not for the fact that the amount expended or invested is less than the fair market value of the nonexempt property received in exchange, then the gain, if any, is recognized, but in an amount not in excess of the amount by which the fair market value of such nonexempt property at the time of the transfer exceeds the amount so expended and invested.
(e)
Items treated as expenditures for the purpose of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
For the purposes of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the following are treated as expenditures for property other than nonexempt property:
(1) A distribution in cancellation or redemption (except a distribution having the effect of a dividend) of the whole or a part of the transferor's own stock (not acquired on the transfer);
(2) A payment in complete or partial retirement or cancellation of securities representing indebtedness of the transferor or a complete or partial retirement or cancellation of such securities which is a part of the consideration for the transfer; and
(3) If, on the transfer, a liability of the transferor is assumed, or property of the transferor is transferred subject to a liability, the amount of such liability.
(f)
Recognition of gain in part; inability to reduce basis.
If the transaction would be within the provisions of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, if it were not for the fact that an amount of gain cannot be applied in reduction of basis under section 1082(a)(2), then the gain, if any, is recognized, but in an amount not in excess of the amount which cannot be so applied in reduction of basis. If the transaction would be within the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section, if it were not for the fact that an amount of gain cannot be applied in reduction of basis under section 1082(a)(2), then the gain, if any, is recognized, but in an amount not in excess of the aggregate of—
(1) The amount of gain which would be recognized under paragraph (d) of this section if there were no inability
to reduce basis under section 1082(a)(2); and
(2) The amount of gain which cannot be applied in reduction of basis under section 1082(a)(2).
(g)
Consent to regulations under section 1082(a)(2).
To be entitled to the benefits of the provisions of section 1081(b), a corporation must file with its return for the taxable year in which the transfer occurs a consent to have the basis of its property adjusted under section 1082(a)(2) (see § 1.1082-3), in accordance with the provisions of the regulations in effect at the time of filing of the return for the taxable year in which the transfer occurs. Such consent shall be made on Form 982 in accordance with these regulations and instructions on the form or issued therewith.
(h)
Requirements with respect to expenditure or investment.
If the full amount of the expenditure or investment required for the application of paragraph (c) of this section has not been made by the close of the taxable year in which such transfer occurred, the taxpayer shall file with the return for such year an application for the benefit of the 24-month period for expenditure and investment, reciting the nature and time of the proposed expenditure or investment. When requested by the district director, the taxpayer shall execute and file (at such time and in such form) such waiver of the statute of limitations with respect to the assessment of deficiencies (for the taxable year of the transfer and for all succeeding taxable years in any of which falls any part of the period beginning with the date of the transfer and ending 24 months thereafter) as the district director may specify, and such bond with such surety as the district director may require, in an amount not in excess of double the estimated maximum income tax which would be payable if the corporation does not make the required expenditure or investment within the required 24-month period.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6751, 29 FR 11356, Aug. 6, 1964; T.D. 7517, 42 FR 58935, Nov. 14, 1977]
§ 1.1081-5
Distribution solely of stock or securities.
(a)
In general.
If, without any surrender of his stock or securities as defined in section 1083(f), a shareholder in a corporation which is a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company receives stock or securities in such corporation or owned by such corporation, no gain to the shareholder will be recognized with respect to the stock or securities received by such shareholder which do not constitute nonexempt property, if the distribution to such shareholder is made by the distributing corporation in obedience to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission directed to such corporation. A distribution is not within the provisions of section 1081(c)(1) if it is within the provisions of section 1081(d), relating to transfers within a system group. A distribution is also not within the provisions of section 1081(c)(1) if it involves a surrender by the shareholder of stock or securities or a transfer by the shareholder of property in exchange for the stock or securities received by the shareholder. For further limitations, see section 1081(f).
(b)
Special rule.
(1) If there is distributed to a shareholder in a corporation rights to acquire common stock in a second corporation, no gain to the shareholder from the receipt of the rights shall be recognized, but only if all the following requirements are met:
(i) The rights are received by the shareholder without the surrender by the shareholder of any stock in the distributing corporation,
(ii) Such distribution is in accordance with an arrangement forming a ground for an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission issued pursuant to section 3 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U. S. C. 79c) that the distributing corporation is exempt from any provision or provisions of such act, and
(iii) Before January 1, 1958, the distributing corporation disposes of all the common stock in the second corporation which it owns.
(2) The distributing corporation shall, as soon as practicable, notify the district director in whose district the corporation's income tax return and supporting data was filed (see paragraph (g) of § 1.1081-11), as to whether or not the requirement of subparagraph (1)(iii) of this paragraph has been met.
If such requirement has not been met, the periods of limitation (sections 6501 and 6502) with respect to any deficiency, including interest and additions to the tax, resulting solely from the receipt of such rights to acquire stock, shall include one year immediately following the date of such notification; and assessment and collection shall be made notwithstanding any provisions of law or rule of law which would otherwise prevent such assessment and collection.
§ 1.1081-6
Transfers within system group.
(a) The nonrecognition of gain or loss provided for in section 1081(d)(1) is applicable to an exchange of property for other property (including money and other nonexempt property) between corporations which are all members of the same system group. The term
system group
is defined in section 1083 (d).
(b) Section 1081 (d)(1) also provides for nonrecognition of gain to a corporation which is a member of a system group if property (including money or other nonexempt property) is distributed to such corporation as a shareholder in a corporation which is a member of the same system group, without the surrender by such shareholder of stock or securities in the distributing corporation.
(c) As stated in § 1.1081-2, nonrecognition of gain or loss will not be accorded to a transaction not clearly provided for in part VI (section 1081 and following), subchapter O, chapter 1 of the Code, even though such transaction occurs simultaneously or in connection with an exchange, sale, or distribution to which nonrecognition is specifically accorded. Therefore, nonrecognition will not be accorded to any gain or loss realized from the discharge, or the removal of the burden, of the pecuniary obligations of a member of a system group, even though such obligations are acquired upon a transfer or distribution specifically described in section 1081 (d)(1); but the fact that the acquisition of such obligations was upon a transfer or distribution specifically described in section 1081 (d)(1) will, because of the basis provisions of section 1082 (d), affect the cost to the member of such discharge or its equivalent. Thus, section 1081 (d)(1) does not provide for the nonrecognition of any gain or loss realized from the discharge of the indebtedness of a member of a system group as the result of the acquisition in exchange, sale, or distribution of its own bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness which were acquired by another member of the same system group for a consideration less or more than the issuing price thereof (with proper adjustments for amortization of premiums or discounts).
(d) The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
Suppose that the A Corporation and the B Corporation are both members of the same system group; that the A Corporation holds at a cost of $900 a bond issued by the B Corporation at par, $1,000; and that the A Corporation and the B Corporation enter into an exchange subject to the provisions of section 1081 (d)(1) in which the $1,000 bond of the B Corporation is transferred from the A Corporation to the B Corporation. The $900 basis reflecting the cost to the A Corporation which would have been the basis available to the B Corporation if the property transferred to it had been something other than its own securities (see § 1.1082-6) will, in this type of transaction, reflect the cost to the B Corporation of effecting a retirement of its own $1,000 bond. The $100 gain of the B Corporation reflected in the retirement will therefore be recognized.
(e) No exchange or distribution may be made without the recognition of gain or loss as provided for in section 1081 (d)(1), unless all the corporations which are parties to such exchange or distribution are acting in obedience to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission. If an exchange or distribution is within the provisions of section 1081 (d)(1) and also may be considered to be within some other provisions of section 1081, it shall be considered that only the provisions of section 1081 (d)(1) apply and that the nonrecognition of gain or loss upon such exchange or distribution is by virtue of that section.
§ 1.1081-7
Sale of stock or securities received upon exchange by members of system group.
(a) Section 1081(d)(2) provides that to the extent that property received upon an exchange by corporations which are
members of the same system group consists of stock or securities issued by the corporation from which such property was received, such stock or securities may, under certain specifically described circumstances, be sold to a party not a member of the system group, without the recognition of gain or loss to the selling corporation. The nonrecognition of gain or loss is limited, in the case of stock, to a sale of stock which is preferred as to both dividends and assets. The stock or securities must have been received upon an exchange with respect to which section 1081(d)(1) operated to prevent recognition of gain or loss to any party to the exchange. Nonrecognition of gain or loss upon the sale of such stock or securities is permitted only if the proceeds derived from the sale are applied in retirement or cancellation of stock or securities of the selling corporation which were outstanding at the time the exchange was made. It is also essential to nonrecognition of gain or loss upon the sale that both the sale of the stock or securities and the application of the proceeds derived therefrom be made in obedience to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission. If any part of the proceeds derived from the sale is not applied in making the required retirement or cancellation of stock or securities and if the sale is otherwise within the provisions of section 1081 (d)(2), the gain resulting from the sale shall be recognized, but in an amount not in excess of the proceeds which are not so applied. In any event, if the proceeds derived from the sale of the stock or securities exceed the fair market value of such stock or securities at the time of the exchange through which they were acquired by the selling corporation, the gain resulting from the sale is to be recognized to the extent of such excess. Section 1081 (d)(2) does not provide for the nonrecognition of any gain resulting from the retirement of bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness for a consideration less than the issuing price thereof. Also, that section does not provide for the nonrecognition of gain or loss upon the sale of any stock or securities received upon a distribution or otherwise than upon an exchange.
(b) The application of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
The X Corporation and the Y Corporation, both of which make their income tax returns on a calendar year basis, are members of the same system group. As part of an exchange to which section 1081 (d)(1) is applicable the Y Corporation on June 1, 1954, issued to the X Corporation 1,000 shares of class A stock, preferred as to both dividends and assets. The fair market value of such stock at the time of issuance was $90,000 and its basis to the X Corporation was $75,000. On December 1, 1954, in obedience to an appropriate order of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the X Corporation sells all of such stock to the public for $100,000 and applies $95,000 of this amount to the retirement of its own bonds, which were outstanding on June 1, 1954. The remaining $5,000 is not used to retire any of the X Corporation's stock or securities. Of the total gain of $25,000 realized on the disposition of the Y Corporation stock, only $10,000 is recognized (the difference between the fair market value of the stock when acquired and the amount for which it was sold), since such amount is greater than the portion ($5,000) of the proceeds not applied to the retirement of the X Corporation's stock or securities. If in this example the stock acquired by the X Corporation had not been stock of the Y Corporation issued to the X Corporation or if it had been stock not preferred as to both dividends and assets, the full amount of the gain ($25,000) realized upon its disposition would have been recognized, regardless of what was done with the proceeds.
§ 1.1081-8
Exchanges in which money or other nonexempt property is received.
(a) Under section 1081(e)(1), if in any exchange (not within any of the provisions of section 1081(d)) in which stock or securities in a corporation which is a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary are exchanged for stock or securities as provided for in section 1081 (a), there is received by the taxpayer money or other nonexempt property (in addition to property permitted to be received without recognition of gain), then—
(1) The gain, if any, to the taxpayer is to be recognized in an amount not in excess of the sum of the money and the fair market value of the other nonexempt property, but
(2) The loss, if any, to the taxpayer from such an exchange is not to be recognized to any extent.
(b) If money or other nonexempt property is received from a corporation in an exchange described in paragraph (a) of this section and if the distribution of such money or other nonexempt property by or on behalf of such corporation has the effect of the distribution of a taxable dividend, then, as provided in section 1081 (e)(2), there shall be taxed to each distributee (1) as a dividend, such an amount of the gain recognized on the exchange as is not in excess of the distributee's ratable share of the undistributed earnings and profits of the corporation accumulated after February 28, 1913, and (2) the remainder of the gain so recognized shall be taxed as a gain from the exchange of property.
§ 1.1081-9
Requirements with respect to order of Securities and Exchange Commission.
The term
order of the Securities and Exchange Commission
is defined in section 1083(a). In addition to the requirements specified in that definition, section 1081(f) provides that, except in the case of a distribution described in section 1081(c)(2), the provisions of section 1081 shall not apply to an exchange, expenditure, investment, distribution, or sale unless each of the following requirements is met:
(a) The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission must recite that the exchange, expenditure, investment, distribution, or sale is necessary or appropriate to effectuate the provisions of section 11(b) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U. S. C. 79k (b)).
(b) The order shall specify and itemize the stocks and securities and other property (including money) which are ordered to be acquired, transferred, received, or sold upon such exchange, acquisition, expenditure, distribution, or sale and, in the case of an investment, the investment to be made, so as clearly to identify such property.
(c) The exchange, acquisition, expenditure, investment, distribution, or sale shall be made in obedience to such order and shall be completed within the time prescribed in such order.
These requirements were not designed merely to simplify the administration of the provisions of section 1081, and they are not to be considered as pertaining only to administrative matters. Each one of the three requirements is essential and must be met if gain or loss is not to be recognized upon the transaction.
§ 1.1081-10
Nonapplication of other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
The effect of section 1081(g) is that an exchange, sale, or distribution which is within section 1081 shall, with respect to the nonrecognition of gain or loss and the determination of basis, be governed only by the provisions of part VI (section 1081 and following), subchapter O, chapter 1 of the Code, the purpose being to prevent overlapping of those provisions and other provisions of subtitle A of the Code. In other words, if by virtue of section 1081 any portion of a person's gain or loss on any particular exchange, sale, or distribution is not to be recognized, then the gain or loss of such person shall be nonrecognized only to the extent provided in section 1081, regardless of what the result might have been if part VI (section 1081 and following), subchapter O, chapter 1 of the Code, had not been enacted; and similarly, the basis in the hands of such person of the property received by him in such transaction shall be the basis provided by section 1082, regardless of what the basis of such property might have been under section 1011 if such part VI had not been enacted. On the other hand, if section 1081 does not provide for the nonrecognition of any portion of a person's gain or loss (whether or not such person is another party to the same transaction referred to above), then the gain or loss of such person shall be recognized or nonrecognized to the extent provided for by other provisions of subtitle A of the Code as if such part VI had not been enacted; and similarly, the basis in his hands of the property received by him in such transaction shall be the basis provided by other provisions of subtitle A of the Code as if such part VI had not been enacted.
§ 1.1081-11
Records to be kept and information to be filed with returns.
(a)
Distributions and exchanges; significant holders of stock or securities.
Every significant holder must include a statement entitled, “STATEMENT PURSUANT TO § 1.1081-11(a) BY [INSERT NAME AND TAXPAYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (IF ANY) OF TAXPAYER], A SIGNIFICANT HOLDER,” on or with such holder's income tax return for the taxable year in which the distribution or exchange occurs. If a significant holder is a controlled foreign corporation (within the meaning of section 957), each United States shareholder (within the meaning of section 951(b)) with respect thereto must include this statement on or with its return. The statement must include—
(1) The name and employer identification number (if any) of the corporation from which the stock, securities, or other property (including money) was received by such significant holder;
(2) The aggregate basis, determined immediately before the exchange, of any stock or securities transferred by the significant holder in the exchange, and the aggregate fair market value, determined immediately before the distribution or exchange, of the stock, securities or other property (including money) received by the significant holder in the distribution or exchange; and
(3) The date of the distribution or exchange.
(b)
Distributions and exchanges; corporations subject to Commission orders.
Each corporation which is a party to a distribution or exchange made pursuant to an order of the Commission must include on or with its income tax return for its taxable year in which the distribution or exchange takes place a statement entitled, “STATEMENT PURSUANT TO § 1.1081-11(b) BY [INSERT NAME AND EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (IF ANY) OF TAXPAYER], A DISTRIBUTING OR EXCHANGING CORPORATION.” If the distributing or exchanging corporation is a controlled foreign corporation (within the meaning of section 957), each United States shareholder (within the meaning of section 951(b)) with respect thereto must include this statement on or with its return. The statement must include—
(1) The date and control number of the Commission order, pursuant to which the distribution or exchange was made;
(2) The names and taxpayer identification numbers (if any) of the significant holders;
(3) The aggregate fair market value and basis, determined immediately before the distribution or exchange, of the stock, securities, or other property (including money) transferred in the distribution or exchange; and
(4) The date of the distribution or exchange.
(c)
Sales by members of system groups.
Each system group member must include a statement entitled, “STATEMENT PURSUANT TO § 1.1081-11(c) BY [INSERT NAME AND EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (IF ANY) OF TAXPAYER], A SYSTEM GROUP MEMBER,” on or with its income tax return for the taxable year in which the sale is made. If any system group member is a controlled foreign corporation (within the meaning of section 957), each United States shareholder (within the meaning of section 951(b)) with respect thereto must include this statement on or with its return. The statement must include—
(1) The dates and control numbers of all relevant Commission orders;
(2) The aggregate fair market value and basis, determined immediately before the sale, of all stock or securities sold; and
(3) The date of the sale.
(d)
Definitions.
(1) For purposes of this section,
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(2) For purposes of this section,
significant holder
means a person that receives stock or securities from a corporation (the distributing corporation) pursuant to an order of the Commission, if, immediately before the transaction, such person—
(i) In the case of stock—
(A) Owned at least five percent (by vote or value) of the total outstanding stock of the distributing corporation if the stock owned by such person is publicly traded, or
(B) Owned at least one percent (by vote or value) of the total outstanding
stock of the distributing corporation if the stock owned by such person is not publicly traded; or
(ii) In the case of securities, owned securities of the distributing corporation with a basis of $1,000,000 or more.
(3)
Publicly traded stock
means stock that is listed on—
(i) A national securities exchange registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f); or
(ii) An interdealer quotation system sponsored by a national securities association registered under section 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-3).
(4) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, exchange means exchange, expenditure, or investment.
(5) For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section,
system group member
means each corporation which is a member of a system group and which, pursuant to an order of the Commission, sells stock or securities received upon an exchange (pursuant to an order of the Commission) and applies the proceeds derived therefrom in retirement or cancellation of its own stock or securities.
(e)
Substantiation information.
Under § 1.6001-1(e), taxpayers are required to retain their permanent records and make such records available to any authorized Internal Revenue Service officers and employees. In connection with the distribution or exchange described in this section, these records should specifically include information regarding the amount, basis, and fair market value of all property distributed or exchanged, and relevant facts regarding any liabilities assumed or extinguished as part of such distribution or exchange.
(f)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to any taxable year beginning on or after May 30, 2006. However, taxpayers may apply this section to any original Federal income tax return (including any amended return filed on or before the due date (including extensions) of such original return) timely filed on or after May 30, 2006. For taxable years beginning before May 30, 2006, see § 1.1081-11 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 in effect on April 1, 2006.
[T.D. 9329, 72 FR 32803, June 14, 2007]
§ 1.1082-1
Basis for determining gain or loss.
(a) For determining the basis of property acquired in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1942, in any manner described in section 372 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 prior to its amendment by the Revenue Act of 1942 (56 Stat. 798), see such section (before its amendment by such Act).
(b) If the property was acquired in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1941, in any manner described in section 1082 (other than subsection (a)(2)), or section 372 (other than subsection (a)(2)) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 after its amendments, the basis shall be that prescribed in section 1082 with respect to such property. However, in the case of property acquired in a transaction described in section 1081(c)(2), this paragraph is applicable only if the property was acquired in a distribution made in a taxable year subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
(c) Section 1082 makes provisions with respect to the basis of property acquired in a transfer in connection with which the recognition of gain or loss is prohibited by the provisions of section 1081 with respect to the whole or any part of the property received. In general, and except as provided in § 1.1082-3, it is intended that the basis for determining gain or loss pertaining to the property prior to its transfer, as well as the basis for determining the amount of depreciation or depletion deductible and the amount of earnings or profits available for distribution, shall continue notwithstanding the nontaxable conversion of the asset in form or its change in ownership. The continuance of the basis may be reflected in a shift thereof from one asset to another in the hands of the same owner, or in its transfer with the property from one owner into the hands of another. See also § 1.1081-2.
§ 1.1082-2
Basis of property acquired upon exchanges under section 1081 (a) or (e).
(a) In the case of an exchange of stock or securities for stock or securities as described in section 1081 (a), if no part of the gain or loss upon such exchange was recognized under section
1081, the basis of the property acquired is the same as the basis of the property transferred by the taxpayer with proper adjustments to the date of the exchange.
(b) If, in an exchange of stock or securities as described in section 1081 (a), gain to the taxpayer was recognized under section 1081 (e) on account of the receipt of money, the basis of the property acquired is the basis of the property transferred (adjusted to the date of the exchange), decreased by the amount of money received and increased by the amount of gain recognized upon the exchange. If, upon such exchange, there were received by the taxpayer money and other nonexempt property (not permitted to be received without the recognition of gain), and gain from the transaction was recognized under section 1081 (e), the basis (adjusted to the date of the exchange) of the property transferred by the taxpayer, decreased by the amount of money received and increased by the amount of gain recognized, must be apportioned to and is the basis of the properties (other than money) received on the exchange. For the purpose of the allocation of such basis to the properties received, there must be assigned to the nonexempt property (other than money) an amount equivalent to its fair market value at the date of the exchange.
(c) Section 1081(e) provides that no loss may be recognized on an exchange of stock or securities for stock or securities as described in section 1081(a), although the taxpayer receives money or other nonexempt property from the transaction. However, the basis of the property (other than money) received by the taxpayer is the basis (adjusted to the date of the exchange) of the property transferred, decreased by the amount of money received. This basis must be apportioned to the properties received, and for this purpose there must be allocated to the nonexempt property (other than money) an amount of such basis equivalent to the fair market value of such nonexempt property at the date of the exchange.
(d) Section 1082 (a) does not apply in ascertaining the basis of property acquired by a corporation by the issuance of its stock or securities as the consideration in whole or in part for the transfer of the property to it. For the rule in such cases, see section 1082 (b).
(e) For purposes of this section, any reference to section 1081 shall be deemed to include a reference to corresponding provisions of prior internal revenue laws.
§ 1.1082-3
Reduction of basis of property by reason of gain not recognized under section 1081(b).
(a)
Introductory.
In addition to the adjustments provided in section 1016 and other applicable provisions of chapter 1 of the Code, and the regulations relating thereto, which are required to be made with respect to the cost or other basis of property, section 1082(a)(2) provides that a further adjustment shall be made in any case in which there shall have been a nonrecognition of gain under section 1081(b). Such further adjustment shall be made with respect to the basis of the property in the hands of the transferor immediately after the transfer and of the property acquired within 24 months after such transfer by an expenditure or investment to which section 1081(b) relates, and on account of which expenditure or investment gain is not recognized. If the property is in the hands of the transferor immediately after the transfer, the time of reduction is the day of the transfer; in all other cases the time of reduction is the date of acquisition. The effect of applying an amount in reduction of basis of property under section 1081 (b) is to reduce by such amount the basis for determining gain upon sale or other disposition, the basis for determining loss upon sale or other disposition, the basis for depreciation and for depletion, and any other amount which the Code prescribes shall be the same as any of such bases. For the purposes of the application of an amount in reduction of basis under section 1081(b), property is not considered as having a basis capable of reduction if—
(1) It is money, or
(2) If its adjusted basis for determining gain at the time the reduction is to be made is zero, or becomes zero at any time in the application of section 1081 (b).
(b)
General rule.
(1) Section 1082 (a)(2) sets forth seven categories of property, the basis of which for determining gain or loss shall be reduced in the order stated.
(2) If any of the property in the first category has a basis capable of reduction, the reduction must first be made before applying an amount in reduction of the basis of any property in the second or in a succeeding category, to each of which in turn a similar rule is applied.
(3) In the application of the rule to each category, the amount of the gain not recognized shall be applied to reduce the cost or other basis of all the property in the category as follows: The cost or other basis (at the time immediately after the transfer or, if the property is not then held but is thereafter acquired, at the time of such acquisition) of each unit of property in the first category shall be decreased (but the amount of the decrease shall not be more than the amount of the adjusted basis at such time for determining gain, determined without regard to this section) in an amount equal to such proportion of the unrecognized gain as the adjusted basis (for determining gain, determined without regard to this section) at such time of each unit of property of the taxpayer in that category bears to the aggregate of the adjusted basis (for determining gain, computed without regard to this section) at such time of all the property of the taxpayer in that category. When such adjusted basis of the property in the first category has been thus reduced to zero, a similar rule shall be applied, with respect to the portion of such gain which is unabsorbed in such reduction of the basis of the property in such category, in reducing the basis of the property in the second category. A similar rule with respect to the remaining unabsorbed gain shall be applied in reducing the basis of the property in the next succeeding category.
(c)
Special cases.
(1) With the consent of the Commissioner, the taxpayer may, however, have the basis of the various units of property within a particular category specified in section 1082(a)(2) adjusted in a manner different from the general rule set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Variations from such general rule may, for example, involve adjusting the basis of only certain units of the taxpayer's property within a given category. A request for variations from the general rule should be filed by the taxpayer with its income tax return for the taxable year in which the transfer of property has occurred.
(2) Agreement between the taxpayer and the Commissioner as to any variations from such general rule shall be effective only if incorporated in a closing agreement entered into under the provisions of section 7121. If no such agreement is entered into by the taxpayer and the Commissioner, then the consent filed on Form 982 shall (except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph) be deemed to be a consent to the application of such general rule, and such general rule shall apply in the determination of the basis of the taxpayer's property. If, however, the taxpayer specifically states on such form that it does not consent to the application of the general rule, then, in the absence of a closing agreement, the document filed shall not be deemed a consent within the meaning of section 1081(b)(4).
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7517, 42 FR 58935, Nov. 14, 1977]
§ 1.1082-4
Basis of property acquired by corporation under section 1081(a), 1081(b), or 1081(e) as contribution of capital or surplus, or in consideration for its own stock or securities.
If, in connection with an exchange of stock or securities for stock or securities as described in section 1081(a), or an exchange of property for property as described in section 1081(b), or an exchange as described in section 1081(e), property is acquired by a corporation by the issuance of its stock or securities, the basis of such property shall be determined under section 1082(b). If the corporation issued its stock or securities as part or sole consideration for the property acquired, the basis of the property in the hands of the acquiring corporation is the basis (adjusted to the date of the exchange) which the property would have had in the hands of the transferor if the transfer had not
been made, increased in the amount of gain or decreased in the amount of loss recognized under section 1081 to the transferor upon the transfer. If any property is acquired by a corporation from a shareholder as paid-in surplus, or from any person as a contribution to capital, the basis of the property to the corporation is the basis (adjusted to the date of acquisition) of the property in the hands of the transferor.
§ 1.1082-5
Basis of property acquired by shareholder upon tax-free distribution under section 1081(c) (1) or (2).
(a)
Stock or securities.
If there was distributed to a shareholder in a corporation which is a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company, stock or securities (other than stock or securities which are nonexempt property), and if by virtue of section 1081 (c)(1) no gain was recognized to the shareholder upon such distribution, then the basis of the stock in respect of which the distribution was made must be apportioned between such stock and the stock or securities so distributed to the shareholder. The basis of the old shares and the stock or securities received upon the distribution shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:
(1) If the stock or securities received upon the distribution consist solely of stock in the distributing corporation and the stock received is all of substantially the same character and preference as the stock in respect of which the distribution is made, the basis of each share will be the quotient of the cost or other basis of the old shares of stock divided by the total number of the old and the new shares.
(2) If the stock or securities received upon the distribution are in whole or in part stock in a corporation other than the distributing corporation, or are in whole or in part stock of a character or preference materially different from the stock in respect of which the distribution is made, or if the distribution consists in whole or in part of securities other than stock, the cost or other basis of the stock in respect of which the distribution is made shall be apportioned between such stock and the stock or securities distributed in proportion, as nearly as may be, to the respective values of each class of stock or security, old and new, at the time of such distribution, and the basis of each share of stock or unit of security will be the quotient of the cost or other basis of the class of stock or security to which such share or unit belongs, divided by the number of shares or units in the class. Within the meaning of this subparagraph, stocks or securities in one corporation are different in class from stocks or securities in another corporation, and, in general, any material difference in character or preference or terms sufficient to distinguish one stock or security from another stock or security, so that different values may properly be assigned thereto, will constitute a difference in class.
(b)
Stock rights.
If there was distributed to a shareholder in a corporation rights to acquire common stock in a second corporation, and if by virtue of section 1081 (c)(2) no gain was recognized to the shareholder upon such distribution, then the basis of the stock in respect of which the distribution was made must be apportioned between such stock and the stock rights so distributed to the shareholder. The basis of such stock and the stock rights received upon the distribution shall be determined in accordance with the following:
(1) The cost or other basis of the stock in respect of which the distribution is made shall be apportioned between such stock and the stock rights distributed, in proportion to the respective values thereof at the time the rights are issued.
(2) The basis for determining gain or loss from the sale of a right, or from the sale of a share of stock in respect of which the distribution is made, will be the quotient of the cost or other basis, properly adjusted, assigned to the rights or the stock, divided, as the case may be, by the number of rights acquired or by the number of shares of such stock held.
(c)
Cross reference.
As to the basis of stock or securities distributed by one member of a system group to another member of the same system group, see § 1.1082-6.
§ 1.1082-6
Basis of property acquired under section 1081(d) in transactions between corporations of the same system group.
(a) If property was acquired by a corporation which is a member of a system group, from a corporation which is a member of the same system group, upon a transfer or distribution described in section 1081 (d)(1), then as a general rule the basis of such property in the hands of the acquiring corporation is the basis which such property would have had in the hands of the transferor if the transfer or distribution had not been made. Except as otherwise indicated in this section, this rule will apply equally to cases in which the consideration for the property acquired consists of stock or securities, money, and other property, or any of them, but it is contemplated that an ultimate true reflection of income will be obtained in all cases, notwithstanding any peculiarities in form which the various transactions may assume. See the example in § 1.1081-6.
(b) An exception to the general rule is provided for in case the property acquired consists of stock or securities issued by the corporation from which such stock or securities were received. If such stock or securities were the sole consideration for the property transferred to the corporation issuing such stock or securities, then the basis of the stock or securities shall be (1) the same as the basis (adjusted to the time of the transfer) of the property transferred for such stock or securities, or (2) the fair market value of such stock or securities at the time of their receipt, whichever is the lower. If such stock or securities constituted only part consideration for the property transferred to the corporation issuing such stock or securities, then the basis shall be an amount which bears the same ratio to the basis of the property transferred as the fair market value of such stock or securities on their receipt bears to the total fair market value of the entire consideration received, except that the fair market value of such stock or securities at the time of their receipt shall be the basis therefor, if such value is lower than such amount.
(c) The application of paragraph (b) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Suppose the A Corporation has property with an adjusted basis of $600,000 and, in an exchange in which section 1081 (d)(1) is applicable, transfers such property to the B Corporation in exchange for a total consideration of $1,000,000, consisting of (1) cash in the amount of $100,000, (2) tangible property having a fair market value of $400,000 and an adjusted basis in the hands of the B Corporation of $300,000, and (3) stock or securities issued by the B Corporation with a par value and a fair market value as of the date of their receipt in the amount of $500,000. The basis to the B Corporation of the property received by it is $600,000, which is the adjusted basis of such property in the hands of the A Corporation. The basis to the A Corporation of the assets (other than cash) received by it is as follows: Tangible property, $300,000, the adjusted basis of such property to the B Corporation, the former owner; stock or securities issued by the B Corporation, $300,000, an amount equal to 550,000/ 1,000,000ths of $600,000.

# Example 2.
Suppose that in example (1) the property of the A Corporation transferred to the B Corporation had an adjusted basis of $1,100,000 instead of $600,000, and that all other factors in the example remain the same. In such case, the basis to the A Corporation of the stock or securities in the B Corporation is $500,000, which was the fair market value of such stock or securities at the time of their receipt by the A Corporation, because this amount is less than the amount established as 500,000/1,000,000ths of $1,100,000 or $550,000.
§ 1.1083-1
Definitions.
(a)
Order of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(1) An order of the Securities and Exchange Commission as defined in section 1083(a) must be issued after May 28, 1938 (the date of the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1938 (52 Stat. 447)), and must be issued under the authority of section 11(b) or 11(e) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79k (b), (e)), to effectuate the provisions of section 11(b) of such Act. In all cases the order must become or have become final in accordance with law; i.e., it must be valid, outstanding, and not subject to further appeal. See further sections 1083(a) and 1081(f).
(2) Section 11 (b) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 provides:
Sec. 11.
Simplification of holding company systems.
* * *
(b) It shall be the duty of the Commission, as soon as practicable after January 1, 1938:
(1) To require by order, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that each registered holding company, and each subsidiary company thereof, shall take such action as the Commission shall find necessary to limit the operations of the holding-company system of which such company is a part to a single integrated public-utility system, and to such other businesses as are reasonably incidental, or economically necessary or appropriate to the operations of such integrated public-utility system:
Provided, however,
That the Commission shall permit a registered holding company to continue to control one or more additional integrated public-utility systems, if, after notice and opportunity for hearing, it finds that—
(A) Each of such additional systems cannot be operated as an independent system without the loss of substantial economies which can be secured by the retention of control by such holding company of such system;
(B) All of such additional systems are located in one State, or in adjoining States, or in a contiguous foreign country; and
(C) The continued combination of such systems under the control of such holding company is not so large (considering the state of the art and the area or region affected) as to impair the advantages of localized management, efficient operation, or the effectiveness of regulation.
The Commission may permit as reasonably incidental, or economically necessary or appropriate to the operations of one or more integrated public-utility systems the retention of an interest in any business (other than the business of a public-utility company as such) which the Commission shall find necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or consumers and not detrimental to the proper functioning of such system or systems.
(2) To require by order, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that each registered holding company, and each subsidiary company thereof, shall take such steps as the Commission shall find necessary to ensure that the corporate structure or continued existence of any company in the holding-company system does not unduly or unnecessarily complicate the structure, or unfairly or inequitably distribute voting power among security holders, of such holding-company system. In carrying out the provisions of this paragraph the Commission shall require each registered holding company (and any company in the same holding-company system with such holding company) to take such action as the Commission shall find necessary in order that such holding company shall cease to be a holding company with respect to each of its subsidiary companies which itself has a subsidiary company which is a holding company. Except for the purpose of fairly and equitably distributing voting power among the security holders of such company, nothing in this paragraph shall authorize the Commission to require any change in the corporate structure or existence of any company which is not a holding company, or of any company whose principal business is that of a public-utility company. The Commission may by order revoke or modify any order previously made under this subsection, if, after notice and opportunity for hearing, it finds that the conditions upon which the order was predicated do not exist. Any order made under this subsection shall be subject to judicial review as provided in section 24.
(3) Section 11(e) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 provides:
Sec. 11.
Simplification of holding company systems.
* * *
(e) In accordance with such rules and regulations or order as the Commission may deem necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or consumers, any registered holding company or any subsidiary company of a registered holding company may, at any time after January 1, 1936, submit a plan to the Commission for the divestment of control, securities, or other assets, or for other action by such company or any subsidiary company thereof for the purpose of enabling such company or any subsidiary company thereof to comply with the provisions of subsection (b). If, after notice and opportunity for hearing, the Commission shall find such plan, as submitted or as modified, necessary to effectuate the provisions of subsection (b) and fair and equitable to the persons affected by such plan, the Commission shall make an order approving such plan; and the Commission, at the request of the company, may apply to a court, in accordance with the provisions of subsection (f) of section 18, to enforce and carry out the terms and provisions of such plan. If, upon any such application, the court, after notice and opportunity for hearing, shall approve such plan as fair and equitable and as appropriate to effectuate the provisions of section 11, the court as a court of equity may, to such extent as it deems necessary for the purpose of carrying out the terms and provisions of such plan, take exclusive jurisdiction and possession of the company or companies and the assets thereof, wherever located; and the court shall have jurisdiction to appoint a trustee, and the court may constitute and appoint the Commission as sole trustee, to hold or administer, under the direction of the court and in accordance with the plan theretofore approved by the court and the Commission, the assets so possessed.
(b)
Registered holding company, holding-company system, and associate company.
(1) Under section 5 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79e), any holding company may register by filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission a notification of registration, in such form as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or consumers. A holding company shall be deemed to be registered upon receipt by the Securities and Exchange Commission of such notification of registration. As used in this part, the term
registered holding company
means a holding company whose notification of registration has been so received and whose registration is still in effect under section 5 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. Under section 2 (a)(7) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79b (a)(7)), a corporation is a holding company (unless it is declared not to be such by the Securities and Exchange Commission), if such corporation directly or indirectly owns, controls, or holds with power to vote 10 percent or more of the outstanding voting securities of a public-utility company (i.e., an electric utility company or a gas utility company as defined by such act) or of any other holding company. A corporation is also a holding company if the Securities and Exchange Commission determines, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such corporation directly or indirectly exercises (either alone or pursuant to an arrangement or understanding with one or more other persons) such a controlling influence over the management or policies of any public-utility company (i.e., an electric utility company or a gas utility company as defined by such act) or holding company as to make it necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors or consumers that such corporation be subject to the obligations, duties, and liabilities imposed upon holding companies by the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. ch. 2C). An electric utility company is defined by section 2 (a)(3) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79b (a)(3)) to mean a company which owns or operates facilities used for the generation, transmission, or distribution of electrical energy for sale, other than sale to tenants or employees of the company operating such facilities for their own use and not for resale; and a gas utility company is defined by section 2 (a)(4) of such act (15 U.S.C. 79b (a)(4)), to mean a company which owns or operates facilities used for the distribution at retail (other than distribution only in enclosed portable containers, or distribution to tenants or employees of the company operating such facilities for their own use and not for resale) of natural or manufactured gas for heat, light, or power. However, under certain conditions the Securities and Exchange Commission may declare a company not to be an electric utility company or a gas utility company, as the case may be, in which event the company shall not be considered an electric utility company or a gas utility company.
(2) The term
holding company system
has the meaning assigned to it by section 2 (a)(9) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79b (a)(9)), and hence means any holding company, together with all its subsidiary companies (i.e., subsidiary companies within the meaning of section 2(a)(8) of such act (15 U.S.C. 79b (a)(8)), which in general include all companies 10 percent of whose outstanding voting securities is owned directly or indirectly by such holding company) and all mutual service companies of which such holding company or any subsidiary company thereof is a member company. The term
mutual service company
means a company approved as a mutual service company under section 13 of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79m). The term
member company
is defined by action 2 (a)(14) of such act (15 U.S.C. 79b (a)(14)), to mean a company which is a member of an association or group of companies mutually served by a mutual service company.
(3) The term
associate company
has the meaning assigned to it by section 2 (a)(10) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79b (a)(10)), and hence an associate company of a company is any company in
the same holding-company system with such company.
(c)
Majority-owned subsidiary company.
The term
majority-owned subsidiary company
is defined in section 1083 (c). Direct ownership by a registered holding company of more than 50 percent of the specified stock of another corporation is not necessary to constitute such corporation a majority-owned subsidiary company. To illustrate, if the H Corporation, a registered holding company, owns 51 percent of the common stock of the A Corporation and 31 percent of the common stock of the B Corporation, and the A Corporation owns 20 percent of the common stock of the B Corporation (the common stock in each case being the only stock entitled to vote), both the A Corporation and the B Corporation are majority-owned subsidiary companies.
(d)
System group.
The term
system group
is defined in section 1083 (d) to mean one or more chains of corporations connected through stock ownership with a common parent corporation, if at least 90 percent of each class of stock (other than (1) stock which is preferred as to both dividends and assets, and (2) stock which is limited and preferred as to dividends but which is not preferred as to assets but only if the total value of such stock is less than 1 percent of the aggregate value of all classes of stock which are not preferred as to both dividends and assets) of each of the corporations (except the common parent corporation) is owned directly by one or more of the other corporations, and if the common parent corporation owns directly at least 90 percent of each class of stock (other than stock preferred as to both dividends and assets) of at least one of the other corporations; but no corporation is a member of a system group unless it is either a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company. While the type of stock which must, for the purpose of this definition, be at least 90 percent owned may be different from the voting stock which must be more than 50 percent owned for the purpose of the definition of a majority-owned subsidiary company under section 1083(c), as a general rule both types of ownership tests must be met under section 1083(d), since a corporation, in order to be a member of a system group, must also be a registered holding company or a majority-owned subsidiary company.
(e)
Nonexempt property.
The term
nonexempt property
is defined by section 1083(e) to include—
(1) The amount of any consideration in the form of a cancellation or assumption of debts or other liabilities of the transferor (including a continuance of encumbrances subject to which the property was transferred). To illustrate, if in obedience to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission the X Corporation, a registered holding company, transfers property to the Y Corporation in exchange for property (not nonexempt property) with a fair market value of $500,000, the X Corporation receives $100,000 of nonexempt property, if for example—
(i) The Y Corporation cancels $100,000 of indebtedness owed to it by the X Corporation;
(ii) The Y Corporation assumes an indebtedness of $100,000 owed by the X Corporation to another company, the A Corporation; or
(iii) The Y Corporation takes over the property conveyed to it by the X Corporation subject to a mortgage of $100,000.
(2) Short-term obligations (including notes, drafts, bills of exchange, and bankers' acceptances) having a maturity at the time of issuance of not exceeding 24 months, exclusive of days of grace.
(3) Securities issued or guaranteed as to principal or interest by a government or subdivision thereof (including those issued by a corporation which is an instrumentality of a government or subdivision thereof).
(4) Stock or securities which were acquired from a registered holding company which acquired such stock or securities after February 28, 1938, or an associate company of a registered holding company which acquired such stock or securities after February 28, 1938, unless such stock or securities were acquired in obedience to an order of the Securities and Exchange Commission (as defined in section 1083 (a))
or were acquired with the authorization or approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission under any section of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, and are not nonexempt property within the meaning of section 1083(e) (1), (2), or (3).
(5) Money, and the right to receive money not evidenced by a security other than an obligation described as nonexempt property in section 1083 (e) (2) or (3). The term
the right to receive money
includes, among other items, accounts receivable, claims for damages, and rights to refunds of taxes.
(f)
Stock or securities.
The term
stock or securities
is defined in section 1083(f) for the purposes of part VI (section 1081 and following), subchapter O, chapter 1 of the Code. As therein defined, the term includes voting trust certificates and stock rights or warrants.

# Wash Sales of Stock or Securities
§ 1.1091-1
Losses from wash sales of stock or securities.
(a) A taxpayer cannot deduct any loss claimed to have been sustained from the sale or other disposition of stock or securities if, within a period beginning 30 days before the date of such sale or disposition and ending 30 days after such date (referred to in this section as the 61-day period), he has acquired (by purchase or by an exchange upon which the entire amount of gain or loss was recognized by law), or has entered into a contract or option so to acquire, substantially identical stock or securities. However, this prohibition does not apply (1) in the case of a taxpayer, not a corporation, if the sale or other disposition of stock or securities is made in connection with the taxpayer's trade or business, or (2) in the case of a corporation, a dealer in stock or securities, if the sale or other disposition of stock or securities is made in the ordinary course of its business as such dealer.
(b) Where more than one loss is claimed to have been sustained within the taxable year from the sale or other disposition of stock or securities, the provisions of this section shall be applied to the losses in the order in which the stock or securities the disposition of which resulted in the respective losses were disposed of (beginning with the earliest disposition). If the order of disposition of stock or securities disposed of at a loss on the same day cannot be determined, the stock or securities will be considered to have been disposed of in the order in which they were originally acquired (beginning with the earliest acquisition).
(c) Where the amount of stock or securities acquired within the 61-day period is less than the amount of stock or securities sold or otherwise disposed of, then the particular shares of stock or securities the loss from the sale or other disposition of which is not deductible shall be those with which the stock or securities acquired are matched in accordance with the following rule: The stock or securities acquired will be matched in accordance with the order of their acquisition (beginning with the earliest acquisition) with an equal number of the shares of stock or securities sold or otherwise disposed of.
(d) Where the amount of stock or securities acquired within the 61-day period is not less than the amount of stock or securities sold or otherwise disposed of, then the particular shares of stock or securities the acquisition of which resulted in the nondeductibility of the loss shall be those with which the stock or securities disposed of are matched in accordance with the following rule: The stock or securities sold or otherwise disposed of will be matched with an equal number of the shares of stock or securities acquired in accordance with the order of acquisition (beginning with the earliest acquisition) of the stock or securities acquired.
(e) The acquisition of any share of stock or any security which results in the nondeductibility of a loss under the provisions of this section shall be disregarded in determining the deductibility of any other loss.
(f) The word
acquired
as used in this section means acquired by purchase or by an exchange upon which the entire amount of gain or loss was recognized by law, and comprehends cases where the taxpayer has entered into a contract or option within the 61-day period to acquire by purchase or by such an exchange.
(g) For purposes of determining under this section the 61-day period applicable to a short sale of stock or securities, the principles of paragraph (a) of § 1.1233-1 for determining the consummation of a short sale shall generally apply except that the date of entering into the short sale shall be deemed to be the date of sale if, on the date of entering into the short sale, the taxpayer owns (or on or before such date has entered into a contract or option to acquire) stock or securities identical to those sold short and subsequently delivers such stock or securities to close the short sale.
(h) The following examples illustrate the application of this section:

# Example 1.
A, whose taxable year is the calendar year, on December 1, 1954, purchased 100 shares of common stock in the M Company for $10,000 and on December 15, 1954, purchased 100 additional shares for $9,000. On January 3, 1955, he sold the 100 shares purchased on December 1, 1954, for $9,000. Because of the provisions of section 1091, no loss from the sale is allowable as a deduction.

# Example 2.
A, whose taxable year is the calendar year, on September 21, 1954, purchased 100 shares of the common stock of the M Company for $5,000. On December 21, 1954, he purchased 50 shares of substantially identical stock for $2,750, and on December 27, 1954, he purchased 25 additional shares of such stock for $1,125. On January 3, 1955, he sold for $4,000 the 100 shares purchased on September 21, 1954. There is an indicated loss of $1,000 on the sale of the 100 shares. Since, within the 61-day period, A purchased 75 shares of substantially identical stock, the loss on the sale of 75 of the shares ($3,750−$3,000, or $750) is not allowable as a deduction because of the provisions of section 1091. The loss on the sale of the remaining 25 shares ($1,250−$1,000, or $250) is deductible subject to the limitations provided in sections 267 and 1211. The basis of the 50 shares purchased December 21, 1954, the acquisition of which resulted in the nondeductibility of the loss ($500) sustained on 50 of the 100 shares sold on January 3, 1955, is $2,500 (the cost of 50 of the shares sold on January 3, 1955) + $750 (the difference between the purchase price ($2,750) of the 50 shares acquired on December 21, 1954, and the selling price ($2,000) of 50 of the shares sold on January 3, 1955), or $3,250. Similarly, the basis of the 25 shares purchased on December 27, 1954, the acquisition of which resulted in the nondeductibility of the loss ($250) sustained on 25 of the shares sold on January 3, 1955, is $1,250 + $125, or $1,375. See § 1.1091-2.

# Example 3.
A, whose taxable year is the calendar year, on September 15, 1954, purchased 100 shares of the stock of the M Company for $5,000. He sold these shares on February 1, 1956, for $4,000. On each of the four days from February 15, 1956, to February 18, 1956, inclusive, he purchased 50 shares of substantially identical stock for $2,000. There is an indicated loss of $1,000 from the sale of the 100 shares on February 1, 1956, but, since within the 61-day period A purchased not less than 100 shares of substantially identical stock, the loss is not deductible. The particular shares of stock the purchase of which resulted in the nondeductibility of the loss are the first 100 shares purchased within such period, that is, the 50 shares purchased on February 15, 1956, and the 50 shares purchased on February 16, 1956. In determining the period for which the 50 shares purchased on February 15, 1956, and the 50 shares purchased on February 16, 1956, were held, there is to be included the period for which the 100 shares purchased on September 15, 1954, and sold on February 1, 1956, were held.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6926, 32 FR 11468, Aug. 9, 1967]
§ 1.1091-2
Basis of stock or securities acquired in “wash sales”.
(a)
In general.
The application of section 1091(d) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A purchased a share of common stock of the X Corporation for $100 in 1935, which he sold January 15, 1955, for $80. On February 1, 1955, he purchased a share of common stock of the same corporation for $90. No loss from the sale is recognized under section 1091. The basis of the new share is $110; that is, the basis of the old share ($100) increased by $10, the excess of the price at which the new share was acquired ($90) over the price at which the old share was sold ($80).

# Example 2.
A purchased a share of common stock of the Y Corporation for $100 in 1935, which he sold January 15, 1955, for $80. On February 1, 1955, he purchased a share of common stock of the same corporation for $70. No loss from the sale is recognized under section 1091. The basis of the new share is $90; that is, the basis of the old share ($100) decreased by $10, the excess of the price at which the old share was sold ($80) over the price at which the new share was acquired ($70).
(b)
Special rule.
For a special rule as to the adjustment to basis required under section 1091(d) in the case of wash sales involving certain regulated investment company stock for which
there is an average basis, see paragraph (e)(3)(iii) (
c
) and (
d
) of § 1.1012-1.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 11910, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7129, 36 FR 12738, July 7, 1971]
§ 1.1092(b)-1T
Coordination of loss deferral rules and wash sale rules (temporary).
(a)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided, in the case of the disposition of a position or positions of a straddle, the rules of paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply before the application of the rules of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1) Any loss sustained from the disposition of shares of stock or securities that constitute positions of a straddle shall not be taken into account for purposes of this subtitle if, within a period beginning 30 days before the date of such disposition and ending 30 days after such date, the taxpayer has acquired (by purchase or by an exchange on which the entire amount of gain or loss was recognized by law), or has entered into a contract or option so to acquire, substantially identical stock or securities.
(2) Except as otherwise provided, if a taxpayer disposes of less than all of the positions of a straddle, any loss sustained with respect to the disposition of that position or positions (hereinafter referred to as
loss position
) shall not be taken into account for purposes of this subtitle to the extent that the amount of unrecognized gain as of the close of the taxable year in one or more of the following positions—
(i) Successor positions,
(ii) Offsetting positions to the loss position, or
(iii) Offsetting positions to any successor position,
exceeds the amount of loss disallowed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. See § 1.1092(b)-5T relating to definitions.
(b)
Carryover of disallowed loss.
Any loss that is disallowed under paragraph (a) of this section shall, subject to any further application of paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the limitations under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, be treated as sustained in the succeeding taxable year. However, a loss disallowed in Year 1, for example, under paragraph (a)(1) of this section will not be allowed in Year 2 unless the substantially identical stock or securities, the acquisition of which caused the loss to be disallowed in Year 1, are disposed of during Year 2 and paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section do not apply in Year 2 to disallow the loss.
(c)
Treatment of disallowed loss
—(1)
Character.
If the disposition of a loss position would (but for the application of this section) result in a capital loss, the loss allowed under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to the disposition of the loss position shall be treated as a capital loss. In any other case, a loss allowed under paragraph (b) of this section shall be treated as an ordinary loss. For example, if the disposition of a loss position would, but for the application of paragraph (a) of this section, give rise to a capital loss, that loss when allowed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section will be treated as a capital loss on the date the loss is allowed regardless of whether any gain or loss with respect to one or more successor positions would be treated as ordinary income or loss.
(2)
Section 1256 contracts.
If the disposition of a loss position would (but for the application of this section) result in 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss, the loss allowed under paragraph (b) of this section with respect to the disposition of the loss position shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss regardless of whether any gain or loss with respect to one or more successor positions would be treated as 100 percent long-term or short-term capital gain or loss.
(d)
Exceptions.
(1) This section shall not apply to losses sustained—
(i) With respect to the disposition of one or more positions that constitute part of a hedging transaction;
(ii) With respect to the disposition of a loss position included in a mixed straddle account (as defined in paragraph (b) of § 1.1092(b)-4T); and
(iii) With respect to the disposition of a position that is part of a straddle consisting only of section 1256 contracts.
(2) Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply to losses sustained by a
dealer in stock or securities if such losses are sustained in a transaction made in the ordinary course of such business.
(e)
Coordination with section 1091.
Section 1092(b) applies in lieu of section 1091 to losses sustained from the disposition of positions in a straddle. See example (18) of paragraph (g) of this section.
(f)
Effective date.
The provisions of this section apply to dispositions of loss positions on or after January 24, 1985.
(g)
Examples.
This section may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the following positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year and none of the exceptions contained in paragraph (d) of this section apply.

# Example 1.
On December 1, 1985, A enters into offsetting long and short positions. On December 10, 1985, A disposes of the short position at an $11 loss, at which time there is $5 of unrealized gain in the offsetting long position. At year-end there is still $5 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting long position. Under these circumstances, $5 of the $11 loss will be disallowed for 1985 because there is $5 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting long position; the remaining $6 of loss, however, will be taken into account in 1985.

# Example 2.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that at year-end there is $11 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting long position. Under these circumstances, the entire $11 loss will be disallowed for 1985 because there is $11 of unrecognized gain at year-end in the offsetting long position.

# Example 3.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that at year-end there is no unrecognized gain in the offsetting long position. Under these circumstances, the entire $11 loss will be allowed for 1985.

# Example 4.
On November 1, 1985, A enters into offsetting long and short positions. On November 10, 1985, A disposes of the long position at a $10 loss, at which time there is $10 of unrealized gain in the short position. On November 11, 1985, A enters into a new long position (successor position) that is offsetting with respect to the retained short position but is not substantially identical to the long position disposed of on November 10, 1985. A holds both positions through year-end, at which time there is $10 of unrecognized gain in the successor long position and no unrecognized gain in the offsetting short position. Under these circumstances, the entire $10 loss will be disallowed for 1985 because there is $10 of unrecognized gain in the successor long position.

# Example 5.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (4), except that at year-end there is $4 of unrecognized gain in the successor long position and $6 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting short position. Under these circumstances, the entire $10 loss will be disallowed for 1985 because there is a total of $10 of unrecognized gain in both the successor long position and offsetting short position.

# Example 6.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (4), except that at year-end A disposes of the offsetting short position at a $2 loss. Under these circumstances, $10 of the total $12 loss will be disallowed because there is $10 of unrecognized gain in the successor long position.

# Example 7.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (4), and on January 10, 1986, A disposes of the successor long position at no gain or loss. A holds the offsetting short position until year-end, at which time there is $10 of unrecognized gain. Under these circumstances, the $10 loss will be disallowed for 1986 because there is $10 of unrecognized gain in an offsetting position at year-end.

# Example 8.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (4), except at year-end there is $8 of unrecognized gain in the successor long position and $8 of unrecognized loss in the offsetting short position. Under these circumstances, $8 of the total $10 realized loss will be disallowed because there is $8 of unrecognized gain in the successor long position.

# Example 9.
On October 1, 1985, A enters into offsetting long and short positions. Neither the long nor the short position is stock or securities. On October 2, 1985, A disposes of the short position at a $10 loss and the long position at a $10 gain. On October 3, 1985, A enters into a long position identical to the original long position. At year-end there is $10 of unrecognized gain in the second long position. Under these circumstances, the $10 loss is allowed because the second long position is not a successor position or offsetting position to the short loss position.

# Example 10.
On November 1, 1985, A enters into offsetting long and short positions. On November 10, 1985, there is $20 of unrealized gain in the long position and A disposes of the short position at a $20 loss. By November 15, 1985, the value of the long position has declined eliminating all unrealized gain in the position. On November 15, 1985, A establishes a second short position (successor position) that is offsetting with respect to the long position but is not substantially identical to the short position disposed of on November 10, 1985. At year-end there is no unrecognized
gain in the offsetting long position or in the successor short position. Under these circumstances, the $20 loss sustained with respect to the short loss position will be allowed for 1985 because at year-end there is no unrecognized gain in the successor short position or the offsetting long position.

# Example 11.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (10), except that the second short position was established on November 8, 1985, and there is $20 of unrecognized gain in the second short position at year-end. Since the second short position was entered into within 30 days before the disposition of the loss position, the second short position is considered a successor position to the loss position. Under these circumstances, the $20 loss will be disallowed because there is $20 of unrecognized gain in a successor position.

# Example 12.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (10), except that at year-end there is $18 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting long position and $18 of unrecognized gain in the successor short position. Under these circumstances, the entire loss will be disallowed because there is more than $20 of unrecognized gain in both the successor short position and offsetting long position.

# Example 13.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (10), except that there is $20 of unrecognized gain in the successor short position and no unrecognized gain in the offsetting long position at year-end. Under these circumstances, the entire $20 loss will be disallowed because there is $20 of unrecognized gain in the successor short position.

# Example 14.
On January 2, 1986, A enters into offsetting long and short positions. Neither the long nor the short position is stock or securities. On March 3, 1986, A disposes of the long position at a $10 gain. On March 10, 1986, A disposes of the short position at a $10 loss. On March 14, 1986, A enters into a new short position. On April 10, 1986, A enters into an offsetting long position. A holds both positions to year-end, at which time there is $10 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting long position and no unrecognized gain or loss in the short position. Under these circumstances, the $10 loss will be allowed because (1) the rules of paragraph (a)(1) of this section are not applicable; and (2) the rules of paragraph (a)(2) of this section do not apply, since all positions of the straddle that contained the loss position were disposed of.

# Example 15.
On December 1, 1985, A enters into offsetting long and short positions. On December 4, 1985, A disposes of the short position at a $10 loss. On December 5, 1985, A establishes a new short position that is offsetting to the long position, but is not substantially identical to the short position disposed of on December 4, 1985. On December 6, 1985, A disposes of the long position at a $10 gain. On December 7, 1985, A enters into a second long position that is offsetting to the new short position, but is not substantially identical to the long position disposed of on December 6, 1985. A holds both positions to year-end at which time there is no unrecognized gain in the second short position and $10 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting long position. Under these circumstances, the entire $10 loss will be disallowed for the 1985 taxable year because the second long position is an offsetting position with respect to the second short position which is a successor position.

# Example 16.
On September 1, 1985, A enters into offsetting positions consisting of a long section 1256 contract and short non-section 1256 position. No elections under sections 1256(d)(1) or 1092(b)(2)(A), relating to mixed straddles, are made. On November 1, 1985, at which time there is $20 of unrecognized gain in the short non-section 1256 position, A disposes of the long section 1256 contract at a $20 loss and on the same day acquires a long non-section 1256 position (successor position) that is offsetting with respect to the short non-section 1256 position. But for the application of this section, A's disposition of the section 1256 contract would give rise to a capital loss. At year-end there is a $20 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting short non-section 1256 position and no unrecognized gain in the successor long position. Under these circumstances, the entire $20 loss will be disallowed for 1985 because there is $20 unrecognized gain in the offsetting short position. In 1986, A disposes of the successor long non-section 1256 position and there is no unrecognized gain at year-end in the offsetting short position. Under these circumstances, the $20 loss disallowed in 1985 with respect to the section 1256 contract will be treated in 1986 as 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss.

# Example 17.
On January 2, 1986, A, not a dealer in stock or securities, acquires stock in X Corporation (X stock) and an offsetting put option. On March 3, 1986, A disposes of the X stock at a $10 loss. On March 10, 1986, A disposes of the put option at a $10 gain. On March 14, 1986, A acquires new X stock that is substantially identical to the X stock disposed of on March 3, 1986. A holds the X stock to year-end. Under these circumstances, the $10 loss will be disallowed for 1986 under paragraph (a)(1) of this section because A, within a period beginning 30 days before March 3, 1986 and ending 30 days after such date, acquired stock substantially identical to the X stock disposed of.

# Example 18.
On June 2, 1986, A, not a dealer in stock or securities, acquires stock in X Corporation (X stock). On September 2, 1986, A disposes of the X stock at a $100 loss. On September 15, 1986, A acquires new X stock that is substantially identical to the X stock disposed of on September 2, 1986, and an offsetting put option. A holds these straddle positions to year-end. Under these circumstances, section 1091, rather than section
1092(b), will apply to disallow the $100 loss for 1986 because the loss was not sustained from the disposition of a position that was part of a straddle. See paragraph (e) of this section.

# Example 19.
On November 1, 1985, A, not a dealer in stock or securities, acquires stock in Y Corporation (Y stock) and an offsetting put option. On November 12, 1985, there is $20 of unrealized gain in the put option and A disposes of the Y stock at a $20 loss. By November 15, 1985, the value of the put option has declined eliminating all unrealized gain in the position. On November 15, 1985, A acquires a second Y stock position that is substantially identical to the Y stock disposed of on November 12, 1985. At year-end there is no unrecognized gain in the put option or the Y stock. Under these circumstances, the $20 loss will be disallowed for 1985 under paragraph (a)(1) of this section because A, within a period beginning 30 days before November 12, 1985 and ending 30 days after such date, acquired stock substantially identical to the Y stock disposed of.

# Example 20.
Assume the facts are the same as in Example 19 and that on December 31, 1986, A disposes of the put option at a $40 gain and there is $20 of unrecognized loss in the Y stock. Under these circumstances, the $20 loss which was disallowed in 1985 also will be disallowed for 1986 under the rules of paragraph (a)(1) of this section because A has not disposed of the stock substantially identical to the Y stock disposed of on November 12, 1985.

# Example 21.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (19), except that on December 31, 1986, A disposes of the Y stock at a $20 loss and there is $40 of unrecognized gain in the put option. Under these circumstances, A will not recognize in 1986 either the $20 loss disallowed in 1985 or the $20 loss sustained with respect to the December 31, 1986 disposition of Y stock. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply to disallow the losses in 1986 since the substantially identical Y stock was disposed of during the year (and no substantially identical stock or securities was acquired by A within the 61 day period). However, paragraph (a)(2) of this section applies to disallow for 1986 the $40 of losses sustained with respect to the dispositions of positions in the straddle because there is $40 of unrecognized gain in the put option, an offsetting position to the loss positions.

# Example 22.
On January 2, 1986, A, not a dealer in stock or securities, acquires stock in X Corporation (X stock) and an offsetting put option. On March 3, 1986, A disposes of the X stock at a $10 loss. On March 17, 1986, A acquires new X stock that is substantially identical to the X stock disposed of on March 3, 1986. On December 31, 1986, A disposes of the X stock at a $5 gain, at which time there is $5 of unrecognized gain in the put option. Under these circumstances, the $10 loss sustained with respect to the March 3, 1986, disposition of X stock will be allowed under paragraph (a) (1) of this section since the substantially identical X stock acquired on March 17, 1986, was disposed of by year-end (and no substantially identical stock or securities were acquired by A within the 61 day period). However, $5 of the $10 loss will be disallowed under paragraph (a)(2) of this section because there is $5 of unrecognized gain in the put option, an offsetting position to the loss position.

# Example 23.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (22), except that on December 31, 1986, A disposes of the offsetting put option at a $5 loss and there is $5 of unrecognized gain in the X stock acquired on March 17, 1986. Under these circumstances, the $10 loss sustained with respect to the X stock disposed of on March 3, 1986, will be disallowed for 1986 under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The $5 loss sustained upon the disposition of the put option will be allowed because (1) the rules of paragraph (a)(1) of this section are not applicable; and (2) the rules of paragraph (a)(2) of this section allow the loss, since the unrecognized gain in the X stock ($5) is not in excess of the loss ($10) disallowed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

# Example 24.
On January 2, 1986, A, not a dealer in stock or securities, acquires 200 shares of Z Corporation stock (Z stock) and 2 put options on Z stock (giving A the right to sell 200 shares of Z stock). On September 2, 1986, there is $200 of unrealized gain in the put option positions and A disposes of the 200 shares of Z stock at a $200 loss. On September 10, 1986, A acquires 100 shares of Z stock (substantially identical to the Z stock disposed of on September 2, 1986), and a call option that is offsetting to the put options on Z stock and that is not an option to acquire property substantially identical to the Z stock disposed of on September 2, 1986. At year-end, there is $80 of unrecognized gain in the Z stock position, $80 of unrecognized gain in the call option position, and no unrecognized gain or loss in the offsetting put option positions. Under these circumstances, $40 of the $200 loss sustained with respect to the September 2, 1986 disposition of Z stock will be recognized by A in 1986 under paragraph (a) of this section, as set forth below. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies first to disallow $100 of the loss (
1/2
of the loss), since 100 shares of substantially identical Z stock (
1/2
of the stock) were acquired within the 61 day period. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section then applies to disallow that portion of the loss allowed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section ($200−$100 = $100) equal to the excess of the total unrecognized gain in the Z stock and call option positions (successor positions to the loss position) ($80 + $80 = $160) over the $100 loss disallowed under
paragraph (a)(1) of this section ($160−$100 = $60; $100−$60 = $40).

# Example 25.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (24), except that at year-end there is $110 of unrecognized gain in the Z stock position, $78 of unrecognized gain in the call option position, and $10 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting put option positions. Under these circumstances, $2 of the $200 loss sustained with respect to the September 2, 1986 disposition of Z stock will be allowed in 1986 under paragraph (a) of this section, as set forth below. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies first to disallow $100 of the loss (
1/2
of the loss) since 100 shares of substantially identical Z stock (
1/2
of the stock) were acquired within the 61 day period. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section then applies to disallow that portion of the loss allowed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section ($200−$100 = $100) equal to the excess of the total unrecognized gain in the Z stock and call option positions (successor positions to the loss position) and the put option positions (offsetting positions to the loss position) ($110 + $78 + $10 = $198) over the $100 loss disallowed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section ($198−$100 = $98; $100−$98 = $2).

# Example 26.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (24), except that at year-end there is $120 of unrecognized gain in the Z stock position, $88 of unrecognized gain in the call option position, and $10 of unrecognized loss in one of the offsetting put option positions. At year-end A disposes of the other put option position at a $10 loss. Under these circumstances, $2 of the $210 loss sustained with respect to the September 2, 1986 disposition of Z stock ($200) and the year-end disposition of a put option ($10) will be allowed in 1986 under paragraph (a) of this section, as set forth below. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section applies first to disallow $100 of the loss from the disposition of Z stock (
1/2
of the loss), since 100 shares of substantially identical Z stock (
1/2
of the stock) were acquired within the 61 day period. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section then applies to disallow that portion of the loss allowed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section ($210−$100 = $110) equal to the excess of the total unrecognized gain in the Z stock and call option positions (successor positions to the Z stock loss position, and offsetting positions to the put option loss position) ($120 + $88 = $208) over the $100 loss disallowed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section ($208−$100 = $108; $110−$108 = $2).

# Example 27.
On January 27, 1986, A enters into offsetting long (L1) and short (S1) positions. Neither L1 nor S1 nor any other positions entered into by A in 1986 are stock or securities. On February 3, 1986, A disposes of L1 at a $10 loss. On February 5, 1986, A enters into a new long position (L2) that is offsetting to S1. On October 15, 1986, A disposes of S1 at an $11 loss. On October 17, 1986, A enters into a new short position (S2) that is offsetting to L2. On December 30, 1986, A disposes of L2 at a $12 loss. On December 31, 1986, A enters into a new long position (L3) that is offsetting to S2. At year-end, S2 has an unrecognized gain of $33. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply since none of the positions were shares of stock or securities. However, all $33 ($10 + $11 + $12) of the losses sustained with respect to L1, S1 and L2 will be disallowed under paragraph (a)(2) because there is $33 of unrecognized gain in S2 at year-end. The $10 loss from the disposition of L1 is disallowed because S2 is or was an offsetting position to a successor long position (L2 or L3). The $11 loss from the disposition of S1 is disallowed because S2 is a successor position to S1. The $12 loss from the disposition of L2 is disallowed because S2 was an offsetting position to L2.
(Secs. 1092(b) and 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (68A Stat. 917, 95 Stat. 324, 26 U.S.C. 1092(b), 7805) and sec. 102(h) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (98 Stat. 625))
[T.D. 8007, 50 FR 3319, Jan. 24, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8070, 51 FR 1786, Jan. 15, 1986; 51 FR 3773, Jan. 30, 1986; 51 FR 5516, Feb. 14, 1986]
§ 1.1092(b)-2T
Treatment of holding periods and losses with respect to straddle positions (temporary).
(a)
Holding period
—(1)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the holding period of any position that is part of a straddle shall not begin earlier than the date the taxpayer no longer holds directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) an offsetting position with respect to that position. See § 1.1092(b)-5T relating to definitions.
(2)
Positions held for the long-term capital gain holding period (or longer) prior to establishment of the straddle.
Paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall not apply to a position held by a taxpayer for the long-term capital gain holding period (or longer) before a straddle that includes such position is established. The determination of whether a position has been held by a taxpayer for the long-term capital gain holding period (or longer) shall be made by taking into account the application of paragraph (a)(1) of this section. See section 1222(3) relating to the holding period for long-term capital gains.
(b)
Treatment of loss
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, loss on the disposition of one or more positions (
loss position
)
of a straddle shall be treated as a long-term capital loss if—
(i) On the date the taxpayer entered into the loss position the taxpayer held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) one or more offsetting positions with respect to the loss position; and
(ii) All gain or loss with respect to one or more positions in the straddle would be treated as long-term capital gain or loss if such positions were disposed of on the day the loss position was entered into.
(2)
Special rules for non-section 1256 positions in a mixed straddle.
Loss on the disposition of one or more positions (
loss position
) that are part of a mixed straddle and that are non-section 1256 positions shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss if—
(i) Gain or loss from the disposition of one or more of the positions of the straddle that are section 1256 contracts would be considered gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset;
(ii) The disposition of no position in the straddle (other than a section 1256 contract) would result in a long-term capital gain or loss; and
(iii) An election under section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (relating to straddle-by-straddle identification) or 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(II) (relating to mixed straddle accounts) has not been made.
(c)
Exceptions
—(1)
In general.
This section shall not apply to positions that—
(i) Constitute part of a hedging transaction;
(ii) Are included in a straddle consisting only of section 1256 contracts; or
(iii) Are included in a mixed straddle account (as defined in paragraph (b) of § 1.1092(b)-4T).
(2)
Straddle-by-straddle identification.
Paragraphs (a)(2) and (b) of this section shall not apply to positions in a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. See § 1.1092(b)-3T.
(d)
Special rule for positions held by regulated investment companies.
For purposes of section 851(b)(3) (relating to the definition of a regulated investment company), the holding period rule of paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to positions of a straddle. However, if section 1233(b) (without regard to sections 1233(e)(2)(A) and 1092(b)) would have applied to such positions, then for purposes of section 851(b)(3) the rules of section 1233(b) shall apply. Similarly, the effect of daily marking-to-market provided under § 1.1092(b)-4T(c) will be disregarded for purposes of section 851(b)(3).
(e)
Effective date
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the provisions of this section apply to positions in a straddle established after June 23, 1981, in taxable years ending after such date.
(2)
Special effective date for mixed straddle positions.
The provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall apply to positions in a mixed straddle established on or after January 1, 1984.
(f)
Examples.
Paragraphs (a) through (e) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the following positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year and none of the exceptions in paragraph (c) of this section apply.

# Example 1.
On October 1, 1984, A acquires gold. On January 1, 1985, A enters into an offsetting short gold forward contract. On April 1, 1985, A disposes of the short gold forward contract at no gain or loss. On April 10, 1985, A sells the gold at a gain. Since the gold had not been held for more than 6 months before the offsetting short position was entered into, the holding period for the gold begins no earlier than the time the straddle is terminated. Thus, the holding period of the original gold purchased on October 1, 1984, and sold on April 10, 1985, begins on April 1, 1985, the date the straddle was terminated. Consequently, gain recognized with respect to the gold will be treated as short-term capital gain.

# Example 2.
On January 1, 1985, A enters into a long gold forward contract. On May 1, 1985, A enters into an offsetting short gold regulated futures contract. A does not make an election under section 1256(d) or 1092(b)(2)(A). On August 1, 1985, A disposes of the gold forward contract at a gain. Since the forward contract had not been held by A for more than 6 months prior to the establishment of the straddle, the holding period for the forward contract begins no earlier than the time the straddle is terminated. Thus, the gain recognized on the closing of the gold
forward contract will be treated as short-term capital gain.

# Example 3.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (2), except that A disposes of the short gold regulated futures contract on July 1, 1985, at no gain or loss and the forward contract on November 1, 1985. Since the forward contract had not been held for more than 6 months before the mixed straddle was established, the holding period for the forward contract begins July 1, 1985, the date the straddle terminated. Thus, the gain recognized on the closing of the forward contract will be treated as short-term capital gain.

# Example 4.
On January 1, 1985, A enters into a long gold forward contract and on August 4, 1985, A enters into an offsetting short gold forward contract. On September 1, 1985, A disposes of the short position at a loss. Since an offsetting long position had been held by A for more than 6 months prior to the acquisition of the offsetting short position, the loss with respect to the closing of the short position will be treated as long-term capital loss.

# Example 5.
On March 1, 1985, A enters into a long gold forward contract and on July 17, 1985, A enters into an offsetting short gold regulated futures contract. A does not make an election under section 1256(d) or 1092(b)(2)(A). On August 10, 1985, A disposes of the long gold forward contract at a loss. Since the gold forward contract was part of a mixed straddle, and the disposition of no position in the straddle (other than the regulated futures contract) would give rise to a long-term capital loss, the loss recognized on the termination of the gold forward contract will be treated as 40 percent short-term capital loss and 60 percent long-term capital loss.

# Example 6.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (5), except that on August 11, 1985, A disposes of the short gold regulated futures contract at a gain. Under these circumstances, the gain will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain since the holding period rules of paragraph (a) of this section are not applicable to section 1256 contracts.

# Example 7.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (5), except that A enters into the long gold forward contract on January 1, 1985, and does not dispose of the long gold forward contract but instead on August 10, 1985, disposes of the short gold regulated futures contract at a loss. Under these circumstances, the loss will be treated as a long-term capital loss since A held an offsetting non-section 1256 position for more than 6 months prior to the establishment of the straddle. However, such loss may be subject to the rules of § 1.1092(b)-1T.
(Secs. 1092(b) and 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (68A Stat. 917, 95 Stat. 324, 26 U.S.C. 1092(b), 7805) and sec. 102(h) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (98 Stat. 625))
[T.D. 8007, 50 FR 3320, Jan. 24, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8070, 51 FR 1788, Jan. 15, 1986]
§ 1.1092(b)-3T
Mixed straddles; straddle-by-straddle identification under section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (Temporary).
(a)
In general.
Except as otherwise provided, a taxpayer shall treat in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section gains and losses on positions that are part of a mixed straddle for which the taxpayer has made an election under paragraph (d) of this section (hereinafter referred to as a
section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle
). No election may be made under this section for any straddle composed of one or more positions that are includible in a mixed straddle account (as defined in paragraph (b) of § 1.1092(b)-4T) or for any straddle for which an election under section 1256(d) has been made. See § 1.1092(b)-5T relating to definitions.
(b)
Treatment of gains and losses from positions included in a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle
—(1)
In general.
Gains and losses from positions that are part of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle shall be determined and treated in accordance with the rules of paragraph (b) (2) through (7) of this section.
(2)
All positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of on the same day.
If all positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of (or deemed disposed of) on the same say, gains and losses from section 1256 contracts in the straddle shall be netted, and gains and losses from non-section 1256 positions in the straddle shall be netted. Net gain or loss from the section 1256 contracts shall then be offset against net gain or loss from the non-section 1256 positions to determine the net gain or loss from the straddle. If net gain or loss from the straddle is attributable to the positions of the straddle that are section 1256 contracts, such
gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. If net gain or loss from the straddle is attributable to the positions of the straddle that are non-section 1256 positions, such gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss. This paragraph (b)(2) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year.

# Example 1.
On April 1, 1985, A enters into a non-section 1256 position and an offsetting section 1256 contract and makes a valid election to treat such straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On April 10, 1985, A disposes of the non-section 1256 position at a $600 loss and the section 1256 contract at a $600 gain. Under these circumstances, the $600 loss on the non-section 1256 position will be offset against the $600 gain on the section 1256 contract and the net gain or loss from the straddle will be zero.

# Example 2.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that the gain on the section 1256 contract is $800. Under these circumstances, the $600 loss on the non-section 1256 position will be offset against the $800 gain on the section 1256 contract. The net gain of $200 from the straddle will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain because it is attributable to the section 1256 contract.

# Example 3.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that the loss on the non-section 1256 position is $800. Under these circumstances, the $600 gain on the section 1256 contract will be offset against the $800 loss on the non-section 1256 position. The net loss of $200 from the straddle will be treated as short-term capital loss because it is attributable to the non-section 1256 position.

# Example 4.
On May 1, 1985, A enters into a straddle consisting of two non-section 1256 positions and two section 1256 contracts and makes a valid election to treat the straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On May 10, 1985, A disposes of the non-section 1256 positions, one at a $700 loss and the other at a $500 gain, and disposes of the section 1256 contracts, one at a $400 gain and the other at a $300 loss. Under these circumstances, the gain and losses from the section 1256 contracts and non-section 1256 positions will first be netted, resulting in a net gain of $100 ($400-$300) on the section 1256 contracts and a net loss of $200 ($700-$500) on the non-section 1256 positions. The net gain of $100 from the section 1256 contracts will then be offset against the $200 net loss on the non-section 1256 positions. The net loss of $100 from the straddle will be treated as short-term capital loss because it is attributable to the non-section 1256 positions.

# Example 5.
On December 30, 1985, A enters into a section 1256 contract and an offsetting non-section 1256 position and makes a valid election to treat such straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On December 31, 1985, A disposes of the non-section 1256 position at a $2,000 gain. A also realizes a $2,000 loss on the section 1256 contract because it is deemed disposed of under section 1256(a)(1). Under these circumstances, the $2,000 gain on the non-section 1256 position will be offset against the $2,000 loss on the section 1256 contract, and the net gain or loss from the straddle will be zero.

# Example 6.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (5), except that the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle was entered into on November 12, 1985, A realizes a $2,200 loss on the section 1256 contract, and on December 15, 1985, A enters into a non-section 1256 position that is offsetting to the non-section 1256 gain position of the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. At year-end there is $200 of unrecognized gain in the non-section 1256 position that was entered into on December 15. Under these circumstances, the $2,200 loss on the section 1256 contract will be offset against the $2,000 gain on the non-section 1256 position. The net $200 loss from the straddle will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss because it is attributable to the section 1256 contract. The net loss of $200 from the straddle will be disallowed in 1985 under the loss deferral rules of section 1092(a) because there is $200 of unrecognized gain in a successor position (as defined in paragraph (n) of § 1.1092(b)-5T) at year-end. See paragraph (c) of this section.
(3)
All of the non-section 1256 positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle disposed of on the same day.
This paragraph (b)(3) applies if all of the non-section 1256 positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of on the same day or if this paragraph (b)(3) is made applicable by paragraph (b)(5) of this section. In the case to which this paragraph (b)(3) applies, gain and loss realized from non-section 1256 positions shall be netted. Realized and unrealized gain and loss with respect to the section 1256 contracts of the straddle also shall be netted on that day. Realized net gain or loss from the non-section 1256 positions shall then be offset against net gain or loss from the section 1256 contracts to determine the net gain or loss
from the straddle on that day. Net gain or loss from the straddle that is attributable to the non-section 1256 positions shall be realized and treated as short-term capital gain or loss on that day. Net gain or loss from the straddle that is attributable to realized gain or loss with respect to section 1256 contracts shall be realized and treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. Any gain or loss subsequently realized on the section 1256 contracts shall be adjusted (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) to take into account the extent to which gain or loss was offset by unrealized gain or loss on the section 1256 contracts on that day. This paragraph (b)(3) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year.

# Example 1.
On July 20, 1985, A enters into a section 1256 contract and an offsetting non-section 1256 position and makes a valid election to treat such straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On July 27, 1985, A disposes of the non-section 1256 position at a $1,500 loss, at which time there is $1,500 of unrealized gain in the section 1256 contract. A holds the section 1256 contract at year-end at which time there is $1,800 of gain. Under these circumstances, on July 27, 1985, A offsets the $1,500 loss on the non-section 1256 position against the $1,500 gain on the section 1256 contract and realizes no gain or loss. On December 31, 1985, A realizes a $300 gain on the section 1256 contract because the position is deemed disposed of under section 1256(a)(1). The $300 gain is equal to $1,800 of gain less a $1,500 adjustment for unrealized gain offset against the loss realized on the non-section 1256 position on July 27, 1985, and the gain will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain.

# Example 2.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that on July 27, 1985, A realized a $1,700 loss on the non-section 1256 position. Under these circumstances, on July 27, 1985, A offsets the $1,700 loss on the non-section 1256 position against the $1,500 gain on the section 1256 contract. A realizes a $200 loss from the straddle on July 27, 1985, which will be treated as short-term capital loss because it is attributable to the non-section 1256 position. On December 31, 1985, A realizes a $300 gain on the section 1256 contract, computed as in example (1), which will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain.

# Example 3.
On March 1, 1985, A enters into a straddle consisting of two non-section 1256 positions and two section 1256 contracts and makes a valid election to treat such straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On March 11, 1985, A disposes of the non-section 1256 positions, one at a $100 loss and the other at a $150 loss, and disposes of one section 1256 contract at a $100 loss. On that day there is $100 of unrealized gain on the section 1256 contract retained by A. A holds the remaining section 1256 contract at year-end, at which time there is $150 of gain. Under these circumstances, on March 11, 1985, A will first net the gains and losses from the section 1256 contracts and net the gains and losses from the non-section 1256 positions resulting in no gain or loss on the section 1256 contracts and a net loss of $250 on the non-section 1256 positions. Since there is no gain or loss to offset against the non-section 1256 positions, the net loss of $250 will be treated as short-term capital loss because it is attributable to the non-section 1256 positions. On December 31, 1985, A realizes a $50 gain on the remaining section 1256 contract because the position is deemed disposed of under section 1256(a)(1). The $50 gain is equal to $150 gain less a $100 adjustment to take into account the $100 unrealized gain that was offset against the $100 loss realized on the section 1256 contract on March 11, 1985.

# Example 4.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (3), except that A disposes of the section 1256 contract at a $500 gain. As in example (3), A has a net loss of $250 on the non-section 1256 positions disposed of. In this example, however, A has net gain of $600 ($500 + $100) on the section 1256 contracts on March 11, 1985. Therefore, of the net gain from the straddle of $350 ($600-$250), $250 ($500-$250) is treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain because only $250 is attributable to the realized gain from the section 1256 contract. In addition, because none of the $100 unrealized gain from the remaining section 1256 contract was offset against gain or loss on the non-section 1256 positions, no adjustment is made under paragraph (b)(3) of this section and the entire $150 gain on December 31 with respect to that contract is realized on that date.
(4)
All of the section 1256 contracts of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle disposed of on the same day.
This paragraph (b)(4) applies if all of the section 1256 contracts of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of (or deemed disposed of) on the same day or if this paragraph (b)(4) is made
applicable by paragraph (b)(5) of this section. In the case to which this paragraph (b)(4) applies, gain and loss realized from section 1256 contracts shall be netted. Realized and unrealized gain and loss with respect to the non-section 1256 positions of the straddle also shall be netted on that day. Realized net gain or loss from the section 1256 contracts shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss to the extent of net gain or loss on the non-section 1256 positions on that day. Net gain or loss with respect to the section 1256 contracts that exceeds the net gain or loss with respect to the non-section 1256 positions of the straddle shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. See paragraph (b)(7) of this section relating to the gain or loss on such non-section 1256 positions. This paragraph (b)(4) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year.

# Example 1.
On December 30, 1985, A enters into a section 1256 contract and an offsetting non-section 1256 position and makes a valid election to treat such straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On December 31, 1985, A disposes of the section 1256 contract at a $1,000 gain, at which time there is $1,000 of unrealized loss in the non-section 1256 position. Under these circumstances, the $1,000 gain realized on the section 1256 contract will be treated as short-term capital gain because there is a $1,000 loss on the non-section 1256 position.

# Example 2.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that A realized a $1,500 gain on the disposition of the section 1256 contract. Under these circumstances, $1,000 of the gain realized on the section 1256 contract will be treated as short-term capital gain because there is a $1,000 loss on the non-section 1256 position. The net gain of $500 from the straddle will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain because it is attributable to the section 1256 contract.

# Example 3.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that A realized a $1,000 loss on the section 1256 contract and there is $1,000 of unrecognized gain on the non-section 1256 position. Under these circumstances, the $1,000 loss on the section 1256 contract will be treated as short-term capital loss because there is a $1,000 gain on the non-section 1256 position. Such loss, however, will be disallowed in 1985 under the loss deferral rules of section 1092(a) because there is $1,000 of unrecognized gain in an offsetting position at year-end. See paragraph (c) of this section.

# Example 4.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that the section 1256 contract and non-section 1256 position were entered into on December 1, 1985, and the section 1256 contract is disposed of on December 19, 1985, for a $1,000 gain, at which time there is $1,000 of unrealized loss on the non-section 1256 position. At year-end there is only $800 of unrealized loss in the non-section 1256 position. Under these circumstances, the result is the same as in example (1) because there was $1,000 of unrealized loss on the non-section 1256 position at the time of the disposition of the section 1256 contract.

# Example 5.
On July 15, 1985, A enters into a straddle consisting of two non-section 1256 positions and two section 1256 contracts and makes a valid election to treat such straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On July 20, 1985, A disposes of one non-section 1256 position at a gain of $1,000 and both section 1256 contracts at a net loss of $1,000. On the same day there is $200 of unrealized loss on the non-section 1256 position retained by A. Under these circumstances, realized and unrealized gain and loss with respect to the non-section 1256 positions is netted, resulting in a net gain of $800. Thus, $800 of the net loss on the section 1256 contracts disposed of will be treated as short-term capital loss because there is $800 of net gain on the non-section 1256 positions. In addition, the net loss of $200 from the straddle will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss because it is attributable to the section 1256 contract.
(5)
Disposition of one or more, but not all, positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle on the same day.
If one or more, but not all, of the positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are disposed of on the same day, and paragraphs (b) (3) and (4) of this section are not applicable (without regard to this paragraph (b)(5)), the gain and loss from the non-section 1256 positions that are disposed of on that day shall be netted, and the gain and loss from the section 1256 contracts that are disposed of on that day shall be netted. In order to determine whether the rules of paragraph (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section apply, net gain or loss from the section 1256 contracts disposed of shall then be offset against net
gain or loss from the non-section 1256 positions disposed of to determine net gain or loss from such positions of the straddle. If net gain or loss from the disposition of such positions of the straddle is attributable to the non-section 1256 positions disposed of, the rules prescribed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section apply. If net gain or loss from the disposition of such positions is attributable to the section 1256 contracts disposed of, the rules prescribed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section apply. If the net gain or loss from the netting of non-section 1256 positions disposed of and the netting of section 1256 contracts disposed of are either both gains or losses, the rules prescribed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall apply to net gain or loss from such non-section 1256 positions, and the rules prescribed in paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall apply to net gain or loss from such section 1256 contracts. However, for purposes of determining the treatment of gain or loss subsequently realized on a position of such straddle, to the extent that unrealized gain or loss on other positions was used to offset realized gain or loss on a non-section 1256 position under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, or was used to treat realized gain or loss on a section 1256 contract as short-term capital gain or loss under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, such amount shall not be used for such purposes again. This paragraph (b)(5) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year.

# Example 1.
On July 15, 1985, A enters into a straddle consisting of four non-section 1256 positions and four section 1256 contracts and makes a valid election to treat such straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On July 20, 1985, A disposes of one non-section 1256 position at a gain of $800 and one section 1256 contract at a loss of $300. On the same day there is $400 of unrealized net loss on the section 1256 contracts retained by A and $100 of unrealized net loss on the non-section 1256 positions retained by A. Under these circumstances, the loss of $300 on the section 1256 contract disposed of will be offset against the gain of $800 on the non-section 1256 position disposed of. The net gain of $500 is attributable to the non-section 1256 position. Therefore, the rules of paragraph (b)(3) of this section apply. Under the rules of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the net loss of $700 on the section 1256 contracts is offset against the net gain of $800 attributable to the non-section 1256 position disposed of. The net gain of $100 will be treated as short-term capital gain because it is attributable to the non-section 1256 position disposed of. Gain or loss subsequently realized on the section 1256 contracts will be adjusted to take into account the unrealized loss of $400 that was offset against the $800 gain attributable to the non-section 1256 position disposed of.

# Example 2.
Assume the facts are the same as in Example 1, except that A disposes of the non-section 1256 position at a gain of $300 and the section 1256 contract at a loss of $800, and there is $200 of unrealized net gain in the non-section 1256 positions retained by A. Under these circumstances, the gain of $300 on the non-section 1256 position disposed of will be offset against the loss of $800 on the section 1256 contract disposed of. The net loss of $500 is attributable to the section 1256 contract. Therefore, the rules of paragraph (b)(4) of this section apply. Under the rules of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, $500 of the net loss realized on the section 1256 contract will be treated as short-term capital loss because there is $500 of realized and unrealized gain in the non-section 1256 positions. The remaining net loss of $300 will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss because it is attributable to a section 1256 contract disposed of. In addition, A realizes a $300 short-term capital gain attributable to the disposition of the non-section 1256 position.

# Example 3.
(i) Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that the section 1256 contract was disposed of at a $500 gain. Under these circumstances, there is gain of $500 attributable to the section 1256 contact disposed of and a gain of $800 attributable to the non-section 1256 position. Therefore, the rules of both paragraphs (b) (3) and (4) of this § 1.1092(b)-3T apply.
(ii) Under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the realized and unrealized gains and losses on the section 1256 contracts are netted, resulting in a net gain of $100 ($500-$400). The section 1256 contract net gain does not offset the gain on the non-section 1256 position disposed of. Therefore, the gain of $800 on the non-section 1256 position disposed of will be treated as a short-term capital gain because there is no net loss on the section 1256 contracts.
(iii) Under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the realized and unrealized gains and losses on the non-section 1256 positions are netted, resulting in a non-section 1256 position net gain of $700 ($800-$100). Because there is no net loss on the non-section 1256 positions,
the $500 gain realized on the section 1256 contract will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain.
(6)
Accrued gain and loss with respect to positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle established on or before August 18, 2014.
The rules of this paragraph (b)(6) apply to all section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddles established on or before
August 18, 2014
; see § 1.1092(b)-6 for section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddles established after August 18, 2014. If one or more positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle were held by the taxpayer on the day prior to the day the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle is established, such position or positions shall be deemed sold for their fair market value as of the close of the last business day preceding the day such straddle is established. See §§ 1.1092(b)-1T and 1.1092(b)-2T for application of the loss deferral and wash sale rules and for treatment of holding periods and losses with respect to such positions. An adjustment (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) shall be made to any subsequent gain or loss realized with respect to such to such position or positions for any gain or loss recognized under this paragraph (b)(6). This paragraph (b)(6) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year.

# Example 1.
On January 1, 1985, A enters into a non-section 1256 position. As of the close of the day on July 9, 1985, there is $500 of unrealized long-term capital gain in the non-section 1256 position. On July 10, 1985, A enters into an offsetting section 1256 contract and makes a valid election to treat the straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. Under these circumstances, on July 9, 1985, A will recognize $500 of long-term capital gain on the non-section 1256 position.

# Example 2.
On February 1, 1985, A enters into a section 1256 contract. As of the close of the day on February 4, 1985, there is $500 of unrealized gain on the section 1256 contract. On February 5, 1985, A enters into an offsetting non-section 1256 position and makes a valid election to treat the straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. Under these circumstances, on February 4, 1985, A will recognize a $500 gain on the section 1256 contract, which will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain.

# Example 3.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (2) and that on February 10, 1985, there is $2,000 of unrealized gain in the section 1256 contract. A disposes of the section 1256 contract at a $2,000 gain and disposes of the offsetting non-section 1256 position at a $1,000 loss. Under these circumstances, the $2,000 gain on the section 1256 contract will be reduced to $1,500 to take into account the $500 gain recognized when the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle was established. The $1,500 gain on the section 1256 contract will be offset against the $1,000 loss on the non-section 1256 position. The net $500 gain from the straddle will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain because it is attributable to the section 1256 contract.

# Example 4.
On March 1, 1985, A enters into a non-section 1256 position. As of the close of the day on March 2, 1985, there is $400 of unrealized short-term capital gain in the non-section 1256 position. On March 3, 1985, A enters into an offsetting section 1256 contract and makes a valid election to treat the straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On March 10, 1985, A disposes of the section 1256 contract at a $500 loss and the non-section 1256 position at a $500 gain. Under these circumstances, on March 2, 1985, A will recognize $400 of short-term capital gain attributable to the gain accrued on the non-section 1256 position prior to the day the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle was established. On March 10, 1985, the gain of $500 on the non-section 1256 position will be reduced to $100 to take into account the $400 of gain recognized when the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle was established. The $100 gain on the non-section 1256 position will be offset against the $500 loss on the section 1256 contract. The net loss of $400 from the straddle will be treated as 60 percent long-term capital loss and 40 percent short-term capital loss because it is attributable to the section 1256 contract.
(7)
Treatment of gain and loss from non-section 1256 positions after disposition of all section 1256 contracts.
Gain or loss on a non-section 1256 position that is part of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle and that is held after all section 1256 contracts in the straddle are disposed of shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss to the extent attributable to the period when
the positions were part of such straddle. See § 1.1092(b)-2T for rules concerning the holding period of such positions. This paragraph (b)(7) may be illustrated by the following example. It is assumed that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) during the taxable years.

# Example:
On December 1, 1985, A, an individual calendar year taxpayer, enters into a section 1256 contract and an offsetting non-section 1256 position and makes a valid election to treat such straddle as a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. On December 31, 1985, A disposes of the section 1256 contract at a $1,000 loss. On the same day, there is $1,000 of unrecognized gain in the non-section 1256 position. The $1,000 loss on the section 1256 contract is treated as short-term capital loss because there is a $1,000 gain on the non-section 1256 position, but the $1,000 loss is disallowed in 1985 because there is $1,000 of unrecognized gain in the offsetting nonsection 1256 position. See section 1092(a) and § 1.1092(b)-1T. On July 10, 1986, A disposes of the non-section 1256 position at a $1,500 gain, $500 of which is attributable to the post-straddle period. Under these circumstances, $1,000 of the gain on the non-section 1256 position will be treated as short-term capital gain because that amount of the gain is attributable to the period when the position was part of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle. The remaining $500 of the gain will be treated as long-term capital gain because the position was held for more than six months after the straddle was terminated. In addition, the $1,000 short-term capital loss disallowed in 1985 will be taken into account at this time.
(c)
Coordination with loss deferral and wash sale rules of § 1.1092(b)-1T.
This section shall apply prior to the application of the loss deferral and wash sale rules of § 1.1092(b)-1T.
(d)
Identification required
—(1)
In general.
To elect the provisions of this section, a taxpayer must clearly identify on a reasonable and consistently applied economic basis each position that is part of the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle before the close of the day on which the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle is established. If the taxpayer disposes of a position that is part of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle before the close of the day on which the straddle is established, such identification must be made at or before the time that the taxpayer disposes of the position. In the case of a taxpayer who is an individual, the close of the day is midnight (local time) in the location of the taxpayer's principal residence. In the case of all other taxpayers, the close of the day is midnight (local time) in the location of the taxpayer's principal place of business. Only the person or entity that directly holds all positions of a straddle may make the election under this section.
(2)
Presumptions.
A taxpayer is presumed to have identified a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle by the time prescribed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section if the taxpayer receives independent verification of the identification (within the meaning of paragraph (d)(4) of this section). The presumption referred to in this paragraph (d)(2) may be rebutted by clear and convincing evidence to the contrary.
(3)
Corroborating evidence.
If the presumption of paragraph (d)(2) of this section does not apply, the burden shall be on the taxpayer to establish that an election under paragraph (d)(1) of this section was made by the time specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If the taxpayer has no evidence of the time when the identification required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section is made, other than the taxpayer's own testimony, the election is invalid unless the taxpayer shows good cause for failure to have evidence other than the taxpayer's own testimony.
(4)
Independent verification.
For purposes of this section, the following constitute independent verification:
(i)
Separate account.
Placement of one or more positions of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle in a separate account designated as a
section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle account
that is maintained by a broker (as defined in § 1.6045-1(a)(1)), futures commission merchant (as defined in 7 U.S.C. 2 and 17 CFR 1.3(p)), or similar person and in which notations are made by such person identifying all positions of the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle and stating the date the straddle is established.
(ii)
Confirmation.
A written confirmation from a person referred to in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, or from
the party from which one or more positions of the section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle are acquired, stating the date the straddle is established and identifying the other positions of the straddle.
(iii)
Other methods.
Such other methods of independent verification as the Commissioner may approve at the Commissioner's discretion.
(5)
Section 1092 (b)(2) identified mixed straddles established before February 25, 1985.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, relating to the time of identification of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle, a taxpayer may identify straddles that were established before February 25, 1985 as section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddles after the time specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section if the taxpayer adopts a reasonable and consistent economic basis for identifying the positions of such straddles.
(e)
Effective date
—(1)
In general.
The provisions of this section shall apply to straddles established on or after January 1, 1984.
(2)
Pre-1984 accrued gain.
If the last business day referred to in paragraph (b)(6) of this section is contained in a period to which paragraph (b)(6) does not apply, the gains and losses from the deemed sale shall be included in the first period to which paragraph (b)(6) applies.
(Secs. 1092(b)(1), 1092(b)(2) and 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (68A Stat. 917, 98 Stat. 627; 26 U.S.C. 1092(b)(1), 1092(b)(2), 7805))
[T.D. 8008, 50 FR 3325, Jan. 24, 1985; 50 FR 12243, Mar. 28, 1985; 50 FR 19344, May 8, 1985; T.D. 9627, 78 FR 46808, Aug. 2, 2013; 78 FR 64397, Oct. 29, 2013; T.D. 9678, 79 FR 41888, July 18, 2014]
§ 1.1092(b)-4T
Mixed straddles; mixed straddle account (temporary).
(a)
In general.
A taxpayer may elect (in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section) to establish one or more mixed straddle accounts (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section). Gains and losses from positions includible in a mixed straddle account shall be determined and treated in accordance with the rules set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. A mixed straddle account is treated as established as of the first day of the taxable year for which the taxpayer makes the election or January 1, 1984, whichever is later. See § 1.1092(b)-5T relating to definitions.
(b)
Mixed straddle account defined
—(1)
In general.
The term
mixed straddle account
means an account for determining gains and losses from all positions held as capital assets in a designated class of activities by the taxpayer at the time the taxpayer elects to establish a mixed straddle account. A separate mixed straddle account must be established for each separate designated class of activities.
(2)
Permissible designations.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a taxpayer may designate as a class of activities the types of positions that a reasonable person, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, would ordinarily expect to be offsetting positions. This paragraph (b)(2) may be illustrated by the following example. It is assumed in the example that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) during the taxable year, and that gain or loss from the positions is treated as gain or loss from a capital asset.

# Example:
B engages in transactions in dealer equity options on XYZ Corporation stock, stock in XYZ Corporation, dealer equity options on UVW Corporation stock, and stock in UVW Corporation. A reasonable person, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, would not expect dealer equity options on XYZ Corporation stock and stock in XYZ Corporation to offset any dealer equity options on UVW Corporation stock or any stock in UVW Corporation. If B makes the mixed straddle account election under this section for all such positions, B must designate two separate classes of activities, one consisting of transactions in dealer equity options on XYZ Corporation stock and stock in XYZ Corporation, and the other consisting of transactions in dealer equity options on UVW Corporation stock and stock in UVW Corporation, and maintain two separate mixed straddle accounts.
(3)
Positions that offset positions in more than one mixed straddle account.
Gains and losses from positions that a reasonable person, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, ordinarily would expect to be offsetting with respect to positions in more than one mixed straddle account shall be allocated among such accounts under a
reasonable and consistent method that clearly reflects income. This paragraph (b)(2) may be illustrated by the following example. It is assumed that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) during the taxable year, and that gain or loss from the positions is treated as gain or loss from a capital asset.

# Example:
B holds stock in XYZ Corporation, UVW Corporation, and RST Corporation, and options on a broad based stock index future. A reasonable person, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, would expect the stock in XYZ Corporation, UVW Corporation, and RST Corporation to be offsetting positions with respect to the options on the broad based stock index future. A reasonable person, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, would not expect that stock in XYZ Corporation, UVW Corporation, or RST Corporation would be offsetting positions with respect to each other. If B makes the mixed straddle account election under this section for all such positions, B must designate three separate classes of activities: one consisting of stock in XYZ Corporation; one consisting of stock in UVW Corporation; and one consisting of stock in RST Corporation, and maintain three separate mixed straddle accounts. Options on the broad based stock index future must be designated as part of all three classes of activities and gains and losses from such options must be allocated among such accounts under a reasonable and consistent method that clearly reflects income, because such options are a type of position expected to be offsetting with respect to the positions in all three mixed straddle accounts.
(4)
Impermissible designations
—(i)
Types of positions that are not offsetting included in designated class of activities.
If the Commissioner determines, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, that a class of activities designated by a taxpayer includes types of positions that a reasonable person, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, ordinarily would not expect to be offsetting positions with respect to other types of positions in the account, the Commissioner may—
(A) Amend the class of activities designated by the taxpayer and remove positions from the account that are not within the amended designated class of activities; or
(B) Amend the class of activities designated by the taxpayer to establish two or more mixed straddle accounts.
(ii)
Types of positions that are offsetting not included in designated class of activities.
If the Commissioner determines, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, that a designated class of activities does not include types of positions that are offsetting with respect to types of positions within the designated class, the Commissioner may—
(A) Amend the class of activities designated by the taxpayer to include types of positions that are offsetting with respect to the types of positions within the designated class and place such positions in the account; or
(B) Amend the class of activities designated by the taxpayer to exclude types of positions that are offsetting with respect to the types of positions that are not in the account.
(iii)
Treatment of positions removed from or included in the account.
(A) Positions removed from a mixed straddle account will be subject to the rules of taxation generally applicable to such positions. Thus, for example, if the positions removed from the account are offsetting positions with respect to other positions outside the account, the rules of §§ 1.1092(b)-1T and 1.1092(b)-2T apply.
(B) If the taxpayer acted consistently and in good faith in designating the class of activities of the account and in placing positions in the account, the rules of § 1.1092(b)-2T(b)(2) shall not apply to any mixed straddles resulting from the removal of such positions from the account and the Commissioner, at the Commissioner's discretion, may identify such mixed straddles as section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddles and apply the rules of § 1.1092(b)-3T(b) to such straddles.
(C) If positions are placed in a mixed straddle account, such positions shall be treated as if they were originally included in the mixed straddle account in which they are placed.
(5)
Positions included in a mixed straddle account that are not within the designated class of activities.
The Commissioner may remove one or more positions from a mixed straddle account if, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, the Commissioner determines that such positions are not within the designated class of activities of
the account. See paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section for rules concerning the treatment of such positions.
(6)
Positions outside a mixed straddle account that are within the designated class of activities.
If a taxpayer holds types of positions outside of a mixed straddle account (including positions in another mixed straddle account) that are within the designated class of activities of a mixed straddle account, the Commissioner may require the taxpayer to include such types of positions in the mixed straddle account, move positions from one account to another, or remove from the mixed straddle account types of positions that are offsetting with respect to the types of positions held outside the account. See paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section for the treatment of such positions.
(c)
Treatment of gains and losses from positions in a mixed straddle account
—(1)
Daily account net gain or loss.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section (relating to positions in a mixed straddle account before January 1, 1985) as of the close of each business day of the taxable year, gain or loss shall be determined for each position in a mixed straddle account that is disposed of during the day. Positions in a mixed straddle account that have not been disposed of as of the close of the day shall be treated as if sold for their fair market value at the close of each business day. Gains and losses for each business day from non-section 1256 positions in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determine
net non-section 1256 position gain or loss
for the account, and gains and losses for each business day from section 1256 contracts in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determine
net section 1256 contract gain or loss
for the account. Net non-section 1256 position gain or loss from the account is then offset against net section 1256 contract gain or loss from the same mixed straddle account to determine the
daily account net gain or loss
for the account. If daily account net gain or loss is attributable to the net non-section 1256 position gain or loss, daily account net gain or loss for such account shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss. If daily account net gain or loss is attributable to the net section 1256 contract gain or loss, daily account net gain or loss for such account shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. If net non-section 1256 position gain or loss and net section 1256 contract gain or loss are either both gains or both losses, that portion of the daily account net gain or loss attributable to net non-section 1256 position gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss and that portion of the daily account net gain or loss attributable to net section 1256 contract gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. An adjustment (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) shall be made to any subsequent gain or loss determined under this paragraph (c)(1) to take into account any gain or loss determined for prior business days under this paragraph (c)(1).
(2)
Annual account net gain or loss; total annual account net gain or loss.
On the last business day of the taxable year, the
annual account net gain or loss
for each mixed straddle account established by the taxpayer shall be determined by netting the daily account net gain or loss for each business day in the taxable year for each account. Annual account net gain or loss for each mixed straddle account shall be adjusted pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section. The
total annual account net gain or loss
shall be determined by netting the annual account net gain or loss for all mixed straddle accounts established by the taxpayer, as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Total annual account net gain or loss is subject to the limitations of paragraph (c)(4) of this section. See paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section for determining the annual account net gain or loss for mixed straddle accounts established for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1985.
(3)
Application of section 263(g) to mixed straddle accounts.
No deduction shall be allowed for interest and carrying charges (as defined in section 263(g)(2)) properly allocable to a mixed straddle account. Interest and carrying charges properly allocable to a mixed straddle account means the excess of—
(i) The sum of—
(A) Interest on indebtedness incurred or continued during the taxable year to purchase or carry any position in the account; and
(B) All other amounts (including charges to insure, store or transport the personal property) paid or incurred to carry any position in the account; over
(ii) The sum of—
(A) The amount of interest (including original issue discount) includible in gross income for the taxable year with respect to all positions in the account;
(B) Any amount treated as ordinary income under section 1271(a)(3)(A), 1278, or 1281(a) with respect to any position in the account for the taxable year; and
(C) The excess of any dividends includible in gross income with respect to positions in the account for the taxable year over the amount of any deduction allowable with respect to such dividends under section 243, 244, or 245.
For purposes of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the term
interest
includes any amount paid or incurred in connection with positions in the account used in a short sale. Any interest and carrying charges disallowed under this paragraph (c)(3) shall be capitalized by treating such charges as an adjustment to the annual account net gain or loss and shall be allocated pro rata between net short-term capital gain or loss and net long-term capital gain or loss.
(4)
Limitation on total annual account net gain or loss.
No more than 50 percent of total annual account net gain for the taxable year shall be treated as long-term capital gain. Any long-term capital gain in excess of the 50 percent limit shall be treated as short-term capital gain. No more than 40 percent of total annual account net loss for the taxable year shall be treated as short-term capital loss. Any short-term capital loss in excess of the 40 percent limit shall be treated as long-term capital loss.
(5)
Accrued gain and loss with respect to positions includible in a mixed straddle account.
Positions includable in a mixed straddle account that are held by a taxpayer on the day prior to the day the mixed straddle account is established shall be deemed sold for their fair market value as of the close of the last business day preceding the day such mixed straddle account is established. See §§ 1.1092(b)-1T and 1.1092(b)-2T for application of the loss deferral and wash sale rules and for treatment of holding periods and losses with respect to such positions. An adjustment (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) shall be made to any subsequent gain or loss realized with respect to such positions for any gain or loss recognized under this paragraph (c)(5).
(6)
Examples.
This paragraph (c) may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year, and that gain or loss from the positions is treated as gain or loss from a capital asset.

# Example 1.
A establishes a mixed straddle account for a class of activities consisting of transactions in stock of XYZ Corporation and dealer equity options on XYZ Corporation stock. Assume that A enters into no transactions in XYZ Corporation stock or dealer equity options on XYZ Corporation stock prior to December 26, 1985. Thus, the net non-section 1256 position gain or loss and the net section 1256 contract gain or loss for the account are zero for each business day except the following days:
Net non-section 1256 position gain or loss (XYZ corporation stock)
Net section 1256 contract gain or loss (XYZ corporation dealer equity options)
December 26, 1985
$1,000
$20,000
December 27, 1985
(9,000)
3,000
December 30, 1985
(5,000)
15,000
December 31, 1985
7,000
(2,000)
The daily account net gain or loss is as follows:
Daily account
net gain or loss
Treatment of daily account net gain or loss
Long-term
Short-term
December 26, 1985
$21,000
$1,000 short-term capital gain, $20,000 60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain
$12,000
$9,000
December 27, 1985
(6,000)
Short-term capital loss
(6,000)
December 30, 1985
10,000
60 percent long-term capital gain and 40 percent short-term capital gain
6,000
4,000
December 31, 1985
5,000
Short-term capital gain
5,000
The annual account net gain or loss is $18,000 of long-term capital gain and $12,000 of short-term capital gain. Because A has no other mixed straddle accounts, total annual account net gain or loss is also $18,000 long-term capital gain and $12,000 short-term capital gain. Because more than 50 percent of the total annual account net gain is long-term capital gain, $3,000 of the $18,000 long-term capital gain will be treated as short-term capital gain.

# Example 2.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that interest and carrying charges in the amount of $6,000 are allocable to the mixed straddle account and are capitalized under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Under these circumstances, $3,600 (($18,000/$30,000) × $6,000) of the interest and carrying charges will reduce the $18,000 long-term capital gain to $14,400 long-term capital gain and $2,400 (($12,000/$30,000) × $6,000) of the interest and carrying charges will reduce the $12,000 short-term capital gain to $9,600 short-term capital gain. Because more than 50 percent of the total annual account net gain is long-term capital gain, $2,400 of the $14,400 long-term capital gain will be treated as short-term capital gain.

# Example 3.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that A has a second mixed straddle account, which has an annual account net loss of $14,000 of long-term capital loss and $6,000 of short-term capital loss. Under these circumstances, the total annual account net gain is $4,000 ($18,000−$14,000) of long-term capital gain and $6,000 ($12,000−$6,000) of short-term capital gain. Because not more than 50 percent of the total annual account net gain is long-term capital gain, none of the long-term capital gain will be treated as short-term capital gain.

# Example 4.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (3), except that interest and carrying charges in the amount of $4,000 are allocable to the second mixed straddle account and are capitalized under paragraph (c)(3) of this section. Under these circumstances, $2,800 (($14,000/$20,000) × $4,000)) of the interest and carrying charges will increase the $14,000 long-term capital loss to $16,800 of long-term capital loss and $1,200 (($6,000/$20,000) × $4,000)) of the interest and carrying charges will increase the $6,000 short-term capital loss to $7,200 short-term capital loss. The total annual account net gain is $1,200 of long-term capital gain ($18,000 $16,800) and $4,800 ($12,000−$7,200) of short-term capital gain. Because not more than 50 percent of the total annual account net gain is long-term capital gain, none of the $1,200 long-term capital gain will be treated as short-term capital gain.

# Example 5.
Assume the facts are the same as in example (1), except that A has a second mixed straddle account, which has an annual account net loss of $20,000 of long-term capital loss and $15,000 of short-term capital loss. Under these circumstances, the total annual account net loss is $2,000 ($20,000−$18,000) of long-term capital loss and $3,000 ($15,000−$12,000) of short-term capital loss. Because more than 40 percent of the total annual account net loss is short-term capital loss, $1,000 of the short-term capital loss will be treated as long-term capital loss.

# Example 6.
A establishes two mixed straddle accounts. Account 1 has an annual account net gain of $5,000 short-term capital gain, which results from netting $5,000 of long-term capital loss and $10,000 of short-term capital gain. Account 2 has an annual account net loss of $2,000 long-term capital loss, which results from netting $3,000 of long-term capital loss against $1,000 of short-term capital gain. The total annual account net gain is $3,000 short-term capital gain, which results from netting the annual account net gain of $5,000 short-term capital gain from Account 1 against the annual account net loss of $2,000 long-term capital loss from Account 2.
(d)
Treatment of gains and losses from positions in a mixed straddle account established on or before December 31, 1984, in taxable years ending after December 31, 1984; pre-1985 account net gain or loss.
For mixed straddle accounts established on or before December 31, 1984, in taxable years ending after December 31, 1984, the taxpayer on December 31, 1984, shall determine gain or loss for each position in the mixed straddle account that has been disposed of on any day during the period beginning on the first day of the taxpayer's taxable year that includes December 31, 1984, and ending on December 31, 1984. Positions in the mixed straddle account that have not been disposed of as of the close of December 31, 1984, shall be treated as if sold for their fair market value as of the close of December 31, 1984. Gains and losses for such period
from non-section 1256 positions in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determine
pre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss
and gains and losses for such period from section 1256 contracts in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determine
pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss.
Pre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss is then offset against pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss from the same mixed straddle account to determine the
pre-1985 account net gain or loss
for the period. If the pre-1985 account net gain or loss is attributable to pre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss, the pre-1985 account net gain or loss from such account shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss. If the pre-1985 account net gain or loss is attributable to pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss, the pre-1985 account net gain or loss from such account shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. If pre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss and pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss are either both gains or losses, that portion of the pre-1985 account net gain or loss attributable to pre-1985 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss and that portion of the pre-1985 account net gain or loss attributable to pre-1985 net section 1256 contract gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. An adjustment (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) shall be made to any subsequent gain or loss realized with respect to such positions for any gain or loss recognized under this paragraph (d). To determine the annual account net gain or loss for such account, the pre-1985 account net gain or loss shall be treated as daily account net gain or loss for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. See paragraph (c)(5) of this section for treatment of accrued gain or loss with respect to positions includible in a mixed straddle account.
(e)
Treatment of gains and losses from positions in a mixed straddle account for taxable years ending on or before December 31, 1984
—(1)
In general.
For mixed straddle accounts established on or before December 31, 1984, in taxable years ending on or before December 31, 1984, the taxpayer at the close of the taxable year shall determine gain or loss for each position in the mixed straddle account that has been disposed of on any day during the period beginning on the later of the first day of the taxable year or January 1, 1984, and ending on the last day of the taxable year. Positions in the mixed straddle account that have not been disposed of as of the close of the last business day of the taxable year shall be treated as if sold for their fair market value at the close of such day. Gains and losses from non-section 1256 positions in each mixed straddle account shall be netted to determine
1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss
for the account and gains and losses from section 1256 contracts shall be netted to determine
1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss
for the account. The 1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss is then offset against 1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss from the same mixed straddle account to determine
annual account net gain or loss
for the account. If annual account net gain or loss is attributable to 1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss, annual account net gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss. If annual account net gain or loss is attributable to 1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss, annual account net gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. If 1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss and 1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss are either both gains or both losses, that portion of annual account net gain or loss attributable to 1984 net non-section 1256 position gain or loss shall be treated as short-term capital gain or loss and that portion of annual account net gain or loss attributable to 1984 net section 1256 contract gain or loss shall be treated as 60 percent long-term capital gain or loss and 40 percent short-term capital gain or loss. An adjustment (through an adjustment to basis or otherwise) shall be made to any subsequent gain or loss realized with respect to such positions for any gain or
loss recognized under this paragraph (e). See paragraph (c) (2) through (5) of this section relating to determining the total annual account net gain or loss, application of section 263(g) to mixed straddle accounts, the limitation on the total annual account net gain or loss, and treatment of accrued gain or loss with respect to positions includible in a mixed straddle account.
(2)
Pre-1984 accrued gain.
If the last business day referred to in paragraph (c)(5) of this section is contained in a period to which such paragraph (c)(5) does not apply, the gains and losses from the deemed sale shall be included in the first period to which paragraph (c)(5) applies.
(f)
Election
—(1)
Time for making the election.
Except as otherwise provided, the election under this section to establish one or more mixed straddle accounts for a taxable year must be made by the due date (without regard to automatic and discretionary extensions) of the taxpayer's income tax return for the immediately preceding taxable year (or part thereof). For example, an individual taxpayer on a calendar year basis must make the election by April 15, 1986, to establish one or more mixed straddle accounts for taxable year 1986. Similarly, a calendar year corporate taxpayer must make its election by March 15, 1986, to establish one or more mixed straddle accounts for 1986. If a taxpayer begins trading or investing in positions in a new class of activities during a taxable year, the election under this section with respect to the new class of activities must be made by the taxpayer by the later of the due date of the taxpayer's income tax return for the immediately preceding taxable year (without regard to automatic and discretionary extensions), or 60 days after the first mixed straddle in the new class of activities is entered into. Similarly, if on or after the date the election is made with respect to an account, the taxpayer begins trading or investing in positions that are includible in such account but were not specified in the original election, the taxpayer must make an amended election as prescribed in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section by the later of the due date of the taxpayer's income tax return for the immediately preceding taxable year (without regard to automatic and discretionary extensions), or 60 days after the acquisition of the first of the positions. If an election is made after the times specified in this paragraph (f)(1), the election will be permitted only if the Commissioner concludes that the taxpayer had reasonable cause for failing to make a timely election. For example, if a calendar year taxpayer holds few positions in one class of activities prior to April 15 of a taxable year, and the taxpayer greatly increases trading activity with respect to positions in the class of activities after April 15, then the Commissioner may conclude that the taxpayer had reasonable cause for failing to make a timely election and allow the taxpayer to make a mixed straddle account election for the taxable year. See paragraph (f)(2) of this section for rules relating to the manner for making these elections.
(2)
Manner for making the election
—(i)
In general.
A taxpayer must make the election on Form 6781 in the manner prescribed by such Form, and by attaching the Form to the taxpayer's income tax return for the immediately preceding taxable year (or request for an automatic extension). In addition, the taxpayer must attach a statement to Form 6781 designating with specificity the class of activities for which a mixed straddle account is established. The designation must describe the class of activities in sufficient detail so that the Commissioner may determine, on the basis of the designation, whether specific positions are includible in the mixed straddle account. In the case of a taxpayer who elects to establish more than one mixed straddle account, the Commissioner must be able to determine, on the basis of the designations, that specific positions are placed in the appropriate account. The election applies to all positions in the designated class of activities held by the taxpayer during the taxable year.
(ii)
Elections for new classes of activities and expanded elections.
Amended elections and elections made with respect to a new class of activities that the taxpayer has begun trading or investing in during a taxable year, shall be made on Form 6781 within the times prescribed in paragraph (f)(1) of this
section. A statement must be attached to the Form containing the information required in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, with respect to the new or expanded designated class of activities.
(iii)
Special rule.
The Commissioner may disregard a mixed straddle account election if the Commissioner determines, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, that the principal purpose for making the mixed straddle account election with respect to a class of activities was to avoid the rules of § 1.1092(b)-1T (a). For example, if a taxpayer holds stock that is not part of a straddle and that would generate a loss if sold or otherwise disposed of, and the taxpayer both acquires offsetting option positions with respect to the stock and makes a mixed straddle account election with respect to the stock and stock options near the end of a taxable year, the Commissioner may disregard the mixed straddle account election.
(3)
Special rule for taxable years ending after 1983 and before September 1, 1986.
An election under this section to establish one or more mixed straddle accounts for any taxable year that includes July 17, 1984, and any taxable year that ends before September 1, 1986 (or, in the case of a corporation, October 1, 1986), must be made by the later of—
(i) December 31, 1985, or
(ii) The due date (without regard to automatic and discretionary extensions) of the return for the taxpayer's taxable year that begins in 1984 if the due date of the taxpayer's return for such year (without regard to automatic and discretionary extensions) is after December 31, 1985.
The election shall be made by attaching Form 6781 together with a statement to the taxpayer's income tax return, amended return, or other appropriate form that is filed on or before the deadline determined in the preceding sentence. The attached statement must designate with specificity, in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the class of activities for which a mixed straddle account is established. For example, if a fiscal year taxpayer's return (for its taxable year ending September 30, 1985) is due (without regard to extensions) on January 15, 1986, and the taxpayer intends to obtain an automatic extension to file the return, the election under this section for any or all of the fiscal years ending in 1984, 1985 or 1986 must be made on or before January 15, 1986, with the request for an automatic extension. Similarly, a calendar year taxpayer (whether or not such taxpayer has obtained an automatic extension of time to file) who has filed its 1984 income tax return before October 15, 1985, without making a mixed straddle account election for either 1984 or 1985, or both, may make the mixed straddle account election under this section for either or for both of such years with an amended return filed on or before December 31, 1985. The mixed straddle account elected on this amended return will be effective for all positions in the designated class of activities even if the taxpayer had elected straddle-by-straddle identification as provided under § 1.1092(b)-3T for purposes of the previously filed 1984 income tax return. For taxable years beginning in 1984 and 1985, the election under this paragraph (f)(3) is effective for the entire taxable year. For taxable years beginning in 1983, an election shall be effective for that part of the year beginning after December 31, 1983, for which the election under § 1.1256(h)-1T or 1.1256(h)-2T is made. See § 1.6081-1T regarding an extension of time to file certain individual income tax returns.
(4)
Period for which election is effective.
For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1984, an election under this section, including an amendment to the election pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, shall be effective only for the taxable year for which the election is made. This election may be revoked during the taxable year for the remainder of the taxable year only with the consent of the Commissioner. An application for consent to revoke the election shall be filed with the service center with which the election was filed and shall—
(i) Contain the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of the taxpayer;
(ii) Show that the volume or nature of the taxpayer's activities has changed substantially since the election was made, and that the taxpayer's
activities no longer warrant the use of such mixed straddle account; and
(iii) Any other relevant information.
If a taxpayer's election for a taxable year is revoked, the taxpayer may not make a new election for the same class of activities under paragraph (f)(1) of this section during the same taxable year.
(g)
Effective date.
The provisions of this section apply to positions held on or after January 1, 1984.
(Secs. 1092(b)(1), 1092(b)(2) and 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (68A Stat. 917, 98 Stat. 627; 26 U.S.C. 1092(b)(1), 1092(b)(2), 7805))
[T.D. 8008, 50 FR 3329, Jan. 24, 1985; 50 FR 12243, Mar. 28, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8058, 50 FR 42013, Oct. 17, 1985]
§ 1.1092(b)-5T
Definitions (temporary).
The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 1.1092(b)-1T through 1.1092(b)-4T.
(a)
Disposing, disposes, or disposed.
The term
disposing, disposes,
or
disposed
includes the sale, exchange, cancellation, lapse, expiration, or other termination of a right or obligation with respect to personal property (as defined in section 1092(d)(1)).
(b)
Hedging transaction.
The term
hedging transaction
means a hedging transaction as defined in section 1256(e).
(c)
Identified straddle.
The term
identified straddle
means an identified straddle as defined in section 1092(a)(2)(B).
(d)
Loss.
The term
loss
means a loss otherwise allowable under section 165(a) (without regard to the limitation contained in section 165(f)) and includes a write-down in inventory.
(e)
Mixed straddle.
The term
mixed straddle
means a straddle—
(1) All of the positions of which are held as capital assets;
(2) At least one (but not all) of the positions of which is a section 1256 contract;
(3) For which an election under section 1256(d) has not been made; and
(4) Which is not part of a larger straddle.
(f)
Non-section 1256 position.
The term
non-section 1256 position
means a position that is not a section 1256 contract.
(g)
Offsetting position.
The term
offsetting position
means an offsetting position as defined in section 1092(c)(2).
(h)
Position.
The term
position
means a position as defined in section 1092(d)(2).
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Related person or flowthrough entity.
The term
related person or flowthrough entity
means a related person or flowthrough entity as defined in sections 1092(d)(4) (B) and (C) respectively.
(k)
Section 1256 contract.
The term
section 1256 contract
means a section 1256 contract as defined in section 1256(b).
(l) [Reserved]
(m)
Straddle.
The term
straddle
means a straddle as defined in section 1092(c)(1).
(n)
Successor position.
The term
successor position
means a position (“P”) that is or was at any time offsetting to a second position if—
(1) The second position was offsetting to any loss position disposed of; and
(2) P is entered into during a period commencing 30 days prior to, and ending 30 days after, the disposition of the loss position referred to in paragraph (n)(1) of this section.
(o)
Unrecognized gain.
The term
unrecognized gain
means unrecognized gain as defined in section 1092(a)(3)(A).
(p)
Substantially identical.
The term
substantially identical
has the same meaning as substantially identical in section 1091(a).
(q)
Securities.
The term
security
means a security as defined in section 1236(c).
(Secs. 1092(b) and 7805 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (68A Stat. 917, 95 Stat. 324, 26 U.S.C. 1092(b), 7805) and sec. 102(h) of the Tax Reform Act of 1984 (98 Stat. 625))
[T.D. 8007, 50 FR 3321, Jan. 24, 1985, as amended by T.D. 8070, 51 FR 1788, Jan. 15, 1986]
§ 1.1092(b)-6
Mixed straddles; accrued gain and loss associated with a position that becomes part of a section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddle that is established after August 18, 2014.
(a)
Treatment of unrealized gain or loss that arose before a position becomes part of an identified mixed straddle.
Except as otherwise provided, if one or more positions of a straddle that is an identified mixed straddle described in section 1092(b)(2)(A)(i)(I) (identified mixed straddle) were held by the taxpayer on the day prior to the day the identified
mixed straddle is established, any unrealized gain or loss on the day prior to the day the identified mixed straddle is established with respect to such position or positions is taken into account at the time, and has the character, provided by the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that would apply to the gain or loss if the identified mixed straddle were not established. Thus, if a non-section 1256 capital asset was held for the long-term capital gain holding period before the identified mixed straddle was established, any unrealized gain or loss on that asset on the day prior to the day the identified mixed straddle was established will be long-term capital gain or loss when that asset is sold or otherwise disposed of in a taxable transaction. Unrealized gain or loss on a section 1256 contract that accrued prior to the day the contract became part of an identified mixed straddle will be recognized no later than the last business day of the taxpayer's taxable year. For each position, unrealized gain or loss is the difference between the fair market value of the position at the close of the day before the day the identified mixed straddle is established and the taxpayer's basis in that position. See § 1.1092(b)-2T and paragraph (b) of this section for the treatment of holding periods with respect to such positions. Changes in value of the position or positions that occur on or after the identified mixed straddle is established are accounted for under the provisions of § 1.1092(b)-3T (other than § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(6)). The definitions in § 1.1092(b)-5T apply for purposes of this section.
(b)
Holding period after a position becomes part of an identified mixed straddle.
Section 1.1092(b)-2T(a)(1) applies to any position that becomes part of an identified mixed straddle, and the long-term or short-term character of any gain or loss on that position that arises on or after the day the position has become a position in an identified mixed straddle will be determined by beginning the taxpayer's holding period on the day after the identified mixed straddle ceases to exist.
(c)
Application of the loss deferral rules of section 1092(a).
When applying section 1092(a) and § 1.1092(b)-3T(b) (other than § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(6)) to any loss that arises while a position is part of an identified mixed straddle, the amount of unrecognized gain includes both unrecognized gains described in paragraph (a) of this section that accrued prior to the day the identified mixed straddle is established and unrecognized gains that arise on or after the day the identified mixed straddle identification was made for the position.
(d)
Examples.
The rules of this section may be illustrated by the following examples. It is assumed in each example that the positions described are the only positions held directly or indirectly (through a related person or flowthrough entity) by an individual calendar year taxpayer during the taxable year, and no successor positions are acquired or entered into. It is also assumed that gain or loss recognized on any position in the straddle would be capital gain or loss. The following examples assume that the identified mixed straddle is established after the applicability date of this section.

# Example 1.
(i)
Facts.
On January 13, Year 1, A enters into a section 1256 contract. As of the close of the day on January 15, Year 1, there is $500 of unrealized loss on the section 1256 contract. On January 16, Year 1, A enters into an offsetting non-section 1256 position and makes a valid election to treat the straddle as an identified mixed straddle. A continues to hold both positions of the identified mixed straddle on January 1, Year 2, and there are no further changes to the value of either position in Year 1.
(ii)
Analysis.
On the last business day of Year 1, A recognizes the $500 loss on the section 1256 contract that accrued prior to establishing the identified mixed straddle because the section 1256 contract is treated as sold on December 31, Year 1 (the last business day of the taxable year) under section 1256(a). The loss recognized in Year 1 will be treated as 60% long-term capital loss and 40% short-term capital loss. All gains and losses that arise on or after the identified mixed straddle is established are accounted for under the rules of §§ 1.1092(b)-2T (and paragraph (b) of this section), 1.1092(b)-3T(b) (other than § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(6)), and paragraph (c) of this section.

# Example 2.
(i)
Facts.
On December 3, Year 1, A purchases a non-section 1256 position for $100. As of the close of the day on January 22, Year 2, the non-section 1256 position has a fair market value of $500. On January 23, Year 2, A enters into an offsetting section 1256 contract and makes a valid election to treat the straddle as an identified mixed
straddle. On February 10, Year 2, A closes out the section 1256 contract at a $500 loss and disposes of the non-section 1256 position for $975.
(ii)
Analysis of pre-straddle gain.
A has $400 of unrealized short-term capital gain attributable to the non-section 1256 position prior to the day the identified mixed straddle was established. This $400 gain is recognized on February 10, Year 2, when the non-section 1256 position is disposed of. Under paragraph (a) of this section, the gain is short-term capital gain because that would have been the character of the gain if the non-section 1256 position had been disposed of on the day prior to establishing the identified mixed straddle.
(iii)
Analysis of straddle gain and loss.
On February 10, Year 2, the gain of $475 ($975 proceeds minus $500 fair market value on the day prior to entering into the identified mixed straddle) on the non-section 1256 position attributable to the identified mixed straddle period is offset by the $500 loss on the section 1256 contract. The net loss of $25 from the identified mixed straddle is recognized and treated as 60% long-term capital loss and 40% short-term capital loss because it is attributable to the section 1256 contract. See § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(4).

# Example 3.
(i)
Facts.
On January 3, Year 1, A purchases 100 shares of Index Fund for $1,000 ($10 per share). The Index Fund shares are actively traded personal property and are not section 1256 contracts. As of the close of the day on June 24, Year 2, the fair market value of 100 shares of Index Fund is $1,200. On June 25, Year 2, A enters into a short regulated futures contract (Futures Contract) referenced to the same index referenced by Index Fund. Futures Contract is a section 1256 contract and A makes a valid election to treat the shares of Index Fund and Futures Contract as an identified mixed straddle. On December 31, Year 2, the fair market value of A's shares of Index Fund is $1,520 and Futures Contract has lost $300. On January 10, Year 3, A closes out Futures Contract at a loss of $400 when the fair market value of 100 shares of Index Fund is $1,590. On November 20, Year 3, A disposes of all 100 shares of Index Fund for $1,600.
(ii)
Year 2 analysis.
On June 24, Year 2, A has held the Index Fund shares for longer than the long-term holding period, and the $200 of unrecognized gain on the Index Fund shares as of June 24, Year 2, will be characterized as long-term gain under paragraph (a) of this section when the gain is recognized. On December 31, Year 2, Futures Contract is marked to market under section 1256(a)(1). Under paragraph (a) of this section and § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(4), the loss on Futures Contract of $300 is netted with the $320 unrecognized gain on the Index Fund shares that arose while the identified mixed straddle was in place. Because this unrecognized gain is greater than the deemed realized section 1256 loss, the loss on Futures Contract is treated as a short-term capital loss. The loss, however, will be disallowed in Year 2 under paragraph (c) of this section and the loss deferral rules of section 1092(a) because the unrecognized gain in the Index Fund shares that arose while the identified mixed straddle was in place exceeds the deemed realized loss. Even if this gain were only $250 on December 31, Year 2, the deemed realized loss on Futures Contract would be disallowed because there is $200 of unrecognized gain in the Index Fund shares from the time A held the shares prior to establishing the identified mixed straddle.
(iii)
Year 3 analysis.
When A closes out the Futures Contract on January 10, Year 3, the entire amount of the section 1256 $300 loss that was disallowed on December 31, Year 2, continues to be deferred under paragraph (c) of this section. On November 20, Year 3, A recognizes $200 long-term capital gain from the pre-identified mixed straddle period, and $400 short-term capital gain, $390 of which arose during the identified mixed straddle period and $10 of which arose after the identified mixed straddle was closed. See § 1.1092(b)-2T(a)(1) and paragraph (b) of this section. In Year 3, A recognizes the $300 short-term capital loss from Futures Contract disallowed in Year 2 and the $100 loss accrued on Futures Contract in Year 3 because A no longer holds any positions that were part of an identified mixed straddle.

# Example 4.
(i)
Facts.
On March 1, Year 1, A purchases a 10-year U.S. Treasury Note (Note) at original issue for $100, which is the stated redemption price at maturity of Note. As of the close of the day on March 1, Year 3, Note has a fair market value of $105. On March 2, Year 3, A enters into a regulated futures contract (Futures Contract) that provides A with a short position in U.S. Treasury Notes and A makes a valid election to treat Note and Futures Contract as an identified mixed straddle. A closes her position in Futures Contract on April 15, Year 3, at a $2 loss. On April 15, Year 3, Note has a fair market value of $108. On December 31, Year 3, Note has a fair market value of $106. A holds Note until it matures on February 28, Year 10.
(ii)
Year 3 analysis.
A has $5 of unrealized gain attributable to Note prior to the day the identified mixed straddle was established. Because A acquired a long-term holding period in Note by March 1, Year 3, the $5 of gain will be characterized as long-term capital gain under paragraph (a) of this section when it is recognized. Under § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(4), when A closes out Futures Contract on April 15, Year 3, the loss of $2 on Futures Contract is netted with the gain of $3 on Note that arose while the identified mixed straddle was in place. Because this gain on Note exceeds the realized loss on Futures
Contract, the loss on Futures Contract is disallowed in Year 3 under paragraph (c) of this section. Further, under paragraph (c) of this section and section 1092(a)(1), on December 31, Year 3, the disallowed loss of $2 on Futures Contract cannot be recognized because it is less than the total unrecognized gain of $6 on Note on December 31, Year 3.
(iii)
Year 10 analysis.
When Note matures in Year 10, the $5 of unrecognized long-term capital gain that arose prior to the identified mixed straddle is recognized. Because A receives $100 upon the maturity of Note, A also recognizes a $5 long-term capital loss on Note, for a net gain of $0 (zero). In addition, the termination of all positions in the identified mixed straddle releases the $2 loss disallowed in Year 3 on Futures Contract. The loss on Futures Contract is treated as short-term capital loss in Year 10 under § 1.1092(b)-3T(b)(4).
(e)
Effective/applicability date.
The rules of this section apply to all section 1092(b)(2) identified mixed straddles established after August 18, 2014.
[T.D. 9678, 79 FR 41888, July 18, 2014]
§ 1.1092(c)-1
Qualified covered calls.
(a)
In general.
Section 1092(c) defines a straddle as offsetting positions with respect to personal property. Under section 1092(d)(3)(B)(i)(I), stock is personal property if the stock is part of a straddle that involves an option on that stock or substantially identical stock or securities. Under section 1092(c)(4), however, writing a qualified covered call option and owning the optioned stock is not treated as a straddle under section 1092 if certain conditions, described in section 1092(c)(4)(B), are satisfied. Section 1092(c)(4)(H) authorizes the Secretary to modify these conditions to carry out the purposes of section 1092(c)(4) in light of changes in the marketplace.
(b)
Term limitation
—(1)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an option is not a qualified covered call unless it is granted not more than 12 months before the day on which the option expires or satisfies term limitation and qualified benchmark requirements established by the Commissioner in guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (
see
§ 601.601(d)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this chapter).
(2)
Special benchmark rule for an option granted not more than 33 months before the day on which the option expires
—(i)
In general.
The 12-month limitation described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is extended to 33 months provided the lowest qualified benchmark is determined using the adjusted applicable stock price, as defined in § 1.1092(c)-4(e).
(ii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules set out in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer owns stock in Corporation X. Taxpayer writes an equity option with standardized terms on Corporation X stock through a national securities exchange with a term of 21 months. The applicable stock price for Corporation X stock is $100. The bench marks for a 21-month equity option with standardized terms with an applicable stock price of $100 will be based upon the adjusted applicable stock price. Using the table at § 1.1092(c)-4(e), the applicable stock price of $100 is multiplied by the adjustment factor 1.12, resulting in an adjusted applicable stock price of $112. Using the bench marks for an equity option with standardized terms with an adjusted applicable stock price of $112, the highest available strike price less than the adjusted applicable stock price is $110, and the second highest strike price less than the adjusted applicable stock price is $105. Therefore, a 21-month equity call option with standardized terms on Corporation X stock will not be deep in the money if the strike price is not less than $105.

# Example 2.
Taxpayer owns stock in Corporation Y. Taxpayer writes an equity option with standardized terms on Corporation Y stock through a national securities exchange with a term of 21 months. The applicable stock price for Corporation Y stock is $13.25. The bench marks for a 21-month equity option with standardized terms with an applicable stock price of $13.25 will be based upon the adjusted applicable stock price. Using the table at § 1.1092(c)-4(e), the applicable stock price of $13.25 is multiplied by the adjustment factor 1.12, resulting in an adjusted applicable stock price of $14.84. Using the bench marks for an equity option with standardized terms with an adjusted applicable stock price of $14.84, the highest available strike price less than the adjusted applicable stock price is $12.50. However, under section 1092(c)(4)(D), the lowest qualified bench mark can be no lower than 85% of the applicable stock price, which for Corporation Y stock is $12.61 (85% of the adjusted applicable stock price of $14.84). Thus, because the highest available strike price less than the adjusted applicable stock price for an equity option with standardized terms is lower than the lowest qualified bench mark under section 1092(c)(4)(D), the lowest strike price at which a qualified covered call option can be written is the next higher strike price, or
$15.00. Therefore, a 21-month equity call option with standardized terms on Corporation Y stock will not be deep in the money if the strike price is not less than $15.
(c)
Effective date.
This section applies to qualified covered call options entered into on or after July 29, 2002.
[67 FR 20899, Apr. 29, 2002]
§ 1.1092(c)-2
Equity options with flexible terms.
(a)
In general.
Section 1092(c)(4) provides an exception to the general rule that a straddle exists if a taxpayer holds stock and writes a call option on that stock. Under section 1092(c)(4), the ownership of stock and the issuance of a call option meeting certain requirements result in a qualified covered call, which is exempted from the general straddle rules of section 1092. This section addresses the consequences of the availability of equity options with flexible terms under the qualified covered call rules.
(b)
No effect on lowest qualified bench mark for standardized options.
The availability of strike prices for equity options with flexible terms does not affect the determination of the lowest qualified bench mark, as defined in section 1092(c)(4)(D), for an equity option with standardized terms.
(c)
Qualified covered call option status
—(1)
Requirements.
An equity option with flexible terms is a qualified covered call option only if—
(i) The option meets the requirements of section 1092(c)(4)(B) and § 1.1092(c)-1 (taking into account paragraph (c)(2) of this section);
(ii) The only payments permitted with respect to the option are a single fixed premium paid not later than 5 business days after the day on which the option is granted, and a single fixed strike price, as defined in § 1.1092(c)-4(d), that is payable entirely at (or within 5 business days of) exercise;
(iii) An equity option with standardized terms is outstanding for the underlying equity; and
(iv) The underlying security is stock in a single corporation.
(2)
Lowest qualified bench mark
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of determining whether an equity option with flexible terms is deep in the money within the meaning of section 1092(c)(4)(C), the lowest qualified bench mark under section 1092(c)(4)(D) is the same for an equity option with flexible terms as the lowest qualified bench mark for an equity option with standardized terms on the same stock having the same applicable stock price.
(ii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rules set out in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer owns stock in Corporation X. Taxpayer writes an equity call option with flexible terms on Corporation X stock through a national securities exchange for a term of not more than 12 months. The applicable stock price for Corporation X stock is $73.75. Using the bench marks for an equity option with standardized terms with an applicable stock price of $73.75, the highest available strike price less than the applicable stock price is $70, and the second highest strike price less than the applicable stock price is $65. Therefore, an equity call option with flexible terms on Corporation X stock with a term of 90 days or less will not be deep in the money if the strike price is not less than $70. If the term is greater than 90 days, an equity call option with flexible terms on Corporation X will not be deep in the money if the strike price is not less than $65.

# Example 2.
Taxpayer owns stock in Corporation Y. Taxpayer writes a 9-month equity call option with flexible terms on Corporation Y stock through a national securities exchange. The applicable stock price for Corporation Y stock is $14.75. Using the bench marks for an equity option with standardized terms with an applicable stock price of $14.75, the highest available strike price less than the applicable stock price is $12.50. However, under section 1092(c)(4)(D), the lowest qualified bench mark can be no lower than 85% of the applicable stock price, which for Corporation Y stock is $12.54. Thus, because the highest available strike price less than the applicable stock price for an equity option with standardized terms is lower than the lowest qualified bench mark under section 1092(c)(4)(D), the lowest strike price at which a qualified covered call option can be written is the next higher strike price, or $15.00. This $15.00 strike price requirement for a qualified covered call option applies to equity options with flexible terms, equity options with standardized terms, and qualifying over-the-counter options.

# Example 3.
Taxpayer owns stock in Corporation Z. On May 8, 2003, Taxpayer writes a 21-month equity call option with flexible terms on Corporation Z stock through a national securities exchange. The applicable stock price for Corporation Z stock is $100.
The bench marks for a 21-month equity option with standardized terms with an applicable stock price of $100 will be based upon the adjusted applicable stock price. Using the table at § 1.1092(c)-4(e), the applicable stock price of $100 is multiplied by the adjustment factor 1.12, resulting in an adjusted applicable stock price of $112. The highest available strike price less than the adjusted applicable stock price is $110, and the second highest strike price less than the adjusted applicable stock price is $105. Therefore, a 21-month equity call option with flexible terms on Corporation Z stock will not be deep in the money if the strike price is not less than $105.
(d)
Effective date
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, this section applies to equity options with flexible terms entered into on or after January 25, 2000.
(2)
Effective date for paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section apply to equity options with flexible terms entered into on or after July 29, 2002.
[T.D. 8866, 65 FR 3813, Jan. 25, 2000; Redesignated at 67 FR 20899, Apr. 29, 2002]
§ 1.1092(c)-3
Qualifying over-the-counter options.
(a)
In general.
Under section 1092(c)(4)(B)(i), an equity option is not a qualified covered call option unless it is traded on a national securities exchange that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other market that the Secretary determines has rules adequate to carry out the purposes of section 1092(c)(4). In accordance with section 1092(c)(4)(H), this requirement is modified as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Qualified covered call option status.
A qualifying over-the-counter option, as defined in § 1.1092(c)-4(c), is a qualified covered call option if it meets the requirements of §§ 1.1092(c)-1 and 1.1092(c)-2(c) after using the language “qualifying over-the-counter option” in place of “equity option with flexible terms”. For purposes of this paragraph (b), a qualifying over-the-counter option is deemed to satisfy the requirements of section 1092(c)(4)(B)(i).
(c)
Effective date.
This section applies to qualifying over-the-counter options entered into on or after July 29, 2002.
[67 FR 20900, Apr. 29, 2002]
§ 1.1092(c)-4
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 1.1092(c)-1 through 1.1092(c)-3:
(a)
Equity option with flexible terms
means an equity option—
(1) That is described in any of the following Securities Exchange Act Releases—
(i) Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Changes and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendments by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. and the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Flexible Equity Options on Specified Equity Securities, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-36841 (Feb. 21, 1996); or
(ii) Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Changes and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendment Nos. 2 and 3 to the Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Flexible Equity Options on Specified Equity Securities, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-37336 (June 27, 1996); or
(iii) Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendment Nos. 2, 4 and 5 to the Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Flexible Exchange Traded Equity and Index Options, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-39549 (Jan. 23, 1998); or
(iv) Any changes to the Security Exchange Act Releases described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section that are approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission; or
(2) That is traded on any national securities exchange that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (other than those described in the Security Exchange Act Releases set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section) and is—
(i) Substantially identical to the equity options described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(b)
Equity option with standardized terms
means an equity option—
(1) That is traded on a national securities exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(2) That, on the date the option is written, expires on the Saturday following the third Friday of the month of expiration;
(3) That has a strike price that is set at a uniform minimum strike price interval, that is established by the applicable national securities exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and that is not less than $1.00; and
(4) That has stock in a single corporation as its underlying security.
(c)
Qualifying over-the-counter option
means an equity option that—
(1) Is not traded on a national securities exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and
(2) Is entered into with—
(i) A broker-dealer, acting as principal or agent, who is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under section 15 of the Securities Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a through 78mm) and the regulations thereunder and who must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of 17 CFR 240.17a-3; or
(ii) An alternative trading system under 17 CFR 242.300 through 17 CFR 242.303; or
(iii) A person, acting as principal or agent, who must comply with the recordkeeping requirements for securities transactions described in 12 CFR 12.3, 12 CFR 208.34, or 12 CFR 344.4.
(d)
Single fixed strike price
means a strike price that is fixed, determinable, and stated as a dollar amount on the date the option is written. An option will not fail to have a single fixed strike price if, after the date the option is written, the strike price is adjusted to account for the effects of a dividend, stock dividend, stock distribution, stock split, reverse stock split, rights offering, distribution, reorganization, recapitalization, or reclassification with respect to the underlying security, or a merger, consolidation, dissolution, or liquidation of the issuer of the underlying security.
(e)
Adjusted applicable stock price
means the applicable stock price, as defined in section 1092(c)(4)(G), adjusted for time. To determine the adjusted applicable stock price, the applicable stock price, which is determined in accordance with the rules in section 1092(c)(4)(G), is multiplied by an adjustment factor. The adjustment factor table is as follows:
Option term (in months)
Greater than
Not more than
Adjustment factor
12
15
1.08
15
18
1.10
18
21
1.12
21
24
1.14
24
27
1.16
27
30
1.18
30
33
1.20
(f)
Securities Exchange Act Release
means a release issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. To determine identifying information for releases referenced in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, including release titles, identification numbers, and issue dates, contact the Office of the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. To obtain a copy of a Securities Exchange Act Release, submit a written request, including the specific release identification number, title, and issue date, to Securities and Exchange Commission, Attention Public Reference, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549.
(g)
Effective dates.
(1) Except for paragraph (a)(2) of this section, paragraph (a) of this section applies to equity options with flexible terms entered into on or after January 25, 2000. Paragraph (a)(2) of this section applies to equity options with flexible terms entered into on or after July 29, 2002.
(2) Paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section apply to equity options entered into on or after July 29, 2002.
(3) Paragraph (f) of this section applies to equity options entered into on or after January 25, 2000.
[67 FR 20900, 20901, Apr. 29, 2002]
§ 1.1092(d)-1
Definitions and special rules.
(a)
Actively traded.
Actively traded personal property includes any personal property for which there is an established financial market.
(b)
Established financial market
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of this section, an established financial market includes—
(i) A national securities exchange that is registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f);
(ii) An interdealer quotation system sponsored by a national securities association registered under section 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
(iii) A domestic board of trade designated as a contract market by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission;
(iv) A foreign securities exchange or board of trade that satisfies analogous regulatory requirements under the law of the jurisdiction in which it is organized (such as the London International Financial Futures Exchange, the Marche a Terme International de France, the International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, Limited, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, and the Tokyo Stock Exchange);
(v) An interbank market;
(vi) An interdealer market (as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section); and
(vii) Solely with respect to a debt instrument, a debt market (as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section).
(2)
Definitions
—(i)
Interdealer market.
An interdealer market is characterized by a system of general circulation (including a computer listing disseminated to subscribing brokers, dealers, or traders) that provides a reasonable basis to determine fair market value by disseminating either recent price quotations (including rates, yields, or other pricing information) of one or more identified brokers, dealers, or traders or actual prices (including rates, yields, or other pricing information) of recent transactions. An interdealer market does not include a directory or listing of brokers, dealers, or traders for specific contracts (such as yellow sheets) that provides neither price quotations nor actual prices of recent transactions.
(ii)
Debt market.
A debt market exists with respect to a debt instrument if price quotations for the instrument are readily available from brokers, dealers, or traders. A debt market does not exist with respect to a debt instrument if—
(A) No other outstanding debt instrument of the issuer (or of any person who guarantees the debt instrument) is traded on an established financial market described in paragraph (b)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), or (vi) of this section (other traded debt);
(B) The original stated principal amount of the issue that includes the debt instrument does not exceed $25 million;
(C) The conditions and covenants relating to the issuer's performance with respect to the debt instrument are materially less restrictive than the conditions and covenants included in all of the issuer's other traded debt (e.g., the debt instrument is subject to an economically significant subordination provision whereas the issuer's other traded debt is senior); or
(D) The maturity date of the debt instrument is more than 3 years after the latest maturity date of the issuer's other traded debt.
(c)
Notional principal contracts.
For purposes of section 1092(d)—
(1) A notional principal contract (as defined in § 1.446-3(c)(1)) constitutes personal property of a type that is actively traded if contracts based on the same or substantially similar specified indices are purchased, sold, or entered into on an established financial market within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section; and
(2) The rights and obligations of a party to a notional principal contract are rights and obligations with respect to personal property and constitute an interest in personal property.
(d)
Debt instrument linked to the value of personal property.
If a taxpayer is the obligor under a debt instrument one or more payments on which are linked to the value of personal property or a position with respect to personal property, then the taxpayer's obligation under the debt instrument is a position with respect to personal property and may be part of a straddle.
(e)
Effective/applicability dates
—(1) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to positions entered into on or after October 14, 1993.
(2) Paragraph (c) of this section applies to positions entered into on or after July 8, 1991.
(3) Paragraph (d) of this section applies to straddles established on or after January 17, 2001.
[T.D. 8491, 58 FR 53135, Oct. 14, 1993, as amended by T.D. 9635, 78 FR 54569, Sept. 5, 2013; T.D. 9691, 79 FR 51091, Aug. 27, 2014]
§ 1.1092(d)-2
Personal property.
(a)
Special rules for stock.
Under section 1092(d)(3)(B), personal property includes any stock that is part of a straddle, at least one of the offsetting positions of which is a position with respect to substantially similar or related property (other than stock). For purposes of this rule, the term
substantially similar or related property
is defined in § 1.246-5 (other than § 1.246-5(b)(3)). The rule in § 1.246-5(c)(6) does not narrow the related party rule in section 1092(d)(4).
(b)
Effective date
—(1)
In general.
This section applies to positions established on or after March 17, 1995.
(2)
Special rule for certain straddles.
This section applies to positions established after March 1, 1984, if the taxpayer substantially diminished its risk of loss by holding substantially similar or related property involving the following types of transactions—
(i) Holding offsetting positions consisting of stock and a convertible debenture of the same corporation where the price movements of the two positions are related; or
(ii) Holding a short position in a stock index regulated futures contract (or alternatively an option on such a regulated futures contract or an option on the stock index) and stock in an investment company whose principal holdings mimic the performance of the stocks included in the stock index (or alternatively a portfolio of stocks whose performance mimics the performance of the stocks included in the stock index).
[T.D. 8590, 60 FR 14641, Mar. 20, 1995]

# capital gains and losses

# Treatment of Capital Gains
§ 1.1201-1
Alternative tax.
(a)
Corporations
—(1)
In general.
(i) If for any taxable year a corporation has net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) (as defined in section 1222(11)) section 1201(a) imposes an alternative tax in lieu of the tax imposed by sections 11 and 511, but only if such alternative tax is less than the tax imposed by sections 11 and 511. The alternative tax is not in lieu of the personal holding company tax imposed by section 541 or of any other tax not specifically set forth in section 1201(a).
(ii) In the case of an insurance company, the alternative tax imposed by section 1201(a) is also in lieu of the tax imposed by sections 821 (a) or (c) and 831 (a), except that for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1963, the reference to section 821 (a) or (c) is to be read as reference to section 821 (a)(1) or (b). For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1954, and before January 1, 1958, the alternative tax imposed by section 1201(a) shall also be in lieu of the tax imposed by section 802(a), as amended by the Life Insurance Company Tax Act for 1955 (70 Stat. 38), if such alternative tax is less than the tax imposed by such section. See section 802(e), as added by the Life Insurance Company Tax Act for 1955 (70 Stat. 39). However, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1958, and before January 1, 1962, section 802(a)(2), as amended by the Life Insurance Company Income Tax Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 115), imposes a separate tax equal to 25 percent of the amount by which the net long-term capital gain of any life insurance company (as defined in section 801(a) and paragraph (b) of § 1.801-3) exceeds its net short-term capital loss. See paragraph (f) of § 1.802-3. For alternative tax for life insurance companies in the case of taxable years beginning after December 31, 1961, see section 802(a)(2) and the regulations thereunder.
(iii) See section 56 and the regulations thereunder for provisions relating to the minimum tax for tax preferences.
(2)
Alternative tax.
The alternative tax is the sum of:
(i) A partial tax computed at the rates provided in sections 11, 511, 821 (a) or (c), and 831(a), on the taxable income of the taxpayer reduced by the amount of the net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977), and
(ii) An amount equal to the tax determined under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.
For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1954, and before January 1, 1958, the partial tax under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall also be computed at the rates provided in section 802(a). For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1963, the reference in such subdivision to section 821 (a) or (c) is to be read as a reference to section 821 (a) or (b).
(3)
Tax on capital gains.
For purposes of subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph, the tax shall be:
(i) In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1974, a tax of 30 percent of the net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976),
(ii) In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, and before January 1, 1975:
(
a
) A tax of 25 percent of the lesser of the amount of the subsection (d) gain (as defined in section 1201(d) and paragraph (f) of this section) or the amount of the net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976), plus
(
b
) A tax of 30 percent (28 percent in the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, and before January 1, 1971) of the excess, if any, of the net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) over the subsection (d) gain,
(iii) In the case of a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1970, and after March 31, 1954, a tax of 25 percent of the net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976), or
(iv) In the case of a taxable year beginning before April 1, 1954, a tax of 26 percent of the net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976).
(4)
Determination of special deductions.
In the computation of the partial tax described in subparagraph (2)(i) of this paragraph the special deductions provided for in sections 243, 244, 245, 247, 922, and 941 shall not be recomputed as the result of the reduction of taxable income by the net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977).
(b)
Other taxpayers
—(1)
In general.
If for any taxable year a taxpayer (other than a corporation) has net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) (as defined in section 1222(11)) section 1201(b) imposes an alternative tax in lieu of the tax imposed by sections 1 and 511, but only if such alternative tax is less than the tax imposed by sections 1 and 511. The alternative tax is not in lieu of any other tax not specifically set forth in section 1201(b). See section 56 and the regulations thereunder for provisions relating to the minimum tax for tax preferences.
(2)
Alternative tax.
The alternative tax is the sum of:
(i) A partial tax computed at the rates provided by sections 1 and 511 on the taxable income reduced by an amount equal to 50 percent of the net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977), and
(ii) In the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969:
(
a
) A tax of 25 percent of the lesser of the amount of the subsection (d) gain (as defined in section 1201(d) and paragraph (f) of this section) or the amount of the net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977), plus
(
b
) A tax computed as provided in section 1201(c) and paragraph (e) of this section on the excess, if any, of the net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) over the subsection (d) gain, or
(iii) In the case of a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1970, a tax of 25 percent of the net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976).
(3)
Cross references.
See § 1.1-2(a) for rule relating to the computation of the limitation on tax in cases where the alternative tax is imposed. See § 1.34-2 (a) for rule relating to the computation of the dividend received credit under section 34 (for dividends received on or before December 31, 1964), and § 1.35-1 (a) for rule relating to the computation of credit for partially tax-exempt interest under section 35 in cases where the alternative tax is imposed.
(c)
Tax-exempt trusts and organizations.
In applying section 1201 in the case of tax-exempt trusts or organizations subject to the tax imposed by section 511, the only amount which is taken into account as capital gain or loss is that which is taken into account in computing unrelated business taxable income under section 512. Under section 512, the only amount taken into account as capital gain or loss is that resulting from the application of section 631(a), relating to the election to treat the cutting of timber as a sale or exchange.
(d)
Joint returns.
In the case of a joint return, the excess of any net long-term capital gain over any net short-term capital loss is to be determined by combining the long-term capital gains and losses and the short-term capital gains and losses of the spouses.
(e)
Computation of tax on capital gain in excess of subsection (d) gain
—(1)
In general.
The tax computed for purposes of section 1201(b)(3) and paragraph (b) (2)(ii)(
b
) of this section shall be the amount by which a tax determined under section 1 or 511 on an amount equal to the taxable income (but not less than 50 percent of the net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977)) for the taxable year exceeds a tax determined under section 1 or 511 on an amount equal to the sum of (i) the amount subject to tax under section 1201 (b)(1) and paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for such year plus (ii) an amount equal to 50 percent of the subsection (d) gain for such year.
(2)
Limitation.
Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, the tax computed for purposes of section 1201(b) (3) and paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(
b
) of this section shall not exceed an amount equal to the following percentage of the excess of the net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) over the subsection (d) gain for the taxable year:
(i) 29
1/2
percent, in the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, and before January 1, 1971, or
(ii) 32
1/2
percent, in the case of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1970, and before January 1, 1972.
(f)
Definition of subsection (d) gain
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of section 1201 and this section, the term
subsection (d) gain
means the sum of the long-term capital gains for the taxable year arising:
(i) In the case of amounts received or accrued, as the case may be, before January 1, 1975 (other than any gain from a transaction described in section 631 or 1235), from:
(
a
) Sales or other dispositions on or before October 9, 1969, including sales or other dispositions the income from which is returned as provided in section 453 (a)(1) or (b)(1), or
(
b
) Sales or other dispostions after October 9, 1969, pursuant to binding contracts entered into on or before that date, including sales or other dispositions the income from which is returned as provided in section 453 (a)(1) or (b)(1),
(ii) From liquidating distributions made by a corporation which are made (a) before October 10, 1970, and (b) pursuant to a plan of complete liquidation adopted on or before October 9, 1969, or
(iii) In the case of a taxpayer (other than a corporation), from any other source not described in subdivision (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph, but the amount taken into account from such other sources shall be limited to the amount, if any, by which $50,000 ($25,000 in the case of a married individual filing a separate return) exceeds the sum of the gains to which subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph apply.
(2)
Special rules.
For purposes of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph:
(i) A binding contract entered into on or before October 9, 1969, means a contract, whether written or unwritten, which on or before that date was legally enforceable against the taxpayer under applicable law. If on or before October 9, 1969, a taxpayer grants an irrevocable option or irrevocable contractual right to another party to buy certain property and such other party exercises that option or right after October 9, 1969, the sale of such property is a sale pursuant to a binding contract entered into on or before October 9, 1969. The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
During 1964, A, B, and C formed a closely held corporation, and A was appointed as president of the organization. On July 1, 1964, A received for consideration 100 shares of common stock in the corporation subject to the agreement that, if A should retire from the management of the corporation or die, A or his estate would first offer his shares of stock to the corporation for purchase and that, if the corporation did not buy the stock within 60 days, the stock could be sold to any party other than the corporation. On September 1, 1970, A retired from the management of the corporation and offered his shares to the corporation for purchase. Pursuant to the agreement, the corporation purchased A's stock on September 30, 1970. A's sale of such stock was pursuant to a binding contract entered into on or before October 9, 1969.
(ii) A contract which pursuant to subdivision (i) of this subparagraph constitutes a binding contract entered into on or before October 9, 1969, does not cease to qualify as such a contract by reason of the fact that after October 9, 1969, there is a modification of the terms of the contract such as a change in the time of performance, or in the amount of the debt or in the terms and mode of payment, or in the rate of interest, or there is a change in the form or nature of the obligation or the character of the security, so long as the taxpayer is at all times on and after October 9, 1969, legally bound by such contract. The application of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On August 1, 1969, A sold certain capital assets to B on the installment plan and elected to return the gain therefrom under section 453, the agreement providing for payments over a period of 2 years. At the time of the sale these assets had been held by A for more than 6 months. On July 31, 1970, A and B agreed to a modification of the terms of payment under the sales agreement, the only change in the contract being that the installment payments due after July 31, 1970, would be paid over a 3-year period. For purposes of this paragraph the payments received by A after July 31, 1970, are considered amounts received from the sale on August 1, 1969. (See section 483 for rules with respect to interest on deferred payments.)

# Example 2.
On April 1, 1969, A sold certain capital assets to B on the installment plan and elected to return the gain therefrom under section 453, the agreement providing for payments over a period of 3 years. At the time of the sale these assets had been held by A for more than 6 months. On March 31, 1970, C assumed B's obligation to pay the balance of the installments which were due after that date. For purposes of this paragraph any installment payments received by A after March 31, 1970, from C are considered amounts received from a sale made on or before October 9, 1969.

# Example 3.
On May 1, 1969, A offers to sell certain capital assets to B if B accepts the offer within 1 year, unless it is previously withdrawn by A. B accepts the offer on November 1, 1969, and the transaction is consummated shortly thereafter. For purposes of this paragraph, any payment received by A pursuant to the sale is not considered an amount received from a sale made on or before October 9, 1969, or from a sale pursuant to a binding contract entered into on or before that date.
(iii) An amount which is considered under section 402(a)(2) or 403(a)(2) as gain of the taxpayer from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than 6 months shall be treated as gain subject to the provisions of section 1201 (d)(1) and subdivision (i) of such subparagraph, but only if on or before October 9, 1969, (
a
) the employee with respect to whom such amount is distributed or paid, died or was otherwise separated from the service, and (
b
) the terms of the plan required, or the employee elected, that total distributions or amounts payable be paid to the taxpayer within 1 taxable year.
(iv) Gain described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2) with respect to a partnership, estate, or trust, which is required to be included in the gross income of a partner in such partnership, or of a beneficiary of such estate or trust, shall be treated as such gain with respect to such partner or beneficiary. Thus, for example, if during 1974 a partnership which uses the calendar year as its taxable year receives amounts which give rise to section 1201(d)(1) gain, a partner who uses the fiscal year ending June 30 as his taxable year shall treat his distributive share of such gain as subsection (d) gain for his taxable year ending June 30, 1975, even though such share is distributed to him after December 31, 1974. See § 1.706-1.
(v) An individual shall be considered married for purposes of subdivision (iii) of such subparagraph if for the taxable year he may elect with his spouse to make a joint return under section 6013(a).
(vi) In applying such subparagraph for purposes of section 21(a) (1) long-term capital gains arising from amounts received before January 1, 1970, shall be taken into account if such amounts are received during the taxable year.
(g)
Illustrations.
The application of this section may be illustrated by the following examples in which the assumption is made that section 56 (relating to minimum tax for tax preferences) does not apply:

# Example 1.
A, a single individual, has for the calendar year 1954 taxable income (exclusive of capital gains and losses) of $99,400. He realizes in 1954 a gain of $50,000 on the sale of a capital asset held for 19 months and sustains a loss of $20,000 on the sale of a capital asset held for 5 months. He had no other capital gains or losses. Since the alternative tax is less than the tax otherwise computed under section 1, the tax payable is the alternative tax, that is $74,298. The tax is computed as follows:
Tax Under Section 1
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$99,400
Net long-term capital gain (100 percent of $50,000)
$50,000
Net short-term capital loss (100 percent of $20,000)
20,000
Excess of net long-term capital gain over the net short-term capital loss
30,000
129,400
Deduction of 50 percent of excess of net long-term capital gain over the net short-term capital loss (section 1202)
15,000
Taxable income
114,400
Tax under section 1
80,136
Alternative Tax Under Section 1201(b)
Taxable income
$114,400
Less 50 percent of excess of net long-term capital gain over net short-term capital loss (section 1201(b)(1))
15,000
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
99,400
Partial tax (tax on $99,400)
66,798
Plus 25 percent of $30,000
7,500
Alternative tax under section 1201(b)
74,298

# Example 2.
A husband and wife, who file a joint return for the calendar year 1970, have taxable income (exclusive of capital gains and losses) of $100,000. In 1970 they realize $200,000 of net long-term capital gain in excess of net short-term capital loss, including long-term capital gains of $100,000 arising from sales consummated in 1968 the income from which is returned on the installment method under section 453, and long-term capital gains of $50,000, arising in respect of distributions from X corporation made before October 10, 1970, which were pursuant to a plan of complete liquidation adopted on October 9, 1969. Since the alternative tax under section 1201(b) is less than the tax otherwise computed under section 1, the tax payable for 1970 is the alternative tax, that is, $97,430 plus the tax surcharge under section 51. The tax (without regard to the tax surcharge) is computed as follows:
Tax Under Section 1
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$100,000
Net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) (excess of net long-term capital gain over the net short-term capital loss)
200,000
Total
300,000
Deduction of 50 percent of net section 1201 (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) gain (section 1202)
100,000
Taxable income
200,000
Tax under section 1
110,980
Alternative Tax Under Section 1201(b)
(1) Net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976)
$200,000
(2) Subsection (d) gain:
Section 1201(d)(1)
100,000
Section 1201(d)(2)
50,000
Total subsection (d) gain
150,000
(3) Net section 1201 (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) gain in excess of subsection (d) gain ($200,000 less $150,000)
50,000
(4) Tax under section 1201(b)(1):
(i) Taxable income
$200,000
(ii) Less: 50% of item (1)
100,000
(iii) Amount subject to tax under section 1201(b)(1)
100,000
Partial tax (computed under section 1)
45,180
(5) Tax under section 1201(b)(2): (25% of item (1) or of item (2), whichever is lesser [25% of $150,000])
37,500
(6) Tax under section 1201(b)(3) on item (3):
Tax under section 1 on taxable income ($200,000)
$110,980
Less: Tax under section 1 on sum of item (4)(iii)(c) ($100,000) plus 50% of item (2) ($75,000) (Total $175,000)
93,780
Tax under section 1201(c)(1)
17,200
Limitation under section
1201(c)(2)(A) (29
1/2
% of item (3))
14,750
14,750
(7) Alternative tax under section 1201(b)
97,430

# Example 3.
A husband and wife, who file a joint return for the calendar year 1971, have taxable income (exclusive of capital gains and losses) of $80,000. In 1971 they realize long-term capital gain of $30,000 arising from
a sale consummated on July 1, 1969, the income from which is returned on the installment method under section 453. From securities transactions in 1971 they have long-term capital gains of 60,000 and a short-term capital loss of $10,000. Since the alternative tax under section 1201(b) is less than the tax otherwise computed under section 1, the tax payable is the alternative tax, that is, $55,140. The tax is computed as follows:
Tax Under Section 1
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$80,000
Net long-term capital gains (100% of $90,000)
$90,000
Net short-term capital loss (100% of $10,000)
10,000
Net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976)
80,000
Total
160,000
Deduction of 50% of net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) (section 1202)
40,000
Taxable income
120,000
Tax under section 1
57,580
Alternative Tax Under Section 1201(b)
(1) Net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976)
$80,000
(2) Subsection (d) gain:
Section 1201(d)(1)
30,000
Section 1201(d)(2)
Section 1201(d)(3) ($50,000 less $30,000)
20,000
Total subsection (d) gain
50,000
(3) Net section 1201 (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) gain in excess of subsection (d) gain ($80,000 less $50,000)
30,000
(4) Tax under section 1201(b)(1):
(i) Taxable income
$120,000
(ii) Less: 50% of item (1)
40,000
(iii) Amount subject to tax under section 1201(b)(1)
80,000
Partial tax (computed under section 1)
33,340
(5) Tax under section 1201(b)(2): (25% of item (1) or of item (2), whichever is lesser [25% of $50,000])
12,500
(6) Tax under section 1201 (b)(3) on item (3):
Tax under section 1 on taxable income ($120,000)
$57,580
Less: Tax under sec. 1 on sum of item (4) (iii) ($80,000) plus 50% of item (2) ($25,000) (Total $105,000)
$48,280
Tax under section 1201(c)(1)
9,300
Limitation under section 1201(c) (2)(B) (32
1/2
% of item (3))
9,750
$9,300
(7) Alternative tax under section 1201(b)
55,140

# Example 4.
A husband and wife, who file a joint return for the calendar year 1973, have taxable income (exclusive of capital gains and losses) of $250,000. In 1973 they realize long-term capital gains (not described in section 1201(d) (1) or (2)) of $140,000 and a short-term capital loss of $50,000. Since the alternative tax under section 1201(b) is less than the tax otherwise computed under section 1, the tax payable is the alternative tax, that is, $172,480. The tax is computed as follows:
Tax Under Section 1
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$250,000
Net long-term capital gains (100% of $140,000)
$140,000
Net short-term capital loss (100% of $50,000)
50,000
Net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976)
90,000
Total
340,000
Deduction of 50% of net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) (section 1202)
45,000
Taxable income
295,000
Tax under section 1
177,480
Alternative Tax Under Section 1201(b)
(1) Net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976)
$90,000
(2) Subsection (d) gain:
Section 1201(d)(1)
Section 1201(d)(2)
Section 1201(d)(3)
50,000
Total subsection (d) gain
50,000
(3) Net section 1201 gain (net capital gain for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) in excess of subsection (d) gain ($90,000 less $50,000)
40,000
(4) Tax under section 1201(b)(1):
(i) Taxable income
$295,000
(ii) Less: 50% of item (1)
45,000
(iii) Amount subject to tax under section 1201(b)(1)
250,000
Partial tax (computed under section 1)
145,980
(5) Tax under section 1201(b)(2): (25% of item (1) or of item (2), whichever is lesser [25% of $50,000])
$12,500
(6) Tax under section 1201(b)(3) on item (3):
Tax under section 1 on taxable income ($295,000)
$177,480
Less: Tax under section 1 on sum of item (4) (iii) ($250,000) plus 50% of item (2) ($25,000) (Total $275,000)
163,480
14,000
(7) Alternative tax under section 1201(b)
172,480
[T.D. 7337, 39 FR 44975, Dec. 30, 1974, as amended by T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72651, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 1.1202-0
Table of contents.
This section lists the major captions that appear in the regulations under § 1.1202-2.

# § 1.1202-2 Qualified small business stock; effect of redemptions.
(a) Redemptions from taxpayer or related person.
(1) In general.
(2) De minimis amount.
(b) Significant redemptions.
(1) In general.
(2) De minimis amount.
(c) Transfers by shareholders in connection with the performance of services not treated as purchases.
(d) Exceptions for termination of services, death, disability or mental incompetency, or divorce.
(1) Termination of services.
(2) Death.
(3) Disability or mental incompetency.
(4) Divorce.
(e) Effective date.
[T.D. 8749, 62 FR 68166, Dec. 31, 1997]
§ 1.1202-1
Deduction for capital gains.
(a) In computing gross income, adjusted gross income, taxable income, capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) and net capital loss, 100 percent of any gain or loss (computed under section 1001, recognized under section 1002, and taken into account without regard to subchapter P (section 1201 and following), chapter 1 of the Code) upon the sale or exchange of a capital asset shall be taken into account regardless of the period for which the capital asset has been held. Nevertheless, the net short-term capital gain or loss and the net long-term capital gain or loss must be separately computed. In computing the adjusted gross income or the taxable income of a taxpayer other than a corporation, if for any taxable year the net long-term capital gain exceeds the net short-term capital loss, 50 percent of the amount of the excess is allowable as a deduction from gross income under section 1202.
(b) For the purpose of computing the deduction allowable under section 1202 in the case of an estate or trust, any long-term or short-term capital gains which, under sections 652 and 662, are includible in the gross income of its income beneficiaries as gains derived from the sale or exchange of capital assets must be excluded in determining whether, for the taxable year of the estate or trust, its net long-term capital gain exceeds its net short-term capital loss. To determine the extent to which such gains are includible in the gross income of a beneficiary, see the regulations under sections 652 and 662. For example, during 1954 a trust realized a gain of $1,000 upon the sale of stock held for 10 months. Under the terms of the trust instrument all of such gain must be distributed during the taxable year to A, the sole income beneficiary. Assuming that under section 652 or 662 A must include all of such gain in his gross income, the trust is not entitled to any deduction with respect to such gain under section 1202. Assuming A had no other capital gains or losses for 1954, he would be entitled to a deduction of $500 under section 1202. For purposes of this section, an income beneficiary shall be any beneficiary to whom an amount is required to be distributed, or is paid or credited, which is includible in his gross income.
(c) The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
A, an individual, had the following transactions in 1954:
Long-term capital gain
$6,000
Long-term capital loss
4,000
Net long-term capital gain
$2,000
Short-term capital loss
1,800
Short-term capital gain
300
Net short-term capital loss
1,500
Excess of net long-term capital gain over net short-term capital loss
500
Since the net long-term capital gain exceeds the net short-term capital loss by $500, 50 percent of the excess, or $250, is allowable as a deduction under section 1202.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12001, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 1.1202-2
Qualified small business stock; effect of redemptions.
(a)
Redemptions from taxpayer or related person
—(1)
In general.
Stock acquired by a taxpayer is not qualified small business stock if, in one or more purchases during the 4-year period beginning on the date 2 years before the issuance of the stock, the issuing corporation purchases (directly or indirectly) more than a de minimis amount of its stock from the taxpayer or from a person related (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)) to the taxpayer.
(2)
De minimis amount.
For purposes of this paragraph (a), stock acquired from the taxpayer or a related person exceeds a de minimis amount only if the aggregate amount paid for the stock exceeds $10,000 and more than 2 percent of the stock held by the taxpayer and related persons is acquired. The following rules apply for purposes of determining whether the 2-percent limit is exceeded. The percentage of stock acquired in any single purchase is determined by dividing the stock's value (as of the time of purchase) by the value (as of the time of purchase) of all stock held (directly or indirectly) by the taxpayer and related persons immediately before the purchase. The percentage of stock acquired in multiple purchases is the sum of the percentages determined for each separate purchase.
(b)
Significant redemptions
—(1)
In general.
Stock is not qualified small business stock if, in one or more purchases during the 2-year period beginning on the date 1 year before the issuance of the stock, the issuing corporation purchases more than a de minimis amount of its stock and the purchased stock has an aggregate value (as of the time of the respective purchases) exceeding 5 percent of the aggregate value of all of the issuing corporation's stock as of the beginning of such 2-year period.
(2)
De minimis amount.
For purposes of this paragraph (b), stock exceeds a de minimis amount only if the aggregate amount paid for the stock exceeds $10,000 and more than 2 percent of all outstanding stock is purchased. The following rules apply for purposes of determining whether the 2-percent limit is exceeded. The percentage of the stock acquired in any single purchase is determined by dividing the stock's value (as of the time of purchase) by the value (as of the time of purchase) of all stock outstanding immediately before the purchase. The percentage of stock acquired in multiple purchases is the sum of the percentages determined for each separate purchase.
(c)
Transfers by shareholders in connection with the performance of services not treated as purchases.
A transfer of stock by a shareholder to an employee or independent contractor (or to a beneficiary of an employee or independent contractor) is not treated as a purchase of the stock by the issuing corporation for purposes of this section even if the stock is treated as having first been transferred to the corporation under § 1.83-6(d)(1) (relating to transfers by shareholders to employees or independent contractors).
(d)
Exceptions for termination of services, death, disability or mental incompetency, or divorce.
A stock purchase is disregarded if the stock is acquired in the following circumstances:
(1)
Termination of services
—(i)
Employees and directors.
The stock was acquired by the seller in connection with the performance of services as an employee or director and the stock is purchased from the seller incident to the seller's retirement or other bona fide termination of such services;
(ii)
Independent contractors.
[Reserved]
(2)
Death.
Prior to a decedent's death, the stock (or an option to acquire the stock) was held by the decedent or the decedent's spouse (or by both), by the decedent and joint tenant, or by a trust revocable by the decedent or the decedent's spouse (or by both), and—
(i) The stock is purchased from the decedent's estate, beneficiary (whether by bequest or lifetime gift), heir, surviving joint tenant, or surviving spouse, or from a trust established by the decedent or decedent's spouse; and
(ii) The stock is purchased within 3 years and 9 months from the date of the decedent's death;
(3)
Disability or mental incompetency.
The stock is purchased incident to the disability or mental incompetency of the selling shareholder; or
(4)
Divorce.
The stock is purchased incident to the divorce (within the meaning of section 1041(c)) of the selling shareholder.
(e)
Effective date.
This section applies to stock issued after August 10, 1993.
[T.D. 8749, 62 FR 68166, Dec. 31, 1997]

# Treatment of Capital Losses
§ 1.1211-1
Limitation on capital losses.
(a)
Corporations
—(1)
General rule.
In the case of a corporation, there shall be allowed as a deduction an amount equal to the sum of:
(i) Losses sustained during the taxable year from sales or exchanges of capital assets, plus
(ii) The aggregate of all losses sustained in other taxable years which are treated as a short-term capital loss in such taxable year pursuant to section 1212(a)(1),
but only to the extent of gains from such sales or exchanges of capital assets in such taxable year.
(2)
Banks.
See section 582(c) for modification of the limitation under section 1211(a) in the case of a bank, as defined in section 581.
(b)
Taxpayers other than corporations
—(1)
General rule.
In the case of a taxpayer other than a corporation, there shall be allowed as a deduction an amount equal to the sum of:
(i) Losses sustained during the taxable year from sales or exchanges of capital assets, plus
(ii) The aggregate of all losses sustained in other taxable years which are treated either as a short-term capital loss or as a long-term capital loss in such taxable year pursuant to section 1212(b), but only to the extent of gains from sales or exchanges of capital assets in such taxable year, plus (if such losses exceed such gains) the additional allowance or transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) from ordinary income for such taxable year. The additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) shall be determined by application of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, and the transitional additional allowance by application of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.
(2)
Additional allowance.
Except as otherwise provided by subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, the additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969, shall be the least of:
(i) The taxable income for the taxable year reduced, but not below zero, by the zero bracket amount (in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977, the taxable income for the taxable year);
(ii) $3,000 ($2,000 for taxable years beginning in 1977; $1,000 for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977); or
(iii) The sum of the excess of the net short-term capital loss over the net long-term capital gain, plus one-half of the excess of the net long-term capital loss over the net short-term capital gain.
(3)
Transitional additional allowance
—(i)
In general.
If, pursuant to the provisions of § 1.1212-1(b) and subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph, there is carried to the taxable year from a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1970, a long-term capital loss, and if for the taxable year there is an excess of net long-term capital loss over net short-term capital gain, then, in lieu of the additional allowance provided by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) shall be the least of:
(
a
) The taxable income for the taxable year reduced, but not below zero, by the zero bracket amount (in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977, the taxable income for the taxable year);
(
b
) $3,000 ($2,000 for taxable years beginning in 1977; $1,000 for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977); or
(
c
) The sum of the excess of the net short-term capital loss over the net long-term capital gain; that portion of the excess of the net long-term capital loss over the net short-term capital gain computed as provided in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph; plus one-half of the remaining portion of the excess of the net long-term capital loss over the net short-term capital gain.
(ii)
Computation of specially treated portion of excess long-term capital loss over net short-term capital gain.
In determining the transitional additional allowance deductible as provided by this subparagraph, there shall be applied thereto in full on a dollar-for-dollar basis the excess of net long-term capital loss over net short-term capital gain (computed with regard to capital losses carried to the taxable year) to the extent that the long-term capital losses carried to the taxable year from taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970, as provided by § 1.1212-1(b) and subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph, exceed the sum of (
a
) the portion of the capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) actually realized in the taxable year (i.e., computed without
regard to capital losses carried to the taxable year) which consists of net long-term capital gain actually realized in the taxable year, plus (
b
) the amount by which the portion of the capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) actually realized in the taxable year (i.e., computed without regard to capital losses carried to the taxable year) which consists of net short-term capital gain actually realized in the taxable year exceeds the total of short-term capital losses carried to the taxable year from taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970, as provided by § 1.1212-1(b) and subdivision (iv) of this subparagraph.
The amount by which the net long-term capital losses carried to the taxable year from taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970, exceeds the sum of (
a
) plus (
b
) shall constitute the
transitional net long-term capital loss component
for the taxable year for the purpose of this subparagraph.
(iii)
Carryover of certain long-term capital losses not utilized in computation of transitional additional allowance.
If for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, the transitional net long-term capital loss component determined as provided in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph exceeds the amount of such component applied to the transitional additional allowance for the taxable year as provided by subdivision (i) of this subparagraph and subparagraph (4)(ii) of this paragraph, then such excess shall for the purposes of this subparagraph be carried to the succeeding taxable year as long-term capital losses from taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970, for utilization in the computation of the transitional additional allowance in the succeeding taxable year as provided in subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph. In no event, however, shall the amount of such component carried to the following taxable year as otherwise provided by this subdivision exceed the total of net long-term capital losses actually carried to such succeeding taxable year pursuant to section 1212(b) and § 1.1212-1(b).
(iv)
Carryover of certain short-term capital losses not utilized in computation of additional allowance or transitional additional allowance.
If for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, the total short-term capital losses carried to such year from taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970, as provided by § 1.1212-1(b) and this subdivision exceed the sum of:
(
a
) The portion of the capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) actually realized in the taxable year (i.e., computed without regard to capital losses carried to the taxable year) which consists of net short-term capital gain actually realized in the taxable year, plus
(
b
) The amount by which the portion of the capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) actually realized in the taxable year (i.e., computed without regard to capital losses carried to the taxable year) which consists of net long-term capital gain actually realized in the taxable year exceeds the total long-term capital losses carried to the taxable year from taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970, as provided in § 1.1212-1(b) and subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph,
then such excess shall constitute the
transitional net short-term capital loss component
for the taxable year, and to the extent such component also exceeds the net short-term capital loss applied to the additional allowance (as provided in subparagraphs (2) and (4)(i) of this paragraph) or the transitional additional allowance (as provided by subdivision (i) of this subparagraph and subparagraph (4)(i) of this paragraph) for the taxable year shall be carried to the succeeding taxable year as short-term capital losses from taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970, for utilization in such succeeding taxable year in the computation of the additional allowance (as provided by subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) or the transitional additional allowance (as provided by subdivision (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph). In no event, however, shall the amount of such component so carried to the following taxable year as otherwise provided by this subdivision exceed the total of net short-term capital losses actually carried to such succeeding taxable year pursuant to section 1212(b) and § 1.1212-1(b).
(v)
Scope of rules.
The rules provided by this subparagraph are for the purpose of computing the amount of the transitional additional allowance deductible for the taxable year pursuant to the provisions of section 1212(b)(3) and this subparagraph. More specifically, their operation permits the limited use of a long-term capital loss carried to the taxable year from a taxable year beginning before December 31, 1969, in full on a dollar-for-dollar basis in computing the transitional additional allowance deductible for the taxable year. These rules have no application to, or effect upon, a determination of the character or amount of capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) reportable in the taxable year. See paragraph (b)(1) of this section and § 1.1212-1 for the determination of the amount and character of capital gains and losses reportable in the taxable year. Further, except to the extent that their application may affect the amount of the transitional additional allowance deductible for the taxable year and thus the amount to be treated as short-term capital loss for carryover purposes under section 1212(b) and § 1.1212-1(b)(2), these rules have no effect upon a determination of the character or amount of capital losses carried to or from the taxable year pursuant to section 1212(b) and § 1.1212-1(b).
(4)
Order of application of capital losses to additional allowance or transitional additional allowance.
In applying the excess of the net short-term capital loss over the net long-term capital gain and the excess of the net long-term capital loss over the net short-term capital gain to the additional allowance or transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) and this paragraph, such excesses shall, subject to the limitations of subparagraph (2) or (3) of this paragraph, be used in the following order:
(i) First, there shall be applied to the additional allowance or transitional additional allowance the excess, if any, of the net short-term capital loss over the net long-term capital gain.
(ii) Second, if such transitional additional allowance exceeds the amount so applied thereto as provided in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, there shall next be applied thereto as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph the excess, if any, of the net long-term capital loss over the net short-term capital gain to the extent of the transitional net long-term capital loss component for the taxable year computed as provided by subdivision (ii) of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.
(iii) Third, if such additional allowance or transitional additional allowance exceeds the sum of the amounts so applied thereto as provided in subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph, there shall be applied thereto one-half of the balance, if any, of the excess net long-term capital loss not applied pursuant to the provisions of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.
(5)
Taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 1970.
For any taxable year beginning prior to January 1, 1970, subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph shall not apply and losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets shall be allowed as a deduction only to the extent of gains from such sales or exchanges, plus (if such losses exceed such gains) the taxable income of the taxpayer or $1,000, whichever is smaller.
(6)
Special rules.
(i) For purposes of section 1211(b) and this paragraph, taxable income is to be computed without regard to gains or losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets and without regard to the deductions provided in section 151 (relating to personal exemptions) or any deduction in lieu thereof. For example, the deductions available to estates and trusts under section 642(b) are in lieu of the deductions allowed under section 151, and, in the case of estates and trusts, are to be added back to taxable income for the purposes of section 1211(b) and this paragraph.
(ii) For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1976, in case the tax is computed under section 3 and the regulations thereunder (relating to optional tax tables for individuals), the term
taxable income
as used in section 1211(b) and this paragraph shall be read as
adjusted gross income.
(iii) In the case of a joint return, the limitation under section 1211(b) and this paragraph, relating to the allowance of losses from sales or exchanges
of capital assets, is to be computed and the net capital loss determined with respect to the combined taxable income and the combined capital gains and losses of the spouses.
(7)
Married taxpayers filing separate returns
—(i)
In general.
In the case of a husband or a wife who files a separate return for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, the $3,000, $2,000, and $1,000 amounts specified in subparagraphs (2)(ii) and (3)(i)(
b
) of this paragraph shall instead be $1,500, $1,000, and $500, respectively.
(ii)
Special rule.
If, pursuant to the provisions of § 1.1212-1(b) and subparagraph (3) (iii) or (iv) of this paragraph, there is carried to the taxable year from a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1970, a short-term capital loss or a long-term capital loss, the $1,500, $1,000 and $500 amounts specified in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall instead be maximum amounts of $3,000, $2,000, and $1,000 respectively, equal to $1,500, $1,000, and $500, respectively, plus the total of the transitional net long-term capital loss component for the taxable year computed as provided by subparagraph (3)(ii) of this paragraph and the transitional net short-term capital loss component for the taxable year computed as provided by subparagraph (3)(iv) of this paragraph.
(8)
Examples.
The provisions of section 1211(b) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A, an unmarried individual with one exemption allowable as a deduction under section 151, has the following transactions in 1970:
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$4,400
Deduction provided by section 151
625
Taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b)
5,025
Long-term capital gain
$1,200
Long-term capital loss
(5,300)
Net long-term capital loss
(4,100)
Losses to the extent of gains
(1,200)
Additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
1,000
The net long-term capital loss of $4,100 is deductible in 1970 only to the extent of an additional allowance of $1,000 which is smaller than the taxable income of $5,025. Under section 1211(b) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, $2,000 of excess net long-term capital loss was required to produce the $1,000 additional allowance. Therefore, a net long-term capital loss of $2,100 ($4,100 minus $2,000) is carried over under section 1212(b) to the succeeding taxable year. If A had the same taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) (after reduction by the zero bracket amount) and the same transactions in 1977, the additional allowance would be $2,000, and a net long-term capital loss of $100 would be carried over. For a taxable year beginning in 1978 or thereafter, these facts would give rise to a $2,050 additional allowance and no carryover.

# Example 2.
B, an unmarried individual with one exemption allowable as a deduction under section 151, has the following transactions in 1970:
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$90
Deduction provided by section 151
625
Taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b)
715
Long-term capital gain
$1,200
Long-term capital loss
(5,200)
Net long-term capital loss
(4,000)
Losses to the extent of gains
(1,200)
Additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
715
The net long-term capital loss of $4,000 is deductible in 1970 only to the extent of an additional allowance of $715, since the $715 of taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) is smaller than $1,000. Under section 1211(b) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, $1,430 of net long-term capital loss was required to produce the $715 additional allowance. Therefore, a net long-term capital loss of $2,570 ($4,000 minus $1,430) is carried over under section 1212(b) to the succeeding taxable year. For illustration of the result if the net capital loss for the taxable year is smaller than both $1,000 and taxable income for the purposes of section 1211(b), see examples (3) and (4) of this subparagraph. For carryover of a net capital loss, see § 1.1212-1. Assuming the same taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) (after reduction by the zero bracket amount) and the same transations for taxable years beginning in 1977 or thereafter, the same result would be reached.

# Example 3.
A, an unmarried individual with one exemption allowable as a deduction under section 151, has the following transactions in 1971:
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$13,300
Deduction provided by section 151
675
Taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b)
13,975
Long-term capital gain
$400
Long-term capital loss
($600)
Net long-term capital loss
(200)
Short-term capital gain
900
Short-term capital loss
(1,400)
Net short-term capital loss
(500)
Losses to extent of gains
(1,300)
Additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
$600
The $600 additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) is the least of: (i) Taxable income of $13,975, (ii) $1,000, or (iii) the sum of the excess of the net short-term capital loss of $500 over the net long-term capital gain, plus one-half of the excess of the net long-term capital loss of $200 over the net short-term capital gain. The $600 additional allowance, therefore, consists of the net short-term capital loss of $500, plus $100 (one-half of the net long-term capital loss of $200), the total of which is smaller than both $1,000 and taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b). No amount of net capital loss remains to be carried over under section 1212(b) to the succeeding taxable year since the entire amount of the net short-term capital loss of $500 plus the entire amount of the net long-term capital loss of $200 required to produce $100 of the deduction was absorbed by the additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) for 1971. Assuming the same taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) (after reduction by the zero bracket amount) and the same transactions for taxable years beginning in 1977 or thereafter, the result would remain unchanged.

# Example 4.
A, a married individual filing a separate return with one exemption allowable as a deduction under section 151, has the following transactions in 1971:
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$12,000
Deduction provided by section 151
675
Taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b)
12,675
Long-term capital loss
($800)
Long-term capital gain
300
Net long-term capital loss
(500)
Short-term capital loss
(500)
Short-term capital gain
600
Net short-term capital gain
100
Losses to the extent of gains
(900)
Additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
200
The excess net long-term capital loss of $400 (net long-term capital loss of $500 minus net short-term capital gain of $100) is deductible in 1971 only to the extent of an additional allowance of $200 (one-half of $400) which is smaller than both $500 (married taxpayer filing a separate return for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969) and taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b). Since there is no net short-term capital loss in excess of net long-term capital gains for the taxable year, the $200 additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) consists entirely of excess net long-term capital loss. No amount of net capital loss remains to be carried over under section 1212(b) to the succeeding taxable year. Assuming the same taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) (after reduction by the zero bracket amount) and the same transactions for taxable years beginning in 1977 or thereafter, the result would remain unchanged.

# Example 5.
A, an unmarried individual with one exemption allowable as a deduction under section 151, has the following transactions in 1970:
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$13,300
Deduction provided by section 151
625
Taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b)
13,925
Long-term capital loss
($6,000)
Long-term capital gain
2,000
Net long-term capital loss
(4,000)
Short-term capital gain
3,000
Short-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969 under section 1212(b)(1)
(3,000)
Net short-term capital loss
0
Losses to the extent of gains
(5,000)
Additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
1,000
The $1,000 additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) is the least of (i) taxable income of $13,925, (ii) $1,000, or (iii) the sum of the net short-term capital loss ($0) plus one-half of the net long-term capital loss of $4,000. The $1,000 additional allowance, therefore, consists of net long-term capital loss. Since $2,000 of the net long-term capital loss of $4,000 was required to produce the $1,000 additional allowance, the $2,000 balance of the net long-term capital loss is carried over under section 1212(b) to 1971. Assuming the same taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) (after reduction by the zero bracket amount) and the same transactions for taxable years beginning in 1977 or thereafter, the additional allowance would be $2,000, and there would be no carryover.

# Example 6.
A, an unmarried individual with one exemption allowable as a deduction under section 151, has the following transactions in 1970:
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$13,300
Deduction provided by section 151
625
Taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b)
13,925
Long-term capital gain
$5,000
Long-term capital loss
(7,000)
Long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969 under section 1212 (b)(1)
(500)
Net long-term capital Loss
(2,500)
Short-term capital gain
1,100
Short-term capital loss
(1,400)
Net short-term capital loss
(300)
Losses to extent of gains
(6,100)
Transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
1,000
Because a component of the net long-term capital loss for 1970 is a $500 long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969, the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) and subparagraph (3) of this paragraph is the least of (i) taxable income of $13,925, (ii) $1,000 or (iii) the sum of the net short-term capital loss of $300, plus the net long-term capital loss for 1970, to the extent of the $500 long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969 and one-half of the $2,000 balance of the net long-term capital loss. The entire $500 long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969 is applicable in full to the transitional additional allowance because there was no net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) actually realized in 1970. The $1,000 transitional additional allowance, therefore, consists of the net short-term capital loss of $300, the $500 long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969, plus one-half of enough of the balance of the 1970 net long-term capital loss ($400) to make up the $200 balance of the $1,000 transitional additional allowance. A long-term capital loss of $1,600 ($2,500 minus $900), all of which is attributable to 1970, is carried over under section 1212(b) to 1971. Assuming the same taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) (after reduction by the zero bracket amount) and the same transactions for taxable years beginning in 1977 or thereafter, the transitional additional allowance would be $1,800. No amount would remain to be carried over to the succeeding taxable year.

# Example 7.
A, an unmarried individual with one exemption allowable as a deduction under section 151, has the following transactions in 1970:
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$13,300
Deduction provided by section 151
625
Taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b)
13,925
Long-term capital loss
($2,000)
Long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969 under section 1212 (b)(1)
(500)
Net long-term capital loss
(2,500)
Short-term capital gain
2,600
Short-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969 under section 1212 (b)(1)
(3,000)
Net short-term capital loss
(400)
Losses to the extent of gains
(2,600)
Transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
1,000
Because a component of the net long-term capital loss for 1970 is a $500 long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969, the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) and subparagraph (3) of this paragraph is the least of (i) taxable income of $13,925, (ii) $1,000, or (iii) the sum of the net short-term capital loss of $400, plus the net long-term capital loss for 1970 to the extent of the $500 long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969, and one-half of the $2,000 balance of the net long-term capital loss. The entire $500 long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969 is applicable in full to the transitional additional allowance because the net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) for the taxable year (computed without regard to capital losses carried to the taxable year) consisted entirely of net short-term capital gain not in excess of the short-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969. The $1,000 transitional additional allowance, therefore, consists of the net short-term capital loss of $400, the $500 long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969, plus one-half of enough of the balance of the 1970 net long-term capital loss ($200) to make up the $100 balance of the $1,000 transitional additional allowance. A long-term capital loss of $1,800 ($2,500 minus $700), all of which is attributable to 1970, is carried over under section 1212(b) to 1971. Assuming the same taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) (after reduction by the zero bracket amount) and the same transactions for taxable years beginning in 1977 or thereafter, the transitional additional allowance would be $1,900. No amount would remain to be carried over to the succeeding taxable year.

# Example 8.
Assume the facts in Example (7) but assume that the individual with one exemption allowable as a deduction under section 151 is married and files a separate return for 1970. The maximum transitional additional allowance to which the individual would be entitled for 1970 pursuant to subparagraph (7)(ii) of this paragraph would be the sum of $500 plus (i) $2,400 of the short-term capital loss of $3,000 carried to 1970 from 1969 (the amount by which such carryover exceeds the $600 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) actually realized in 1970, all of which is net short-term capital gain) and (ii) the $500 long-term capital loss carried to 1970 from 1969. However,
since this sum ($3,400) exceeds $1,000, the maximum transitional additional allowance to which the individual is entitled for 1970 is limited to $1,000. If for 1971, the same married individual had taxable income of $13,925 for purposes of section 1211(b) and no capital transactions, and filed a separate return, the additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) for 1971 would be limited to $500 by reason of subdivision (i) of subparagraph (7) of this paragraph, since, as illustrated in Example 7, no part of the capital loss carried over to 1971 under section 1212 (b) is attributable to 1969. Assuming the same taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) (after reduction by the zero bracket amount) and the same transactions as in example (7) for a married individual filing a separate return for a taxable year beginning in 1977 or thereafter, the transitional additional allowance would be $1,900. No amount would remain to be carried over to the succeeding taxable year.

# Example 9.
B, an unmarried individual with one exemption allowable as a deduction under section 151, has the following transactions in 1971:
Taxable income exclusive of capital gains and losses
$10,000
Deductions provided by section 151
675
Taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b)
10,675
Long-term capital gain
$2,500
Long-term capital loss treated under § 1.1211-1 (b)(3)(iii) as carried over from 1969
(5,000)
Net long-term capital loss
(2,500)
Short-term capital gain
2,700
Short-term capital loss carried to 1971 from 1970 under section 1212 (b)(1)
(1,000)
Short-term capital loss treated under § 1.1211-1 (b)(3)(iv) as carried over from 1969
($2,000)
Net short-term capital loss
(300)
Losses to extent of gain
(5,200)
Transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
1,000
Because a component of the net long-term capital loss for 1971 is a long-term capital loss treated under subparagraph (3)(iii) of this paragraph as carried over from 1969, the rules for computation of the transitional additional allowance under subparagraph (3) (i) and (ii) of this paragraph apply. The
transitional net long-term capital loss component
for 1971 under subparagraph (3)(ii) of this paragraph is $1,800, that is, the amount by which the $5,000 long-term loss treated as carried over from 1969 to 1971 exceeds (a) the net long-term capital gain of $2,500 actually realized in 1971 plus (b) the $700 excess of the $2,700 net short-term capital gain actually realized in 1971 over the $2,000 short-term capital loss treated as carried over to 1971 from 1969. The transitional additional allowance for 1971 consists of the $300 net short-term capital loss plus $700 of the net long-term capital loss attributable to 1969. A net long-term capital loss of $1,800 ($2,500 minus $700) is carried over to 1972 under section 1212(b). Only $1,100 of the $1,800 will be treated in 1972 as carried over from 1969 since under subparagraph (3)(iii) of this paragraph the
transitional net long-term capital loss component
of $1,800 is reduced by the amount ($700) applied to the transitional additional allowance for 1971. Assuming the same taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) (after reduction by the zero bracket amount) and the same transactions for a taxable year beginning in 1977, the transitional additional allowance would be $2,000. A net long-term capital loss of $800 would remain to be carried over. Of this amount $100 would be treated as carried over from 1969. Assuming the original facts for a taxable year beginning in 1978, the transitional additional allowance would be $2,450. No amount would remain to be carried over to the succeeding taxable year.
[T.D. 7301, 39 FR 964, Jan. 4, 1974; 39 FR 2758, Jan. 24, 1974, as amended by T.D. 7597, 44 FR 12419, Mar. 7, 1979; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 1.1212-1
Capital loss carryovers and carrybacks.
(a)
Corporations; other taxpayers for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964
—(1)
Regular net capital loss sustained for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970.
(i) A corporation sustaining a net capital loss for any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1970, and a taxpayer other than a corporation sustaining a net capital loss for any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1964, shall carry over such net loss to each of the 5 succeeding taxable years and treat it in each of such 5 succeeding taxable years as a short-term capital loss to the extent not allowed as a deduction against any net capital gains (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) of any taxable years intervening between the taxable year in which the net capital loss was sustained and the taxable year to which carried. The carryover is thus applied in each succeeding taxable year to offset any net capital gain in such succeeding taxable year. The amount of the capital loss carryover may not be
included in computing a new net capital loss of a taxable year which can be carried over to the next 5 succeeding taxable years. For purposes of this subparagraph, a net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) shall be computed without regard to capital loss carryovers or carrybacks. In the case of nonresident alien individuals, see section 871 for special rules on capital loss carryovers. For the rules applicable to the portion of a net capital loss of a corporation which is attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss sustained in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1958, see subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. For the rules applicable to a taxpayer other than a corporation in the treatment of that amount of a net capital loss which may be carried over under section 1212 and this subparagraph as a short-term capital loss to the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, see paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) The practical operation of the provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
(a) For the taxable years 1952 to 1956, inclusive, an individual with one exemption allowable under section 151 (or corresponding provision of prior law) is assumed to have a net short-term capital loss, net short-term capital gain, net long-term capital loss, net long-term capital gain, and taxable income (net income for 1952 and 1953) as follows:
1952
1953
1954
1955
1956
Carryover from prior years:
From 1952
($50,000)
($29,500)
($29,500)
From 1954
(19,500)
($13,000)
Net short-term loss (computed without regard to the carryovers)
($30,000)
(5,000)
(10,000)
Net short-term gain (computed without regard to the carryovers)
40,000
Net long-term loss
(20,500)
(10,000)
(5,000)
Net long-term gain
25,000
15,000
Net income or taxable income, computed without regard to capital gains and losses, and, after 1953, without regard to the deduction provided by section 151
500
500
500
1,000
500
Net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) (computed without regard to the carryovers)
20,500
36,000
Net capital loss
(50,000)
(19,500)
Deduction allowable under section 1202
1,000
Taxable income (after deductions allowable under sections 151 and 1202)
900
(b)
Net capital loss of 1952.
The net capital loss is $50,000. This figure is the excess of the losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets over the sum of (1) gains (in this case, none) from sales or exchanges of capital assets, and (2) net income (computed without regard to capital gains and losses) of $500. This amount may be carried forward in full as a short-term loss to 1953. However, in 1953 there was a net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) of $20,500, as defined by section 117(a)(10)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, and limited by section 117(e)(1) of the 1939 Code, against which this net capital loss of $50,000 is allowed in part. The remaining portion—$29,500—may be carried forward to 1954 and 1955 since there was no net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) in 1954. In 1955 this $29,500 is allowed in full against net capital gain of $36,000, as defined by paragraph (d) of § 1.1222-1 and limited by subdivision (i) of this subparagraph.
(c)
Net capital loss of 1954.
The net capital loss is $19,500. This figure is the excess of the losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets over the sum of (1) gains (in this case, none) from sales or exchanges of capital assets and (2) taxable income (computed without regard to capital gains and losses and the deductions provided in section 151) of $500. This amount may be carried forward in full as a short-term loss to 1955. The net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) in 1955, before deduction of any carryovers, is $36,000. (See sections 1222(9)(B) and 1212 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as it existed prior to the enactment of the Revenue
Act of 1964.) The $29,500 balance of the 1952 loss is first applied against the $36,000, leaving a balance of $6,500. Against this amount the $19,500 loss arising in 1954 is applied, leaving a loss of $13,000, which may be carried forward to 1956. Since this amount is treated as a short-term capital loss in 1956 under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, the excess of the net long-term capital gain over the net short-term capital loss is $2,000 ($15,000 minus $13,000). Half of this excess is allowable as a deduction under section 1202. Thus, after also deducting the exemption allowed as a deduction under section 151 ($600), the taxpayer has a taxable income of $900 ($2,500 minus $1,600) for 1956.
(2)
Corporations sustaining foreign expropriation capital losses for taxable years ending after December 31, 1958
—(i)
In general.
A corporation sustaining a net capital loss for any taxable year ending after December 31, 1958, any portion of which is attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss, shall carry over such portion of the loss to each of the ten succeeding taxable years and treat it in each of such succeeding taxable years as a short-term capital loss to the extent and consistent with the manner provided in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph. For such purposes, the portion of any net capital loss for any taxable year which is attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss is the amount, not in excess of the net capital loss for such year, of the foreign expropriation capital loss for such year. The portion of a net capital loss for any taxable year which is attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss shall be treated as a separate net capital loss for that year and shall be applied, after first applying the remaining portion of such net capital loss, to offset any capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) in a succeeding taxable year. In applying net capital losses of two or more taxable years to offset the capital gain net income (net capital gain(s) for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) of a subsequent taxable year, such net capital losses shall be offset against such capital gain net income (net capital gain(s) for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) in the order of the taxable years in which the losses were sustained, beginning with the loss for the earliest preceding taxable year, even though one or more of such net capital losses are attributable in whole or in part to a foreign expropriation capital loss.
(ii)
Foreign expropriation capital loss defined.
For purposes of this subaparagraph the term
foreign expropriation capital loss
means, for any taxable year, the sum of the losses taken into account in computing the net capital loss for such year which are:
(
a
) Losses sustained directly by reason of the expropriation, intervention, seizure, or similar taking of property by the government of any foreign country, any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of the foregoing, or
(
b
) Losses (treated under section 165 (g)(1) as losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets) from securities which become worthless by reason of the expropriation, intervention, seizure, or similar taking of property by the government of any foreign country, any political subdivision thereof, or any agency or instrumentality of the foregoing.
(iii)
Illustrations.
The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
X, a domestic corporation which uses the calendar year as the taxable year, owns as a capital asset 75 percent of the outstanding stock of Y, a foreign corporation operating in a foreign country. In 1961, the foreign country seizes all of the assets of Y, rendering X's stock in Y worthless and thus causing X to sustain a $40,000 foreign expropriation capital loss for such year. In 1961, X has $30,000 of other losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets and $50,000 of gains from the sale or exchange of capital assets. X's net capital loss for 1961 is $20,000 ($70,000−$50,000). Since the foreign expropriation capital loss exceeds this amount, the entire $20,000 is a foreign expropriation capital loss for 1961.

# Example 2.
Z, a domestic corporation which uses the calendar year as the taxable year, has a net capital loss of $50,000 for 1961, $30,000 of which is attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss. Pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, $30,000 of such net capital loss shall be carried over as a short-term capital loss to each of the 10 taxable years succeeding 1961, and the remaining $20,000 of the net capital loss shall be carried over as a short-term capital loss to each of the 5 taxable years succeeding 1961. Z has a $35,000 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) (determined without regard
to any capital loss carryover) for 1962. In offsetting the $50,000 capital loss carryover from 1961 against the $35,000 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) for 1962, the $30,000 portion of such carryover which is attributable to the foreign expropriation capital loss for 1961 is applied against the 1962 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) after applying the $20,000 remaining portion of the carryover. Thus, there is a capital loss carryover of $15,000 to 1963, all of which is attributable to the foreign expropriation capital loss for 1961. Z has a net capital loss for 1963 of $10,000, no portion of which is attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss. For 1964, Z has a net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) of $22,000 (determined without regard to the capital loss carryovers from 1961 and 1963). In offsetting the capital loss carryovers from 1961 and 1963 against Z's $22,000 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) for 1964, the $15,000 carryover from 1961 is applied against the 1964 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) before the $10,000 capital loss carryover from 1963 is applied against such gain. Thus, $3,000 of the 1963 net capital loss remains to be carried over to 1965.
(3)
Regular net capital loss sustained by a corporation for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969
—(i)
General rule.
A corporation sustaining a net capital loss for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969 (hereinafter in this paragraph referred to as the
loss year
), shall:
(
a
) Carry back such net capital loss to each of the 3 taxable years preceding the loss year, but only to the extent that such net capital loss is not attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss and the carryback of such net capital loss does not increase or produce a net operating loss (as defined in section 172(c)) for the taxable year to which it is carried back; and
(
b
) Carry over such net capital loss to each of the 5 taxable years succeeding the loss year,
and, subject to subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, treat such net capital loss in each of such 3 preceding and 5 succeeding taxable years as a short-term capital loss.
(ii)
Amount treated as a short-term capital loss in each year.
The entire amount of the net capital loss for any loss year shall be carried to the earliest of the taxable years to which such net capital loss may be carried, and the portion of such net capital loss which shall be carried to each of the other taxable years to which such net capital loss may be carried shall be the excess, if any, of such net capital loss over the total of the capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) (computed without regard to the capital loss carryback from the loss year or any taxable year thereafter) for each of the prior taxable years to which such net capital loss may be carried.
(iii)
Special rules. (a)
In the case of a net capital loss which is not a foreign expropriation capital loss and which cannot be carried back in full to a preceding taxable year by reason of section 1212(a)(1)(A)(ii) and subdivision (i)(
a
) of this subparagraph because such loss would produce or increase a net operating loss in such preceding taxable year, the capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) for such preceding taxable year shall in no case be treated as greater than the amount of such net capital loss which can be carried back to such preceding taxable year upon the application of section 1212(a)(1)(A)(ii) and subdivision (i)(
a
) of this subparagraph.
(
b
) For the rules applicable to the portion of a net capital loss of a corporation which is attributable to a foreign expropriation capital loss sustained in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1958, see section 1212(a)(2) and subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
(
c
) Section 1212(a)(1)(A) and subdivision (
i
)(
a
) of this subparagraph shall not apply to (and no carryback shall be allowed with respect to) the net capital loss of a corporation for any taxable year for which such corporation is an electing small business corporation under subchapter S. See § 1.1372-1.
(
d
) A net capital loss of a corporation for a year for which it is not an electing small business corporation under subchapter S shall not be carried back under section 1212(a)(1)(A) and subdivision (i)(
a
) of this subparagraph to a
taxable year for which such corporation is an electing small business corporation. See section 1212(a)(3).
(
e
) A net capital loss of a corporation shall not be carried back under section 1212(a)(1)(A) and subdivision (i)(
a
) of this subparagraph to a taxable year for which the corporation was a foreign personal holding company, a regulated investment company, or a real estate investment trust, or for which an election made by the corporation under section 1247 is applicable. See section 1212(a)(4).
(
f
) A taxable year to which a net capital loss of a corporation cannot, by reason of (
d
) or (
e
) of this subdivision, be carried back under section 1212(a) (1)(A) and subdivision (i)(
a
) of this subparagraph shall nevertheless be treated as 1 of the 3 taxable years preceding the loss year for purposes of section 1212(a)(1)(A) and such subdivision (i)(
a
); but any capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) for such taxable year to which such net capital loss cannot be carried back shall be disregarded for purposes of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.
(
g
) A regulated investment company (as defined in section 851) sustaining a net capital loss shall carry over that loss to each of the 8 taxable years succeeding the loss year. However, the 8-year period prescribed in the preceding sentence shall be reduced (but not to less than 5 years) by the sum of (
1
) the number of taxable years to which the net capital loss must be carried back pursuant to subdivision (i)(
a
) of this subparagraph (as limited by subdivision (iii)(
e
) of this subparagraph) and (
2
) the number of taxable years, of the 8 taxable year succeeding the loss year, that the corporation failed to qualify as a regulated investment company as defined in section 851. This subdivision shall not extend the carryover period prescribed in subdivision (i)(
b
) of this subparagraph to a year in which a corporation is not a regulated investment company as defined in section 851.
(iv) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples, in each of which it is assumed that the corporation is not, and never has been, a corporation described in subdivision (iii) (
c
) or (
d
) of this subparagraph, that the corporation files its tax returns on a calendar year basis, and that no capital loss sustained is a foreign expropriation capital loss:

# Example 1.
A corporation has a net capital loss for 1970 which section 1212(a)(1)(A) permits to be carried back. The entire net capital loss for 1970 may be carried back to 1967, but only to the extent that a net operating loss for 1967 would not be produced or increased. The amount of the carryback to 1968 is the excess of the net capital loss for 1970 over the net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) for 1967, computed without regard to a capital loss carryback from 1970 or any taxable year thereafter. The amount of the carryback to 1969 is the excess of the net capital loss for 1970 over the sum of the net capital gains (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) for 1967 and 1968, computed without regard to a capital loss carryback from 1970 or any taxable year thereafter. The amount of the carryover to 1971 is the excess of the net capital loss for 1970 over the sum of the net capital gains (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) for 1967, 1968, and 1969, computed without regard to a capital loss carryback from 1970 or any taxable year thereafter. Similarly, the amount of the carryover to 1972, 1973, 1974, and 1975, respectively, is the excess of the net capital loss for 1970 over the sum of the net capital gains (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) for taxable years prior to 1972, 1973, 1974, or 1975, as the case may be, to which the net capital loss for 1970 may be carried, computed without regard to a capital loss carryback from 1970 or any year thereafter.

# Example 2.
For the taxable years 1967 to 1975, inclusive, a corporation is assumed to have net capital loss, net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976), and taxable income (computed without regard to capital gains and losses) as follows:
1967
1968
1969
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974
1975
Taxable income (computed without regard to capital gains or losses)
$25,000
$25,000
$25,000
$25,000
$25,000
$25,000
$25,000
$25,000
$25,000
Net capital loss
(1,000)
(29,500)
(16,000)
(500)
Net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) (computed without regard to carrybacks or carryovers)
14,000
16,000
8,000
7,500
6,500
Carryback or carryover:
From 1969
(1,000)
From 1970
(14,000)
(15,500)
From 1971
(500)
(7,000)
(7,500)
(1,000)
From 1972
(500)
The net capital loss of 1969, under the rules of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, may not be carried back. Thus, the net capital loss for 1970 is carried back and partially absorbed by the net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) for 1967, and a portion of the net capital losses of both 1970 and 1971 are carried back to 1968. The net capital loss for 1969 is the oldest that may be carried to 1973, and thus, it is the first carried over and absorbed by the net capital gain for 1973. The net capital loss for 1972 (which is not carried back because of the net capital losses in the 3 years preceding 1972) may be carried over to 1973.

# Example 3.
For the taxable years 1967 to 1970, inclusive, a corporation which was organized on January 1, 1967, realized operating income and net capital gains (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) and sustained operating losses and net capital losses as follows:
Operating income or loss (exclusive of capital gain or loss)
Capital gain or loss
1967
$20,000
$24,000
1968
20,000
0
1969
20,000
0
1970
(25,000)
(20,000)
The net capital loss of $20,000 for 1970 is carried back to 1967 and applied against the $24,000 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) realized in that year, reducing such net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) to $4,000. The net operating loss of $25,000 for 1970 is then carried back to 1967 and applied first to eliminate the $20,000 of operating income for that year and then to eliminate the net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) for that year of $4,000 (as reduced by the 1970 capital loss carryback).

# Example 4.
Assume the same facts as in Example 3 but substitute the following figures:
Operating income or loss (exclusive of capital gain or loss)
Capital gain or loss
1967
($20,000)
$24,000
1968
20,000
0
1969
20,000
0
1970
(25,000)
(20,000)
The net capital loss of $20,000 for 1970 is carried back to 1967 and applied against the $24,000 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) realized in that year only to the extent of $4,000, the maximum amount to which the 1970 capital loss carryback can be applied without producing a net operating loss for 1967. The unused $16,000 balance of the 1970 net long-term capital loss can be carried forward to 1971 and subsequent taxable years to the extent provided in subdivision (i)(
b
) of this subparagraph.

# Example 5.
Assume the same facts as in Example 3 but substitute the following figures:
Operating income or loss (exclusive of capital gain or loss)
Capital gain or loss
1967
0
0
1968
($20,000)
0
1969
0
$24,000
1970
20,000
(24,000)
The net capital loss of $24,000 for 1970 is carried back to 1969 and applied against the $24,000 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) realized in that year to the extent of $24,000. The application of the capital loss carryback is not limited as it was in Example 4 because such carryback neither increases nor produces a net operating loss, as such, for 1969. The $20,000 net operating loss for 1968 is then carried forward to 1970 to eliminate the $20,000 of operating income for that year.

# Example 6.
Assume the same facts as in Example 3 but substitute the following figures:
Operating income or loss (exclusive of capital gain or loss)
Capital gain or loss
1967
0
0
1968
0
0
1969
($20,000)
($24,000)
1970
20,000
20,000
The net capital loss of $24,000 for 1969 is carried forward to 1970 and applied against the $20,000 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) realized in that year. The unused $4,000 balance of the 1969 net capital loss can be carried forward to 1971 and subsequent taxable years to the extent provided in subdivision (i)(
b
) of this subparagraph.
(b)
Taxpayers other than corporations for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963
—(1)
In general.
If a taxpayer other than a corporation sustains a net capital loss for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, the portion thereof which is a short-term capital loss carryover shall be carried over to the succeeding taxable year and treated as a short-term capital loss sustained in such succeeding taxable year, and the portion thereof which constitutes a long-term capital loss carryover shall be carried over to the succeeding taxable year and treated as a long-term capital loss sustained in such succeeding taxable year. The carryovers are included in the succeeding taxable year in the determination of the amount of the short-term capital loss, the net short-term capital gain or loss, the long-term capital loss, and the net long-term capital gain or loss in such year, the net capital loss in such year, and the capital loss carryovers from such year. For purposes of this subparagraph:
(i) A short-term capital loss carryover is the excess of the net short-term capital loss for the taxable year over the net long-term capital gain for such year, and
(ii) A long-term capital loss carryover is the excess of the net long-term capital loss for the taxable year over the net short-term capital gain for such year.
(2)
Special rules for determining a net short-term capital gain or loss for purposes of carryover
—(i)
Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963, and before January 1, 1970.
In determining a net short-term capital gain or loss of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, and before January 1, 1970, for purposes of computing a short-term or long-term capital loss carryover to the succeeding taxable year, an amount equal to the additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) for the taxable year (determined as provided in section 1211(b), as in effect for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1970, and § 1.1211-1(b)(5)) is treated as a short-term capital gain occurring in such year.
(ii)
Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969.
In determining a net short-term capital gain or loss of a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969:
(
a
) For purposes of computing a short-term capital loss carryover to the succeeding taxable year, an amount equal to the additional allowance for the taxable year (determined as provided in section 1211(b) and § 1.1211-1(b)(2)) is treated as a short-term capital gain occurring in such year, and
(
b
) For purposes of computing a long-term capital loss carryover to the succeeding taxable year, an amount equal to the sum of the additional allowance for the taxable year (determined as provided in section 1211(b) and § 1.1211-1(b)(2)), plus the excess of such additional allowance over the net short-term capital loss (determined without regard to section 1212(b)(2) for such year) is treated as a short-term capital gain in such year.
The rules provided in this subdivision are for the purpose of taking into account the additional allowance deductible for the current taxable year under section 1211(b) and § 1.1211-1(b)(2) in determining the amount and character of capital loss carryovers from the current taxable year to the succeeding taxable year. Their practical application to a determination of the amount and character of capital loss carryovers from the current taxable year to the succeeding taxable year involves identification of the net long-term and net short-term capital loss components of the additional allowance deductible in the current taxable year as provided by § 1.1211-1(b)(2)(iii). To the extent that the additional allowance is composed of net short-term capital losses, such
losses are treated as a short-term capital gain in the current taxable year in determining the capital loss carryovers to the succeeding year. To the extent that the additional allowance is composed of net long-term capital losses applied pursuant to the provisions of § 1.1211-1(b)(2)(iii), an amount equal to twice the amount of such component of the additional allowance is treated as a short-term capital gain in the current taxable year. See paragraph (4) of this section for transitional rules if any part of the additional allowance is composed of net long-term capital losses carried to the current taxable year from a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1970.
(3)
Transitional rule for net capital losses sustained in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1964.
A taxpayer other than a corporation sustaining a net capital loss for any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1964, shall treat as a short-term capital loss in the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, any amount which would be treated as a short-term capital loss in such year under subchapter P of chapter 1 of the Code as in effect immediately before the enactment of the Revenue Act of 1964.
(4)
Transitional rule for net long-term capital losses sustained in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 1970.
In the case of a net long-term capital loss sustained by a taxpayer other than a corporation in a taxable year beginning prior to January 1, 1970 (referred to in this section as a
pre-1970 taxable year
) which is carried over and treated as a long-term capital loss in the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969 (referred to in this section as a
post-1969 taxable year
), the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) for the taxable year shall be determined by application of section 1211(b) as in effect for pre-1970 taxable years and § 1.1211-1(b)(3), and the amount of such long-term capital loss carried over and treated as a long-term capital loss in the succeeding taxable year shall be determined by application of section 1212(b)(1) as in effect for pre-1970 taxable years and subparagraph (2)(i) of this paragraph (instead of under sections 1211(b) and 1212(b)(1) as in effect for post-1969 taxable years and § 1.1211-1(b)(2) and subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph, respectively) but only to the extent that such pre-1970 long-term capital loss constitutes a
transitional net long-term capital loss component
(determined as provided in § 1.1211-1(b)(3)(ii)) in the taxable year to which such pre-1970 long-term capital loss is carried. Thus, for purposes of paragraph (2) of this section, to the extent that a component of the transitional additional allowance deductible for a post-1969 taxable year under section 1211(b) and § 1.1211-1(b)(3)(i) is a transitional net long-term capital loss component carried over to such post-1969 taxable year, such component shall be treated as a short-term capital gain in determining the amount and character of capital loss carryovers from such post-1969 taxable year to the succeeding taxable year. Such component shall be so treated as a short-term capital gain in full on a dollar-for-dollar basis and shall not be doubled for this purpose as is provided by subdivision (ii) of paragraph (2) of this section in the case of a component of the additional allowance made up of net long-term capital losses applied pursuant to the provisions of § 1.1211-1(b)(2)(iii). The transitional rule provided in this paragraph does not apply to a determination of the character of capital losses (as long-term or short-term) actually deductible for the current taxable year under section 1211(b) and § 1.1211-1(b).
(5)
Examples.
The application of this paragraph can be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
For the taxable year 1971, an unmarried individual has taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) of $8,000, a long-term capital loss of $2,000, and no other capital gains or losses. $1,000 (one-half) of the net long-term capital loss is deductible in 1971 as the additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b). No amount of capital loss remains to be carried over to the succeeding taxable year.

# Example 2.
For the taxable year 1972, the same unmarried individual has taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) of $8,000, a long-term capital loss of $3,000 and no other capital gains or losses. $1,500 (one-half of the excess net capital loss) is deductible in 1972, but limited to the $1,000 maximum additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b). By application of section 1212(b)(1), he will carry over to 1973 a long-term capital loss of $1,000 determined as follows:
Net long-term capital loss
($3,000)
Additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
$1,000
Excess of additional allowance over net short-term capital loss (determined without regard to section 1212(b)(2)(B)(i))
1,000
Total amount treated as short-term capital gain under 1212(b)(2)(B) for purposes of determining carryover
2,000
Long-term capital loss carryover to 1973
(1,000)
If, in 1973, he had taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) of $8,000, but no capital gains or losses, $500 (one-half) of the net long-term capital loss carryover from 1972 would be deductible in 1973 as the additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b). No amount of capital loss would be carried over to 1974.

# Example 3.
For the taxable year 1971, an unmarried individual has taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) of $9,000, a $500 short-term capital gain, a $700 short-term capital loss, a $1,000 long-term capital gain and a $1,700 long-term capital loss. He will offset $1,500 of capital losses against capital gains. The excess net capital loss of $900 is deductible in 1971 to the extent of a $550 additional allowance deductible under 1211(b) which is smaller than both $1,000 and taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b), determined as follows:
Losses allowed to the extent of gains
($1,500)
Amount allowed under section 1211(b)(1)(C):
(i) Excess of net short-term capital loss over net long-term capital gain
(200)
(ii) One-half of the excess of net long-term capital loss over net short-term capital gain
(350)
Additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b)
550
The total amount treated as short-term capital gain under section 1212(b)(2)(B) for purposes of determining any carryover to the succeeding taxable year exceeds $900. No amount of net capital loss remains to be carried over to the succeeding taxable year.

# Example 4.
If in example (3) above, the long-term capital loss had been $2,800, the taxpayer would carry over $200 of long-term capital loss to 1972, determined as follows:
Losses allowed to extent of gains
($1,500)
Amount allowed under section 1211(b)(1) (B) and (C):
(i) Excess of net short-term capital loss over net long-term capital gain
(200)
(ii) One-half the excess of net long-term capital loss over net short-term capital gain
(900)
as limited by 1211(b)(1)(B) to an additional allowance of $1,000.
Carryover under section 1212(b)(1):
Net long-term capital loss for 1971
($1,800)
Additional allowance under section 1211(b)(1)(B)
1,000
Excess of additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) over net short-term capital loss determined without regard to section 1212(b)(2)(B)(i) ($1,000 less $200)
800
Total amount treated as short-term capital gain under section 1212(b)(2)(B) for purposes of determining carryover
1,800
Short-term capital gain for 1971
500
Total short-term capital gain
2,300
Short-term capital loss for 1971
(700)
Net short-term capital gain
1,600
Long-term capital loss carryover ($1,800 less $1,600)
200

# Example 5.
For 1969, an unmarried individual has taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) of $8,000, a long-term capital loss of $3,000, and no other capital gains or losses. He is allowed to deduct in 1969 $1,000 as the additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) (as in effect for pre-1970 taxable years) and to carry over to 1970, a long-term capital loss of $2,000 under section 1212(b) (as in effect for pre-1970 taxable years).
If, in 1970, the same unmarried individual with taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) of $8,000, has no capital gains or losses, he would deduct $1,000 of his pre- 1970 capital loss carryover as the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) (as in effect for pre-1970 years) and carry over under section 1212(b)(1) (as in effect for pre-1970 taxable years) to 1971 the remaining $1,000 as a pre-1970 long-term capital loss.
If, in 1970, the same individual instead has a long-term capital gain of $2,500, and a long-term capital loss of $1,500, he would net these two items with the $2,000 carried to 1970 as a long-term capital loss. Thus, he would have a net long-term capital loss for 1970 of $1,000 which is deductible in 1970 as the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b). He would have no amount to carry over under section 1212(b)(1) to 1971.
If, in 1970, the same individual instead has a long-term capital loss of $1,200, and a long-term capital gain of $200, resulting in a net long-term capital loss of $3,000 when netted with the $2,000 carried to 1970 as a long-term capital loss, he would deduct $1,000 in respect of his pre-1970 long-term capital loss carryover as the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) (as in effect for pre-1970 taxable years) and carry over under section 1212(b)(1) (as in effect for pre-1970 taxable years) to 1971 the remaining $1,000 of the pre-1970 component of his long-term capital loss carryover, and the $1,000 net long-term capital loss actually sustained in 1970 as the second component of his long-term capital loss carryover.

# Example 6.
For 1970 a married individual filing a separate return has taxable income of $8,000, a long-term capital loss of $3,500 and a short-term capital gain of $3,000. He also has a pre-1970 short-term capital loss of $2,000 which is carried to 1970. The $3,000 short-term capital gain realized in 1970 would first be reduced by the $2,000 short-term capital loss carryover, and then the remaining $1,000 balance of the short-term capital gain would be offset against the $3,500 long-term capital loss, producing a net long-term capital loss of $2,500, no part of which is a net long-term capital loss carried over from 1969. However, under the special rule of § 1.1211-1(b)(7)(ii) in 1970, the taxpayer would deduct as the additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b), the $500 limitation in § 1.1211-1(b)(2)(ii) in the case of a married taxpayer filing a separate return in a taxable year ending after December 31, 1969, plus the
transitional net short-term capital loss component
of $2,000 computed under § 1.1211-1(b)(3)(iv), but limited to a total deduction of $1,000. The $1,000 additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) would absorb $2,000 of the $2,500 net long-term capital loss, and he would carry the unused $500 balance of such loss to 1971 for use in that year.

# Example 7.
For 1970, an unmarried individual filing a separate return has taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) of $8,000, and a long-term capital loss of $2,000. He also has a pre-1970 long-term capital loss of $2,500 which is carried to 1970. In 1970, the taxpayer would deduct as the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b) $1,000, absorbing $1,000 of the pre-1970 long-term capital loss of $2,500. He would carry to 1971 the unused $1,500 balance of his pre-1970 long-term capital loss plus the 1970 long-term capital loss of $2,000, or a total of $3,500, for use in 1971.
For 1971, the same taxpayer filing a separate return with taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) of $8,000, has a $3,600 long-term capital gain and a $2,200 long-term capital loss. When these gains and losses are combined with the long-term capital loss carryover from 1970 of $3,500, a net long-term capital loss of $2,100 results. He would deduct $1,000 as the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b). The $1,000 additional allowance would absorb $100 of the unused pre-1970 long-term capital loss carryover of $1,500 plus $1,800 of the unused post-1969 long-term capital loss carryover of $2,100 (the amount of the 1971 net long-term capital loss necessary to make up the remaining $900 balance of the additional allowance). Although a component of the 1971 net long-term capital loss is the unused pre-1970 long-term capital loss carryover of $1,500, only $100 of this carryover is available for use in full on a dollar-for-dollar basis in computing the transitional additional allowance for 1971 since it only exceeds by that amount the $1,400 net capital gain (capital gain net income for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1976) actually realized in 1971 all of which is net long-term capital gain (long-term capital gain of $3,600 reduced by long-term capital loss of $2,200). See § 1.1221-1(b)(3)(ii). The taxpayer would carry over to 1972 as a long-term capital loss the remaining $200 of the 1971 long-term capital loss.

# Example 8.
For 1970, an unmarried individual has taxable income for purposes of section 1211(b) of $8,000 and a short-term capital loss of $700. He also has a pre-1970 long-term capital loss carryover of $1,200. He would deduct $1,000 as the transitional additional allowance deductible under section 1211(b). The $1,000 transitional additional allowance would be composed of the 1970 short-term capital loss of $700 and $300 of the pre-1970 long-term capital loss carryover. He would carry over to 1971 the unused $900 balance of his $1,200 pre-1970 long-term capital loss carryover for use in 1971.
(c)
Husband and wife.
(1) The following rules shall be applied in computing capital loss carryovers by husband and wife:
(i) If a husband and wife making a joint return for any taxable year made separate returns for the preceding year, any capital loss carryovers of each spouse from such preceding taxable year may be carried forward to the taxable year in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(ii) If a joint return was made for the preceding taxable year, any capital loss carryover from such preceding taxable year may be carried forward to the taxable year in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(iii) If a husband and wife make separate returns for the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, or any prior taxable year, and they made a joint return for the preceding taxable year, any capital loss carryover from such preceding taxable year shall be allocated to the spouses on the basis of their individual net capital loss which gave rise to such capital loss carryover. The capital loss carryover so allocated to each spouse may be carried forward by such spouse to the taxable year in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(iv) If a husband and wife making separate returns for any taxable year following the first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1963, made a
joint return for the preceding taxable year, any long-term or short-term capital loss carryovers shall be allocated to the spouses on the basis of their individual net long-term and net short-term capital losses for the preceding taxable year which gave rise to such capital loss carryovers, and the portions of the long-term or short-term capital loss carryovers so allocated to each spouse may be carried forward by such spouse to the taxable year in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(v) If separate returns are made both for the taxable year and the preceding taxable year, any capital loss carryover of each spouse may be carried forward by such spouse in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.
(2) The provisions of subparagraph (1) (i), (iii), and (iv) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
If H and W, husband and wife, make a joint return for 1955, having made separate returns for 1954 in which H had a net capital loss of $3,000 and W had a net capital loss of $2,000, in their joint return for 1955 they would have a short-term capital loss of $5,000 (the sum of their separate capital loss carryovers from 1954), allowable in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. If, on the other hand, they make separate returns in 1955 following a joint return in 1954 in which their net capital loss was $5,000 allocable $3,000 to H and $2,000 to W, the carryover of H as a short-term capital loss for the purpose of his 1955 separate return would be $3,000 and that of W for her separate return would be $2,000, each allowable in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

# Example 2.
H and W, husband and wife, make separate returns for 1966 following a joint return for 1965. The capital gains and losses incurred by H and W in 1965, including those carried over by them to 1965, were as follows:
H
W
Long-term capital gains
$8,000
$9,000
Long-term capital losses
(15,000)
(6,000)
Short-term capital gains
10,000
4,000
Short-term capital losses
(19,000)
(5,000)
Thus, in 1965 H and W had a net capital loss of $14,000 on their joint return. Of this amount, $4,000 was a long-term capital loss carryover, and $10,000 was a short-term capital loss carryover, determined in accordance paragraph (b) of this section. H's net long-term capital loss was $7,000 for 1965. This amount was offset on the joint return by W's net long-term capital gain of $3,000. Thus, H may carry over to his separate return for 1966, a long-term capital loss carryover of $4,000. H and W may carry over to their separate returns for 1966, as short-term capital loss carryovers, the amounts of their respective net short-term losses from 1965, $9,000 and $1,000.
[T.D. 6828, 30 FR 7806, June 17, 1965, as amended by T.D. 6867, 30 FR 15095, Dec. 7, 1965; T.D. 7301, 39 FR 968, Jan. 4, 1974; 39 FR 2758, Jan. 24, 1974; T.D. 7659, 44 FR 73019, Dec. 17, 1979; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]

# General Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
§ 1.1221-1
Meaning of terms.
(a) The term
capital assets
includes all classes of property not specifically excluded by section 1221. In determining whether property is a
capital asset,
the period for which held is immaterial.
(b) Property used in the trade or business of a taxpayer of a character which is subject to the allowance for depreciation provided in section 167 and real property used in the trade or business of a taxpayer is excluded from the term
capital assets.
Gains and losses from the sale or exchange of such property are not treated as gains and losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets, except to the extent provided in section 1231. See § 1.1231-1. Property held for the production of income, but not used in a trade or business of the taxpayer, is not excluded from the term
capital assets
even though depreciation may have been allowed with respect to such property under section 23(l) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 before its amendment by section 121(c) of the Revenue Act of 1942 (56 Stat. 819). However, gain or loss upon the sale or exchange of land held by a taxpayer primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his business, as in the case of a dealer in real estate, is not subject to the provisions of subchapter P (section 1201 and following), chapter 1 of the Code.
(c)(1) A copyright, a literary, musical, or artistic composition, and similar property are excluded from the term
capital assets
if held by a taxpayer whose personal efforts created such property, or if held by a taxpayer in whose hands the basis of such property
is determined, for purposes of determining gain from a sale or exchange, in whole or in part by reference to the basis of such property in the hands of a taxpayer whose personal efforts created such property. For purposes of this subparagraph, the phrase
similar property
includes for example, such property as a theatrical production, a radio program, a newspaper cartoon strip, or any other property eligible for copyright protection (whether under statute or common law), but does not include a patent or an invention, or a design which may be protected only under the patent law and not under the copyright law.
(2) In the case of sales and other dispositions occurring after July 25, 1969, a letter, a memorandum, or similar property is excluded from the term
capital asset
if held by (i) a taxpayer whose personal efforts created such property, (ii) a taxpayer for whom such property was prepared or produced, or (iii) a taxpayer in whose hands the basis of such property is determined, for purposes of determining gain from a sale or exchange, in whole or in part by reference to the basis of such property in the hands of a taxpayer described in subdivision (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph. In the case of a collection of letters, memorandums, or similar property held by a person who is a taxpayer described in subdivision (i), (ii), or (iii) of this subparagraph as to some of such letters, memorandums, or similar property but not as to others, this subparagraph shall apply only to those letters, memorandums, or similar property as to which such person is a taxpayer described in such subdivision. For purposes of this subparagraph, the phrase
similar property
includes, for example, such property as a draft of a speech, a manuscript, a research paper, an oral recording of any type, a transcript of an oral recording, a transcript of an oral interview or of dictation, a personal or business diary, a log or journal, a corporate archive, including a corporate charter, office correspondence, a financial record, a drawing, a photograph, or a dispatch. A letter, memorandum, or property similar to a letter or memorandum, addressed to a taxpayer shall be considered as prepared or produced for him. This subparagraph does not apply to property, such as a corporate archive, office correspondence, or a financial record, sold or disposed of as part of a going business if such property has no significant value separate and apart from its relation to and use in such business; it also does not apply to any property to which subparagraph (1) of this paragraph applies (i.e., property to which section 1221(3) applied before its amendment by section 514(a) of the Tax Reform Act of 1969 (83 Stat. 643)).
(3) For purposes of this paragraph, in general, property is created in whole or in part by the personal efforts of a taxpayer if such taxpayer performs literary, theatrical, musical, artistic, or other creative or productive work which affirmatively contributes to the creation of the property, or if such taxpayer directs and guides others in the performance of such work. A taxpayer, such as corporate executive, who merely has administrative control of writers, actors, artists, or personnel and who does not substantially engage in the direction and guidance of such persons in the performance of their work, does not create property by his personal efforts. However, for purposes of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, a letter or memorandum, or property similar to a letter or memorandum, which is prepared by personnel who are under the administrative control of a taxpayer, such as a corporate executive, shall be deemed to have been prepared or produced for him whether or not such letter, memorandum, or similar property is reviewed by him.
(4) For the application of section 1231 to the sale or exchange of property to which this paragraph applies, see § 1.1231-1. For the application of section 170 to the charitable contribution of property to which this paragraph applies, see section 170(e) and the regulations thereunder.
(d) Section 1221(4) excludes from the definition of
capital asset
accounts or notes receivable acquired in the ordinary course of trade or business for services rendered or from the sale of stock in trade or inventory or property held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of trade or business. Thus, if a taxpayer acquires a note receivable for services rendered, reports the fair
market value of the note as income, and later sells the note for less than the amount previously reported, the loss is an ordinary loss. On the other hand, if the taxpayer later sells the note for more than the amount originally reported, the excess is treated as ordinary income.
(e) Obligations of the United States or any of its possessions, or of a State or Territory, or any political subdivision thereof, or of the District of Columbia, issued on or after March 1, 1941, on a discount basis and payable without interest at a fixed maturity date not exceeding one year from the date of issue, are excluded from the term
capital assets.
An obligation may be issued on a discount basis even though the price paid exceeds the face amount. Thus, although the Second Liberty Bond Act (31 U.S.C. 754) provides that United States Treasury bills shall be issued on a discount basis, the issuing price paid for a particular bill may, by reason of competitive bidding, actually exceed the face amount of the bill. Since the obligations of the type described in this paragraph are excluded from the term
capital assets,
gains or losses from the sale or exchange of such obligations are not subject to the limitations provided in such subchapter P. It is, therefore, not necessary for a taxpayer (other than a life insurance company taxable under part I (section 801 and following), subchapter L, chapter 1 of the Code, as amended by the Life Insurance Company Tax Act of 1955 (70 Stat. 36), and, in the case of taxable years beginning before January 1, 1955, subject to taxation only on interest, dividends, and rents) to segregate the original discount accrued and the gain or loss realized upon the sale or other disposition of any such obligation. See section 454(b) with respect to the original discount accrued. The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A (not a life insurance company) buys a $100,000, 90-day Treasury bill upon issuance for $99,998. As of the close of the forty-fifth day of the life of such bill, he sells it to B (not a life insurance company) for $99,999.50. The entire net gain to A of $1.50 may be taken into account as a single item of income, without allocating $1 to interest and $0.50 to gain. If B holds the bill until maturity his net gain of $0.50 may similarly be taken into account as a single item of income, without allocating $1 to interest and $0.50 to loss.

# Example 2.
The facts in this example are the same as in example (1) except that the selling price to B is $99,998.50. The net gain to A of $0.50 may be taken into account without allocating $1 to interest and $0.50 to loss, and, similarly, if B holds the bill until maturity his entire net gain of $1.50 may be taken into account as a single item of income without allocating $1 to interest and $0.50 to gain.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12003, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7369, 40 FR 29840, July 16, 1975]
§ 1.1221-2
Hedging transactions.
(a)
Treatment of hedging transactions
—(1)
In general.
This section governs the treatment of hedging transactions under section 1221(a)(7). Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the term capital asset does not include property that is part of a hedging transaction (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section).
(2)
Short sales and options.
This section also governs the character of gain or loss from a short sale or option that is part of a hedging transaction. Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, gain or loss on a short sale or option that is part of a hedging transaction (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) is ordinary income or loss.
(3)
Exclusivity.
If a transaction is not a hedging transaction as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, gain or loss from the transaction is not made ordinary on the grounds that property involved in the transaction is a surrogate for a noncapital asset, that the transaction serves as insurance against a business risk, that the transaction serves a hedging function, or that the transaction serves a similar function or purpose.
(4)
Coordination with section 988.
This section does not apply to determine the character of gain or loss realized on a section 988 transaction as defined in section 988(c)(1) or realized with respect to any qualified fund as defined in section 988(c)(1)(E)(iii).
(b)
Hedging transaction defined.
Section 1221(b)(2)(A) provides that a hedging transaction is any transaction that a taxpayer enters into in the normal
course of the taxpayer's trade or business primarily—
(1) To manage risk of price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to ordinary property (as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section) that is held or to be held by the taxpayer;
(2) To manage risk of interest rate or price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made, or ordinary obligations incurred or to be incurred, by the taxpayer; or
(3) To manage such other risks as the Secretary may prescribe in regulations (see paragraph (d)(6) of this section).
(c)
General rules
—(1)
Normal course.
Solely for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, if a transaction is entered into in furtherance of a taxpayer's trade or business, the transaction is entered into in the normal course of the taxpayer's trade or business. This rule includes managing risks relating to the expansion of an existing business or the acquisition of a new trade or business.
(2)
Ordinary property and obligations.
Property is ordinary property to a taxpayer only if a sale or exchange of the property by the taxpayer could not produce capital gain or loss under any circumstances. Thus, for example, property used in a trade or business within the meaning of section 1231(b) (determined without regard to the holding period specified in that section) is not ordinary property. An obligation is an ordinary obligation if performance or termination of the obligation by the taxpayer could not produce capital gain or loss. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), the term termination has the same meaning as it does in section 1234A.
(3)
Hedging an aggregate risk.
The term hedging transaction includes a transaction that manages an aggregate risk of interest rate changes, price changes, and/or currency fluctuations only if all of the risk, or all but a de minimis amount of the risk, is with respect to ordinary property, ordinary obligations, or borrowings.
(4)
Managing risk
—(i)
In general.
Whether a transaction manages a taxpayer's risk is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances surrounding the taxpayer's business and the transaction. Whether a transaction manages a taxpayer's risk may be determined on a business unit by business unit basis (for example by treating particular groups of activities, including the assets and liabilities attributable to those activities, as separate business units), provided that the business unit is within a single entity or consolidated return group that adopts the single-entity approach. A taxpayer's hedging strategies and policies as reflected in the taxpayer's minutes or other records are evidence of whether particular transactions were entered into primarily to manage the taxpayer's risk.
(ii)
Limitation of risk management transactions to those specifically described.
Except as otherwise determined by published guidance or by private letter ruling, a transaction that is not treated as a hedging transaction under paragraph (d) does not manage risk. Moreover, a transaction undertaken for speculative purposes will not be treated as a hedging transaction.
(d)
Transactions that manage risk
—(1)
Risk reduction transactions
—(i)
In general.
A transaction that is entered into to reduce a taxpayer's risk, manages a taxpayer's risk.
(ii)
Micro and macro hedges
—(A)
In general.
A taxpayer generally has risk of a particular type only if it is at risk when all of its operations are considered. Nonetheless, a hedge of a particular asset or liability generally will be respected as reducing risk if it reduces the risk attributable to the asset or liability and if it is reasonably expected to reduce the overall risk of the taxpayer's operations. If a taxpayer hedges particular assets or liabilities, or groups of assets or liabilities, and the hedges are undertaken as part of a program that, as a whole, is reasonably expected to reduce the overall risk of the taxpayer's operations, the taxpayer generally does not have to demonstrate that each hedge that was entered into pursuant to the program reduces its overall risk.
(B)
Example.
The following example illustrates the rules stated in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section:

# Example.
Corporation X manages its business operations by treating particular groups
of activities, including the assets and liabilities attributable to those assets, as separate business units. A separate set of books and records is maintained with respect to the activities, assets and liabilities of separate business unit
y.
As part of a risk management program that Corporation X reasonably expects to reduce the overall risks of its business operations, Corporation X enters into hedges to reduce the risks of separate business unit
y.
Corporation X may demonstrate that the hedges reduce risk by taking into account only the activities, assets and liabilities of business unit
y.
(iii)
Written options.
A written option may reduce risk. For example, in appropriate circumstances, a written call option with respect to assets held by a taxpayer or a written put option with respect to assets to be acquired by a taxpayer may be a hedging transaction. See also paragraph (d)(3) of this section.
(iv)
Fixed-to-floating price hedges.
Under the principles of paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, a transaction that economically converts a price from a fixed price to a floating price may reduce risk. For example, a taxpayer with a fixed cost for its inventory may be at risk if the price at which the inventory can be sold varies with a particular factor. Thus, for such a taxpayer a transaction that converts its fixed price to a floating price may be a hedging transaction.
(2)
Interest rate conversions.
A transaction that economically converts an interest rate from a fixed rate to a floating rate or that converts an interest rate from a floating rate to a fixed rate manages risk.
(3)
Transactions that counteract hedging transactions.
If a transaction is entered into primarily to offset all or any part of the risk management effected by one or more hedging transactions, the transaction is a hedging transaction. For example, if a written option is used to reduce or eliminate the risk reduction obtained from another position such as a purchased option, then it may be a hedging transaction.
(4)
Recycling.
A taxpayer may enter into a hedging transaction by using a position that was a hedge of one asset or liability as a hedge of another asset or liability (recycling).
(5)
Transactions not entered into primarily to manage risk
—(i)
Rule.
Except as otherwise determined in published guidance or private letter ruling, the purchase or sale of a debt instrument, an equity security, or an annuity contract is not a hedging transaction even if the transaction limits or reduces the taxpayer's risk with respect to ordinary property, borrowings, or ordinary obligations. In addition, the Commissioner may determine in published guidance that other transactions are not hedging transactions.
(ii)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the rule stated in paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer borrows money and agrees to pay a floating rate of interest. Taxpayer purchases debt instruments that bear a comparable floating rate. Although taxpayer's interest rate risk from the floating rate borrowing may be reduced by the purchase of the debt instruments, the acquisition of the debt instruments is not a hedging transaction, because the transaction is not entered into primarily to manage the taxpayer's risk.

# Example 2.
Taxpayer undertakes obligations to pay compensation in the future. The amount of the future compensation payments is adjusted as if amounts were invested in a specified mutual fund and were increased or decreased by the earnings, gains and losses that would result from such an investment. Taxpayer invests funds in the shares of the mutual fund. Although the investment in shares of the mutual fund reduces the taxpayer's risk of fluctuation in the amount of its obligation to employees, the investment was not made primarily to manage the taxpayer's risk. Accordingly, the transaction is not a hedging transaction.

# Example 3.
Taxpayer provides a nonqualified retirement plan for employees that is structured like a defined contribution plan. Based on a schedule that takes into account an employee's monthly salary and years of service with the taxpayer, the taxpayer makes monthly credits to an account for each employee. Each employee may designate that the account will be treated as if it were used to pay premiums on a variable annuity contract issued by the M insurance company with a value that reflects a specified investment option. M offers a number of investment options for its variable annuity contracts. Taxpayer invests funds in M company variable annuity contracts that parallel the investment options selected by the employees. The investment is not made primarily to manage the taxpayer's risk and is not a hedging transaction.
(6)
Hedges of other risks.
The Commissioner may, by published guidance, determine that hedging transactions include transactions entered into to manage risks other than interest rate or price changes, or currency fluctuations.
(7)
Miscellaneous provision
—(i)
Extent of risk management.
A taxpayer may hedge all or any portion of its risk for all or any part of the period during which it is exposed to the risk.
(ii)
Number of transactions.
The fact that a taxpayer frequently enters into and terminates positions (even if done on a daily or more frequent basis) is not relevant to whether these transactions are hedging transactions. Thus, for example, a taxpayer hedging the risk associated with an asset or liability may frequently establish and terminate positions that hedge that risk, depending on the extent the taxpayer wishes to be hedged. Similarly, if a taxpayer maintains its level of risk exposure by entering into and terminating a large number of transactions in a single day, its transactions may nonetheless qualify as hedging transactions.
(e)
Hedging by members of a consolidated group
—(1)
General rule: single-entity approach.
For purposes of this section, the risk of one member of a consolidated group is treated as the risk of the other members as if all of the members of the group were divisions of a single corporation. For example, if any member of a consolidated group hedges the risk of another member of the group by entering into a transaction with a third party, that transaction may potentially qualify as a hedging transaction. Conversely, intercompany transactions are not hedging transactions because, when considered as transactions between divisions of a single corporation, they do not manage the risk of that single corporation.
(2)
Separate-entity election.
In lieu of the single-entity approach specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a consolidated group may elect separate-entity treatment of its hedging transactions. If a group makes this separate-entity election, the following rules apply:
(i)
Risk of one member not risk of other members.
Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the risk of one member is not treated as the risk of other members.
(ii)
Intercompany transactions.
An intercompany transaction is a hedging transaction (an intercompany hedging transaction) with respect to a member of a consolidated group if and only if it meets the following requirements—
(A) The position of the member in the intercompany transaction would qualify as a hedging transaction with respect to the member (taking into account paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section) if the member had entered into the transaction with an unrelated party; and
(B) The position of the other member (the marking member) in the transaction is marked to market under the marking member's method of accounting.
(iii)
Treatment of intercompany hedging transactions.
An intercompany hedging transaction (that is, a transaction that meets the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section) is subject to the following rules—
(A) The character and timing rules of § 1.1502-13 do not apply to the income, deduction, gain, or loss from the intercompany hedging transaction; and
(B) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, the character of the marking member's gain or loss from the transaction is ordinary.
(iv)
Making and revoking the election.
Unless the Commissioner otherwise prescribes, the election described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section must be made in a separate statement that provides, “[INSERT NAME AND EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OF COMMON PARENT] HEREBY ELECTS THE APPLICATION OF § 1.1221-2(e)(2) (THE SEPARATE-ENTITY APPROACH).” The statement must also indicate the date as of which the election is to be effective. The election must be filed by including the statement on or with the consolidated group's income tax return for the taxable year that includes the first date for which the election is to apply. The election applies to all transactions entered into on or after the date so indicated. The election may only be revoked with the consent of the Commissioner.
(3)
Definitions.
For definitions of consolidated group, divisions of a single corporation, group, intercompany transactions, and member, see section 1502 and the regulations thereunder.
(4)
Examples. General Facts.
In these examples,
O
and
H
are members of the same consolidated group.
O
's business operations give rise to interest rate risk “
A
,” which
O
wishes to hedge.
O
enters into an intercompany transaction with
H
that transfers the risk to
H. O
's position in the intercompany transaction is “
B
,” and
H
's position in the transaction is “
C.
”
H
enters into position “
D
” with a third party to reduce the interest rate risk it has with respect to its position
C. D
would be a hedging transaction with respect to risk
A
if
O
's risk
A
were
H
's risk. The following examples illustrate this paragraph (e):

# Example 1. Single-entity treatment.
(i)
General rule.
Under paragraph (e)(1) of this section,
O
's risk
A
is treated as
H
's risk, and therefore
D
is a hedging transaction with respect to risk
A.
Thus, the character of
D
is determined under the rules of this section, and the income, deduction, gain, or loss from
D
must be accounted for under a method of accounting that satisfies § 1.446-4. The intercompany transaction
B-C
is not a hedging transaction and is taken into account under § 1.1502-13.
(ii)
Identification. D
must be identified as a hedging transaction under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, and
A
must be identified as the hedged item under paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Under paragraph (f)(5) of this section, the identification of
A
as the hedged item can be accomplished by identifying the positions in the intercompany transaction as hedges or hedged items, as appropriate. Thus, substantially contemporaneous with entering into
D, H
may identify
C
as the hedged item and
O
may identify
B
as a hedge and
A
as the hedged item.

# Example 2. Separate-entity election; counterparty that does not mark to market.
In addition to the
General Facts
stated above, assume that the group makes a separate-entity election under paragraph (e)(2) of this section. If
H
does not mark
C
to market under its method of accounting, then
B
is not a hedging transaction, and the
B-C
intercompany transaction is taken into account under the rules of section 1502.
D
is not a hedging transaction with respect to
A,
but
D
may be a hedging transaction with respect to
C
if
C
is ordinary property or an ordinary obligation and if the other requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are met. If
D
is not part of a hedging transaction, then
D
may be part of a straddle for purposes of section 1092.
ER20MR02.002

# Example 3. Separate-entity election; counterparty that marks to market.
The facts are the same as in
Example 2
above, except that
H
marks
C
to market under its method of accounting. Also assume that
B
would be a hedging transaction with respect to risk
A
if
O
had entered into that transaction with an unrelated party. Thus, for
O,
the
B-C
transaction is an intercompany hedging transaction with respect to
O
's risk
A,
the character and timing rules of § 1.1502-13 do not apply to the
B-C
transaction, and
H
's income, deduction, gain, or loss from
C
is ordinary. However, other attributes of the items from the
B-C
transaction are determined under § 1.1502-13.
D
is a hedging transaction with respect to
C
if it meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(f)
Identification and recordkeeping
—(1)
Same-day identification of hedging transactions.
Under section 1221(a)(7), a taxpayer that enters into a hedging transaction (including recycling an existing hedging transaction) must clearly identify it as a hedging transaction before the close of the day on which the taxpayer acquired, originated, or entered into the transaction (or recycled the existing hedging transaction).
(2)
Substantially contemporaneous identification of hedged item
—(i)
Content of the identification.
A taxpayer that enters into a hedging transaction must identify the item, items, or aggregate risk being hedged. Identification of an item being hedged generally involves identifying a transaction that creates risk, and the type of risk that the transaction creates. For example, if a taxpayer is hedging the price risk with respect to its June purchases of corn inventory, the transaction being hedged is the June purchase of corn and the risk is price movements in the market where the taxpayer buys its corn. For additional rules concerning the content of this identification, see paragraph (f)(3) of this section.
(ii)
Timing of the identification.
The identification required by this paragraph (f)(2) must be made substantially contemporaneously with entering into the hedging transaction. An identification is not substantially contemporaneous if it is made more than 35 days after entering into the hedging transaction.
(3)
Identification requirements for certain hedging transactions.
In the case of the hedging transactions described in this paragraph (f)(3), the identification under paragraph (f)(2) of this section must include the information specified.
(i)
Anticipatory asset hedges.
If the hedging transaction relates to the anticipated acquisition of assets by the taxpayer, the identification must include the expected date or dates of acquisition and the amounts expected to be acquired.
(ii)
Inventory hedges.
If the hedging transaction relates to the purchase or sale of inventory by the taxpayer, the identification is made by specifying the type or class of inventory to which the transaction relates. If the hedging transaction relates to specific purchases or sales, the identification must also include the expected dates of the purchases or sales and the amounts to be purchased or sold.
(iii)
Hedges of debt of the taxpayer
—(A)
Existing debt.
If the hedging transaction relates to accruals or payments under an issue of existing debt of the taxpayer, the identification must specify the issue and, if the hedge is for less than the full issue price or the full term of the debt, the amount of the issue price and the term covered by the hedge.
(B)
Debt to be issued.
If the hedging transaction relates to the expected issuance of debt by the taxpayer or to accruals or payments under debt that is expected to be issued by the taxpayer, the identification must specify the following information: the expected date of issuance of the debt; the expected maturity or maturities; the total expected issue price; and the expected interest provisions. If the hedge is for less than the entire expected issue price of the debt or the full expected term of the debt, the identification must also include the amount or the term being hedged. The identification may indicate a range of dates, terms, and amounts, rather than specific dates, terms, or amounts. For example, a taxpayer might identify a transaction as hedging the yield on an anticipated issuance of fixed rate debt during the second half of its fiscal year, with the anticipated amount of the debt between $75 million and $125 million, and an anticipated term of approximately 20 to 30 years.
(iv)
Hedges of aggregate risk
—(A)
Required identification.
If a transaction hedges aggregate risk as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the identification under paragraph (f)(2) of this section must include a description of the risk being hedged and of the hedging program under which the hedging transaction was entered. This requirement may be met by placing in the taxpayer's records a description of the hedging program and by establishing a system under which individual transactions can be identified as being entered into pursuant to the program.
(B)
Description of hedging program.
A description of a hedging program must include an identification of the type of risk being hedged, a description of the type of items giving rise to the risk being aggregated, and sufficient additional information to demonstrate that the program is designed to reduce aggregate risk of the type identified. If the program contains controls on speculation (for example, position limits), the description of the hedging program must also explain how the controls are
established, communicated, and implemented.
(v)
Transactions that counteract hedging transactions.
If the hedging transaction is described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the description of the hedging transaction must include an identification of the risk management transaction that is being offset and the original underlying hedged item.
(4)
Manner of identification and records to be retained
—(i)
Inclusion of identification in tax records.
The identification required by this paragraph (f) must be made on, and retained as part of, the taxpayer's books and records.
(ii)
Presence of identification must be unambiguous.
The presence of an identification for purposes of this paragraph (f) must be unambiguous. The identification of a hedging transaction for financial accounting or regulatory purposes does not satisfy this requirement unless the taxpayer's books and records indicate that the identification is also being made for tax purposes. The taxpayer may indicate that individual hedging transactions, or a class or classes of hedging transactions, that are identified for financial accounting or regulatory purposes are also being identified as hedging transactions for purposes of this section.
(iii)
Manner of identification.
The taxpayer may separately and explicitly make each identification, or, so long as paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section is satisfied, the taxpayer may establish a system pursuant to which the identification is indicated by the type of transaction or by the manner in which the transaction is consummated or recorded. An identification under this system is made at the later of the time that the system is established or the time that the transaction satisfies the terms of the system by being entered, or by being consummated or recorded, in the designated fashion.
(iv)
Principles of paragraph (f)(4)(iii) of this section illustrated.
Paragraphs (f)(4)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section illustrate the principles of paragraph (f)(4)(iii) of this section and assume that the other requirements of this paragraph (f) are satisfied.
(A) A taxpayer can make an identification by designating a hedging transaction for (or placing it in) an account that has been identified as containing only hedges of a specified item (or of specified items or specified aggregate risk).
(B) A taxpayer can make an identification by including and retaining in its books and records a statement that designates all future transactions in a specified derivative product as hedges of a specified item, items, or aggregate risk.
(C) A taxpayer can make an identification by designating a certain mark, a certain form, or a certain legend as meaning that a transaction is a hedge of a specified item (or of specified items or a specified aggregate risk). Identification can be made by placing the designated mark on a record of the transaction (for example, trading ticket, purchase order, or trade confirmation) or by using the designated form or a record that contains the designated legend.
(5)
Identification of hedges involving members of the same consolidated group
—(i)
General rule: single-entity approach.
A member of a consolidated group must satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (f) as if all of the members of the group were divisions of a single corporation. Thus, the member entering into the hedging transaction with a third party must identify the hedging transaction under paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, that member must also identify the item, items, or aggregate risk that is being hedged, even if the item, items, or aggregate risk relates primarily or entirely to other members of the group. If the members of a group use intercompany transactions to transfer risk within the group, the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section may be met by identifying the intercompany transactions, and the risks hedged by the intercompany transactions, as hedges or hedged items, as appropriate. Because identification of the intercompany transaction as a hedge serves solely to identify the hedged item, the identification is timely if made within the period required by paragraph (f)(2) of this section. For example, if a member transfers risk in an intercompany transaction, it may identify under the rules of this paragraph (f) both its position
in that transaction and the item, items, or aggregate risk being hedged. The member that hedges the risk outside the group may identify under the rules of this paragraph (f) both its position with the third party and its position in the intercompany transaction. Paragraph (e)(4)
Example 1
of this section illustrates this identification.
(ii)
Rule for consolidated groups making the separate-entity election.
If a consolidated group makes the separate-entity election under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, each member of the group must satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (f) as though it were not a member of a consolidated group.
(6)
Consistency with section 1256(e)(2).
Any identification for purposes of section 1256(e)(2) is also an identification for purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g)
Effect of identification and non-identification
—(1)
Transactions identified
—(i)
In general.
If a taxpayer identifies a transaction as a hedging transaction for purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the identification is binding with respect to gain, whether or not all of the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section are satisfied. Thus, gain from that transaction is ordinary income. If the transaction is not in fact a hedging transaction described in paragraph (b) of this section, however, paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply and the character of loss is determined without reference to whether the transaction is a surrogate for a noncapital asset, serves as insurance against a business risk, serves a hedging function, or serves a similar function or purpose. Thus, the taxpayer's identification of the transaction as a hedging transaction does not itself make loss from the transaction ordinary.
(ii)
Inadvertent identification.
Notwithstanding paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, if the taxpayer identifies a transaction as a hedging transaction for purposes of paragraph (f) of this section, the character of the gain is determined as if the transaction had not been identified as a hedging transaction if—
(A) The transaction is not a hedging transaction (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section);
(B) The identification of the transaction as a hedging transaction was due to inadvertent error; and
(C) All of the taxpayer's transactions in all open years are being treated on either original or, if necessary, amended returns in a manner consistent with the principles of this section.
(2)
Transactions not identified
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, the absence of an identification that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f)(1) of this section is binding and establishes that a transaction is not a hedging transaction. Thus, subject to the exceptions, the rules of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply, and the character of gain or loss is determined without reference to whether the transaction is a surrogate for a noncapital asset, serves as insurance against a business risk, serves a hedging function, or serves a similar function or purpose.
(ii)
Inadvertent error.
If a taxpayer does not make an identification that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section, the taxpayer may treat gain or loss from the transaction as ordinary income or loss under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section if—
(A) The transaction is a hedging transaction (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section);
(B) The failure to identify the transaction was due to inadvertent error; and
(C) All of the taxpayer's hedging transactions in all open years are being treated on either original or, if necessary, amended returns as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
(iii)
Anti-abuse rule.
If a taxpayer does not make an identification that satisfies all the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section but the taxpayer has no reasonable grounds for treating the transaction as other than a hedging transaction, then gain from the transaction is ordinary. The reasonableness of the taxpayer's failure to identify a transaction is determined by taking into consideration not only the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section but also the taxpayer's treatment of the transaction for financial accounting or other purposes and the
taxpayer's identification of similar transactions as hedging transactions.
(3)
Transactions by members of a consolidated group
—(i)
Single-entity approach.
If a consolidated group is under the general rule of paragraph (e)(1) of this section (the single-entity approach), the rules of this paragraph (g) apply only to transactions that are not intercompany transactions.
(ii)
Separate-entity election.
If a consolidated group has made the election under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, then, in addition to the rules of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, the following rules apply:
(A) If an intercompany transaction is identified as a hedging transaction but does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, then, notwithstanding any contrary provision in § 1.1502-13, each party to the transaction is subject to the rules of paragraph (g)(1) of this section with respect to the transaction as though it had incorrectly identified its position in the transaction as a hedging transaction.
(B) If a transaction meets the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section but the transaction is not identified as a hedging transaction, each party to the transaction is subject to the rules of paragraph (g)(2) of this section. (Because the transaction is an intercompany hedging transaction, the character and timing rules of § 1.1502-13 do not apply. See paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(A) of this section.)
(h)
Effective date.
The rules of this section apply to transactions entered into on or after March 20, 2002.
(i) [Reserved]. For further guidance, see § 1.1221-2T(i) through (j)(1).
(j)
Effective/applicability date.
Paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section applies to any original consolidated Federal income tax return due (without extensions) after June 14, 2007. For original consolidated Federal income tax returns due (without extensions) after May 30, 2006, and on or before June 14, 2007, see § 1.1221-2T as contained in 26 CFR part 1 in effect on April 1, 2007. For original consolidated Federal income tax returns due (without extensions) on or before May 30, 2006, see § 1.1221-2 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 in effect on April 1, 2006.
[T.D. 8985, 67 FR 12865, Mar. 20, 2002, as amended by T.D. 9264, 71 FR 30602, May 30, 2006; T.D. 9329, 72 FR 32804, June 14, 2007]
§ 1.1221-3
Time and manner for electing capital asset treatment for certain self-created musical works.
(a)
Description.
Section 1221(b)(3) allows an electing taxpayer to treat the sale or exchange of a musical composition or a copyright in a musical work created by the taxpayer's personal efforts (or having a basis determined by reference to the basis of such property in the hands of a taxpayer whose personal efforts created such property) as the sale or exchange of a capital asset. As a consequence, gain or loss from the sale or exchange is treated as capital gain or loss.
(b)
Time and manner for making the election.
An election described in this section is made separately for each musical composition (or copyright in a musical work) sold or exchanged during the taxable year. An election must be made on or before the due date (including extensions) of the income tax return for the taxable year of the sale or exchange. The election is made on Schedule D, “Capital Gains and Losses,” of the appropriate income tax form (for example, Form 1040, “U.S. Individual Income Tax Return;” Form 1065, “U.S. Return of Partnership Income;” Form 1120, “U.S. Corporation Income Tax Return”) by treating the sale or exchange as the sale or exchange of a capital asset, in accordance with the form and its instructions.
(c)
Revocability of election.
The election described in this section is revocable with the consent of the Commissioner. To seek consent to revoke the election, a taxpayer must submit a request for a letter ruling under the applicable administrative procedures. Alternatively, an automatic extension of 6 months from the due date of the taxpayer's income tax return (excluding extensions) is granted to revoke the election, provided the taxpayer timely filed the taxpayer's income tax return and, within this 6-month extension period, the taxpayer files an amended income tax return that treats the sale or
exchange as the sale or exchange of property that is not a capital asset.
(d)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies to elections under section 1221(b)(3) in taxable years beginning after May 17, 2006.
[T.D. 9514, 76 FR 6554, Feb. 7, 2011]
§ 1.1222-1
Other terms relating to capital gains and losses.
(a) The phrase
short-term
applies to the category of gains and losses arising from the sale or exchange of capital assets held for 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) or less; the phrase
long-term
to the category of gains and losses arising from the sale or exchange of capital assets held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977). The fact that some part of a loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset may be finally disallowed because of the operation of section 1211 does not mean that such loss is not
taken into account in computing taxable income
within the meaning of that phrase as used in sections 1222(2) and 1222(4).
(b)(1) In the definition of
net short-term capital gain,
as provided in section 1222(5), the amounts brought forward to the taxable year under section 1212 (other than section 1212(b)(1)(B)) are short-term capital losses for such taxable year.
(2) In the definition of
net long-term capital gain,
as provided in section 1222(7), the amounts brought forward to the taxable year under section 1212(b)(1)(B) are long-term capital losses for such taxable year.
(c) Gains and losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets held for not more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) (described as short-term capital gains and short-term capital losses) shall be segregated from gains and losses arising from the sale or exchange of such assets held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) (described as long-term capital gains and long-term capital losses).
(d)(1) The term capital gain net income (net capital gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) means the excess of the gains from sales or exchanges of capital assets over the losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets, which losses include any amounts carried to the taxable year pursuant to section 1212(a) or section 1212(b).
(2) Notwithstanding subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, in the case of a taxpayer other than a corporation for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, the term
net capital gain
means the excess of (i) the sum of the gains from sales or exchanges of capital assets, plus the taxable income (computed without regard to gains and losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets and without regard to the deductions provided by section 151, relating to personal exemptions, or any deductions in lieu thereof) of the taxpayer or $1,000, whichever is smaller, over (ii) the losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets, which losses include amounts carried to the taxable year by such taxpayer under paragraph (a)(1) of § 1.1212-1. Thus, in the case of estates and trusts for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, taxable income for the purposes of this paragraph shall be computed without regard to gains and losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets and without regard to the deductions allowed by section 642(b) to estates and trusts in lieu of personal exemptions. The term
net capital gain
is not applicable in the case of a taxpayer other than a corporation for taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963, and before January 1, 1970. In the case of a taxpayer whose tax liability is computed under section 3 for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, the term
taxable income,
for purposes of this paragraph, shall be read as
adjusted gross income.
(e) The term
net capital loss
means the excess of the losses from sales or exchanges of capital assets over the sum allowed under section 1211. However, in the case of a corporation, amounts which are short-term capital losses under § 1.1212-1(a) are excluded in determining such
net capital loss.
(f) See section 165(g) and section 166(e), under which losses from worthless stocks, bonds, and other securities (if they constitute capital assets) are required to be treated as losses under subchapter P (section 1201 and following), chapter 1 of the Code, from the sale or exchange of capital assets, even though such securities are not actually sold or exchanged. See also section 1231 and § 1.1231-1 for the determination of whether or not gains and losses from the involuntary conversion of capital assets and from the sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of certain property used in the trade or business shall be treated as gains and losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets. See also section 1236 and § 1.1236-1 for the determination of whether or not gains from the sale or exchange of securities by a dealer in securities shall be treated as capital gains, or whether losses from such sales or exchanges shall be treated as ordinary losses.
(g) In the case of nonresident alien individuals not engaged in trade or business within the United States, see section 871 and the regulations thereunder for the determination of the net amount of capital gains subject to tax.
(h) The term net capital gain (net section 1201 gain for taxable years beginning before January 1, 1977) means the excess of the net long-term capital gain for the taxable year over the net short-term capital loss for such year.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12004, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6828, 30 FR 7808, June 17, 1965; T.D. 6867, 30 FR 15096, Dec. 7, 1965; T.D. 7301, 39 FR 971, Jan. 4, 1974; T.D. 7337, 39 FR 44978, Dec. 30, 1974; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 1.1223-1
Determination of period for which capital assets are held.
(a) The holding period of property received in an exchange by a taxpayer includes the period for which the property which he exchanged was held by him, if the property received has the same basis in whole or in part for determining gain or loss in the hands of the taxpayer as the property exchanged. However, this rule shall apply, in the case of exchanges after March 1, 1954, only if the property exchanged was at the time of the exchange a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer or property used in his trade or business as defined in section 1231(b). For the purposes of this paragraph, the term
exchange
includes the following transactions:
(1) An involuntary conversion described in section 1033, and
(2) A distribution to which section 355 (or so much of section 356 as relates to section 355) applies.
Thus, if property acquired as the result of a compulsory or involuntary conversion of other property of the taxpayer has under section 1033(c) the same basis in whole or in part in the hands of the taxpayer as the property so converted, its acquisition is treated as an exchange and the holding period of the newly acquired property shall include the period during which the converted property was held by the taxpayer. Thus, also, where stock of a controlled corporation is received by a taxpayer pursuant to a distribution to which section 355 (or so much of section 356 as relates to section 355) applies, the distribution is treated as an exchange and the period for which the taxpayer has held the stock of the controlled corporation shall include the period for which he held the stock of the distributing corporation with respect to which such distribution was made.
(b) The holding period of property in the hands of a taxpayer shall include the period during which the property was held by any other person, if such property has the same basis in whole or in part in the hands of the taxpayer for determining gain or loss from a sale or exchange as it would have in the hands of such other person. For example, the period for which property acquired by gift after December 31, 1920, was held by the donor must be included in determining the period for which the property was held by the taxpayer if, under the provisions of section 1015, such property has, for the purpose of determining gain or loss from the sale or exchange, the same basis in the hands of the taxpayer as it would have in the hands of the donor. Similarly, the period for which property acquired from a decedent who died in 2010 was held by the decedent must be included in determining the period during which the property was held by the recipient, if
the recipient's basis in the property is determined under section 1022.
(c) In determining the period for which the taxpayer has held stock or securities received upon a distribution where no gain was recognized to the distributee under section 1081(c) (or under section 112(g) of the Revenue Act of 1928 (45 Stat. 818) or the Revenue Act of 1932 (47 Stat. 197)), there shall be included the period for which he held the stock or securities in the distributing corporation before the receipt of the stock or securities on such distribution.
(d) If the acquisition of stock or securities resulted in the nondeductibility (under section 1091, relating to wash sales) of the loss from the sale or other disposition of substantially identical stock or securities, the holding period of the newly acquired securities shall include the period for which the taxpayer held the securities with respect to which the loss was not allowable.
(e) The period for which the taxpayer has held stock, or stock subscription rights, received on a distribution shall be determined as though the stock dividend, or stock right, as the case may be, were the stock in respect of which the dividend was issued if the basis for determining gain or loss upon the sale or other disposition of such stock dividend or stock right is determined under section 307. If the basis of stock received by a taxpayer pursuant to a spin-off is determined under so much of section 1052(c) as refers to section 113(a)(23) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, and such stock is sold or otherwise disposed of in a taxable year which is subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, the period for which the taxpayer has held the stock received in such spin-off shall include the period for which he held the stock of the distributing corporation with respect to which such distribution was made.
(f) The period for which the taxpayer has held stock or securities issued to him by a corporation pursuant to the exercise by him of rights to acquire such stock or securities from the corporation will, in every case and whether or not the receipt of taxable gain was recognized in connection with the distribution of the rights, begin with and include the day upon which the rights to acquire such stock or securities were exercised. A taxpayer will be deemed to have exercised rights received from a corporation to acquire stock or securities therein where there is an expression of assent to the terms of such rights made by the taxpayer in the manner requested or authorized by the corporation.
(g) The period for which the taxpayer has held a residence, the acquisition of which resulted under the provisions of section 1034 in the nonrecognition of any part of the gain realized on the sale or exchange of another residence, shall include the period for which such other residence had been held as of the date of such sale or exchange. For purposes of this paragraph, the term
sale or exchange
includes an involuntary conversion occurring after December 31, 1950, and before January 1, 1954.
(h) If a taxpayer accepts delivery of a commodity in satisfaction of a commodity futures contract, the holding period of the commodity shall include the period for which the taxpayer held the commodity futures contract, if such futures contract was a capital asset in his hands.
(i) If shares of stock in a corporation are sold from lots purchased at different dates or at different prices and the identity of the lots cannot be determined, the rules prescribed by the regulations under section 1012 for determining the cost or other basis of such stocks so sold or transferred shall also apply for the purpose of determining the holding period of such stock.
(j) In the case of a person acquiring property, or to whom property passed, from a decedent (within the meaning of section 1014(b)) dying after December 31, 1970, such person shall be considered to have held the property for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) if the property:
(1) Has a basis in the hands of such person which is determined in whole or in part under section 1014, and
(2) Is sold or otherwise disposed of by such person within 6 months after the decedent's death.
The provisions of this paragraph apply to sales of such property included in the decedent's gross estate for the purposes of the estate tax by the executor or administrator of the estate and to sales of such property by other persons who have acquired property from the decedent. The provisions of this paragraph may also be applicable to cases involving joint tenancies, community property, and properties transferred in contemplation of death. Thus, if a surviving joint tenant, who acquired property by right of survivorship, sells or otherwise disposes of such property within 6 months after the date of the decedent's death, and the basis of the property in his hands is determined in whole or in part under section 1014, the property shall be considered to have been held by the surviving joint tenant for more than 6 months. Similarly, a surviving spouse's share of community property shall be considered to have been held by her for more than 6 months if it is sold or otherwise disposed of within 6 months after the date of the decedent's death, regardless of when the property was actually acquired by the marital community. For the purposes of this paragraph, it is immaterial that the sale or other disposition produces gain or loss. If property is considered to have been held for more than 6 months by reason of this paragraph, it also is considered to have been held for that period for purposes of section 1231 (if that section is otherwise applicable).
(k) Any reference in section 1223 or this section to another provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 is, where applicable, to be deemed a reference to the corresponding provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939, or prior internal revenue laws. The provisions of prior internal revenue laws here intended are the sections referred to in the sections of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 which correspond to the sections of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 referred to in section 1223. Thus, the sections corresponding to section 1081(c) are section 371(c) of the Revenue Act of 1938 (52 Stat. 553) and section 371(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. The sections corresponding to section 1091 are section 118 of each of the following: The Revenue Acts of 1928 (45 Stat. 826), 1932 (47 Stat. 208), 1934 (48 Stat. 715), 1936 (49 Stat. 1692), 1938 (52 Stat. 503), and the Internal Revenue Code of 1939.
(l)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies January 19, 2017. For rules before January 19, 2017, see § 1.1223-1 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12005, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7238, 37 FR 28717, Dec. 29, 1972; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980; T.D. 9811, 82 FR 6241, Jan. 19, 2017; T.D. 9849, 84 FR 9237, Mar. 14, 2019]
§ 1.1223-3
Rules relating to the holding periods of partnership interests.
(a)
In general.
A partner shall not have a divided holding period in an interest in a partnership unless—
(1) The partner acquired portions of an interest at different times; or
(2) The partner acquired portions of the partnership interest in exchange for property transferred at the same time but resulting in different holding periods (
e.g.,
section 1223).
(b)
Accounting for holding periods of an interest in a partnership
—(1)
General rule.
The portion of a partnership interest to which a holding period relates shall be determined by reference to a fraction, the numerator of which is the fair market value of the portion of the partnership interest received in the transaction to which the holding period relates, and the denominator of which is the fair market value of the entire partnership interest (determined immediately after the transaction).
(2)
Special rule.
For purposes of applying paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine the holding period of a partnership interest (or portion thereof) that is sold or exchanged (or with respect to which gain or loss is recognized upon a distribution under section 731), if a partner makes one or more contributions of cash to the partnership and receives one or more distributions of cash from the partnership during the one-year period ending on the date of the sale or exchange (or distribution with respect to which gain or loss is recognized under section 731), the partner may reduce the cash contributions made during the year by cash distributions received on a last-in-
first-out basis, treating all cash distributions as if they were received immediately before the sale or exchange (or at the time of the distribution with respect to which gain or loss is recognized under section 731).
(3)
Deemed contributions and distributions.
For purposes of paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, deemed contributions of cash under section 752(a) and deemed distributions of cash under section 752(b) shall be disregarded to the same extent that such amounts are disregarded under § 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(c).
(4)
Adjustment with respect to contributed section 751 assets.
For purposes of applying paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine the holding period of a partnership interest (or portion thereof) that is sold or exchanged, if a partner receives a portion of the partnership interest in exchange for property described in section 751(c) or (d) (section 751 assets) within the one-year period ending on the date of the sale or exchange of all or a portion of the partner's interest in the partnership, and the partner recognizes ordinary income or loss on account of such a section 751 asset in a fully taxable transaction (either as a result of the sale of all or part of the partner's interest in the partnership or the sale by the partnership of the section 751 asset), the contribution of the section 751 asset during the one-year period shall be disregarded. However, if, in the absence of this paragraph, a partner would not be treated as having held any portion of the interest for more than one year (
e.g.,
because the partner's only contributions to the partnership are contributions of section 751 assets or section 751 assets and cash within the prior one-year period), this adjustment is not available.
(5)
Divided holding period if partnership interest comprises in whole or in part one or more profits interests
—(i)
In general.
If a partnership interest is comprised in whole or in part of one or more profits interests (as defined in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section), then, for purposes of applying paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the portion of the holding period to which a profits interest relates is determined based on the fair market value of the profits interest upon the disposition of all, or part, of the interest (and not at the time that the profits interest is acquired). Paragraph (b)(1) of this section continues to apply to the extent that a partner acquires portions of a partnership interest that are not comprised of a profits interest and the value of the profits interest is not included for purposes of determining the value of the entire partnership interest under paragraph (b)(1).
(ii)
Definition of capital interest and profits interest.
For purposes of this paragraph (b)(5), a profits interest is a partnership interest other than a capital interest. A capital interest is an interest that would give the holder a share of the proceeds if the partnership's assets were sold at fair market value at the time the interest was received and then the proceeds were distributed in a complete liquidation of the partnership. A profits interest, for purposes of this paragraph (b)(5), is received in connection with the performance of services to or for the benefit of a partnership in a partner capacity or in anticipation of being a partner, and the receipt of the interest is not treated as a taxable event for the partner or the partnership under applicable Federal income tax guidance.
(6)
Exception.
The Commissioner may prescribe by guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see § 601.601(d)(2) of this chapter) a rule disregarding certain cash contributions (including contributions of a de minimis amount of cash) in applying paragraph (b)(1) of this section to determine the holding period of a partnership interest (or portion thereof) that is sold or exchanged.
(c)
Sale or exchange of all or a portion of an interest in a partnership
—(1)
Sale or exchange of entire interest in a partnership.
If a partner sells or exchanges the partner's entire interest in a partnership, any capital gain or loss recognized shall be divided between long-term and short-term capital gain or loss in the same proportions as the holding period of the interest in the partnership is divided between the portion of the interest held for more than one year and the portion of the interest held for one year or less.
(2)
Sale or exchange of a portion of an interest in a partnership
—(i)
Certain publicly traded partnerships.
A selling partner in a publicly traded partnership (as defined under section 7704(b)) may use the actual holding period of the portion of a partnership interest transferred if—
(A) The ownership interest is divided into identifiable units with ascertainable holding periods;
(B) The selling partner can identify the portion of the partnership interest transferred; and
(C) The selling partner elects to use the identification method for all sales or exchanges of interests in the partnership after September 21, 2000. The selling partner makes the election referred to in this paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) by using the actual holding period of the portion of the partner's interest in the partnership first transferred after September 21, 2000 in reporting the transaction for Federal income tax purposes.
(ii)
Other partnerships.
If a partner has a divided holding period in a partnership interest, and paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section does not apply, then the holding period of the transferred interest shall be divided between long-term and short-term capital gain or loss in the same proportions as the long-term and short-term capital gain or loss that the transferor partner would realize if the entire interest in the partnership were transferred in a fully taxable transaction immediately before the actual transfer.
(d)
Distributions
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a partner's holding period in a partnership interest is not affected by distributions from the partnership.
(2)
Character of capital gain or loss recognized as a result of a distribution from a partnership.
If a partner is required to recognize capital gain or loss as a result of a distribution from a partnership, then the capital gain or loss recognized shall be divided between long-term and short-term capital gain or loss in the same proportions as the long-term and short-term capital gain or loss that the distributee partner would realize if such partner's entire interest in the partnership were transferred in a fully taxable transaction immediately before the distribution.
(e)
Section 751(c) assets.
For purposes of this section, properties and potential gain treated as unrealized receivables under section 751(c) shall be treated as separate assets that are not capital assets as defined in section 1221 or property described in section 1231.
(f)
Examples.
The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples:
(1)
Example 1.
Division of holding period—contribution of money and a capital asset.
(i)
A
contributes $5,000 of cash and a nondepreciable capital asset
A
has held for two years to a partnership (
PRS
) for a 50 percent interest in
PRS. A'
s basis in the capital asset is $5,000, and the fair market value of the asset is $10,000. After the exchange,
A
's basis in
A
's interest in
PRS
is $10,000, and the fair market value of the interest is $15,000.
A
received one-third of the interest in
PRS
for a cash payment of $5,000 ($5,000/$15,000). Therefore,
A'
s holding period in one-third of the interest received (attributable to the contribution of money to the partnership) begins on the day after the contribution.
A
received two-thirds of the interest in
PRS
in exchange for the capital asset ($10,000/$15,000). Accordingly, pursuant to section 1223(1),
A
has a two-year holding period in two-thirds of the interest received in
PRS.
(ii) Six months later, when
A
's basis in
PRS
is $12,000 (due to a $2,000 allocation of partnership income to
A
),
A
sells the interest in
PRS
for $17,000. Assuming
PRS
holds no inventory or unrealized receivables (as defined under section 751(c)) and no collectibles or section 1250 property,
A
will realize $5,000 of capital gain. As determined above, one-third of
A
's interest in
PRS
has a holding period of one year or less, and two-thirds of
A
's interest in
PRS
has a holding period equal to two years and six months. Therefore, one-third of the capital gain will be short-term capital gain, and two-thirds of the capital gain will be long-term capital gain.
(2)
Example 2.
Division of holding period—contribution of section 751 asset and a capital asset.
A
contributes inventory with a basis of $2,000 and a fair market value of
$6,000 and a capital asset which
A
has held for more than one year with a basis of $4,000 and a fair market value of $6,000, and
B
contributes cash of $12,000 to form a partnership (
AB
). As a result of the contribution, one-half of
A
's interest in
AB
is treated as having been held for more than one year under section 1223(1). Six months later,
A
transfers one-half of
A
's interest in
AB
to
C
for $6,000, realizing a gain of $3,000. If
AB
were to sell all of its section 751 property in a fully taxable transaction immediately before
A
's transfer of the partnership interest,
A
would be allocated $4,000 of ordinary income on account of the inventory. Accordingly,
A
will recognize $2,000 of ordinary income and $1,000 of capital gain ($3,000-$2,000) on account of the transfer to
C.
Because
A
recognizes ordinary income on account of the inventory that was contributed to
AB
within the one year period ending on the date of the sale, the inventory will be disregarded in determining the holding period of
A
's interest in
AB.
All of the capital gain will be long-term.
(3)
Example 3.
Netting of cash contributions and distributions.
(i) On January 1, 2000,
A
holds a 50 percent interest in the capital and profits of a partnership (
PS
). The value of
A
's
PS
interest is $900, and
A
's holding period in the entire interest is long-term. On January 2, 2000, when the value of
A
's
PS
interest is still $900,
A
contributes $100 to
PS.
On June 1, 2000,
A
receives a distribution of $40 cash from the partnership. On September 1, 2000, when the value of
A
's interest in
PS
is $1,350,
A
contributes an additional $230 cash to
PS,
and on October 1, 2000,
A
receives another $40 cash distribution from
PS. A
sells
A
's entire partnership interest on November 1, 2000, for $1,600.
A
's adjusted basis in the
PS
interest at the time of the sale is $1,000.
(ii) For purposes of netting cash contributions and distributions in determining the holding period of
A
's interest in
PS, A
is treated as having received a distribution of $80 on November 1, 2000. Applying that distribution on a last-in-first-out basis to reduce prior contributions during the year, the contribution made on September 1, 2000, is reduced to $150 ($230-$80). The holding period then is determined as follows: Immediately after the contribution of $100 on January 2, 2000,
A
's holding period in
A
's
PS
interest is 90 percent long-term ($900/($900 + $100)) and 10 percent short-term ($100/($900 + $100)). The contribution of $150 on September 1, 2000, causes 10 percent of
A
's partnership interest ($150/($1,350 + $150)) to have a short-term holding period. Accordingly, immediately after the contribution on September 1, 2000,
A
's holding period in
A
's
PS
interest is 81 percent long-term (.90 × .90) and 19 percent short-term ((.10 × .90) + .10). Accordingly, $486 ($600 × .81) of the gain from
A
's sale of the
PS
interest is long-term capital gain, and $114 ($600 × .19) is short-term capital gain.
(4)
Example 4.
Division of holding period when capital account is increased by contribution.
A, B, C,
and
D
are equal partners in a partnership (
PRS
), and the fair market value of a 25 percent interest in
PRS
is $100.
A, B, C,
and
D
each contribute an additional $100 to partnership capital, thereby increasing the fair market value of each partner's interest to $200. As a result of the contribution, each partner has a new holding period in the portion of the partner's interest in
PRS
that is attributable to the contribution. That portion equals 50 percent ($100/$200) of each partner's interest in
PRS.
(5)
Example 5.
Sale or exchange of a portion of an interest in a partnership.
(i)
A, B,
and
C
form an equal partnership (
PRS
). In connection with the formation,
A
contributes $5,000 in cash and a capital asset (capital asset 1) with a fair market value of $5,000 and a basis of $2,000;
B
contributes $7,000 in cash and a capital asset (capital asset 2) with a fair market value of $3,000 and a basis of $3,000; and
C
contributes $10,000 in cash. At the time of the contribution,
A
had held the contributed property for two years. Six months later, when
A
's basis in
PRS
is $7,000, A transfers one-half of
A
's interest in
PRS
to
T
for $7,000 at a time when
PRS
's balance sheet (reflecting a cash receipts and disbursements method of accounting) is as follows:
ASSETS
Adjusted basis
Market value
Cash
$22,000
$22,000
Unrealized Receivables
0
6,000
Capital Asset 1
2,000
5,000
Capital Asset 2
3,000
9,000
Capital Assets
5,000
14,000
Total
27,000
42,000
(ii) Although at the time of the transfer
A
has not held
A
's interest in
PRS
for more than one year, 50 percent of the fair market value of
A
's interest in
PRS
was received in exchange for a capital asset with a long-term holding period. Therefore, 50 percent of
A
's interest in
PRS
has a long-term holding period.
(iii) If
PRS
were to sell all of its section 751 property in a fully taxable transaction immediately before
A
's transfer of the partnership interest,
A
would be allocated $2,000 of ordinary income. One-half of that amount ($1,000) is attributable to the portion of
A
's interest in
PRS
transferred to
T.
Accordingly,
A
will recognize $1,000 oridnary income and $2,500 ($3,500-$1,000) of capital gain on account of the transfer to
T
of one-half of
A
's interest in
PRS.
Fifty percent ($1,250) of that gain is long-term capital gain and 50 percent ($1,250) is short-term capital gain.
(6)
Example 6.
Sale of units of interests in a partnership.
A publicly traded partnership (
PRS
) has ownership interests that are segregated into identifiable units of interest.
A
owns 10 limited partnership units in
PRS
for which
A
paid $10,000 on January 1, 1999. On August 1, 2000,
A
purchases five additional units for $10,000. At the time of purchase, the fair market value of each unit has increased to $2,000.
A
's holding period for one-third ($10,000/$30,000) of the interest in
PRS
begins on the day after the purchase of the five additional units. Less than one year later,
A
sells five units of ownership in
PRS
for $11,000. At the time,
A
's basis in the 15 units of
PRS
is $20,000, and
A
's capital gain on the sale of 5 units is $4,333 (amount realized of $11,000−one-third of the adjusted basis or $6,667). For purposes of determining the holding period,
A
can designate the specific units of
PRS
sold. If
A
properly identifies the five units sold as five of the ten units for which
A
has a long-term holding period and elects to use the identification method for all subsequent sales or exchanges of interests in the partnership by using the actual holding period in reporting the transaction on
A
's Federal income tax return, the capital gain realized will be long-term capital gain.
(7)
Example 7.
Disproportionate distribution.
In 1997,
A
and
B
each contribute cash of $50,000 to form and become equal partners in a partnership (
PRS
). More than one year later,
A
receives a distribution worth $22,000 from
PRS,
which reduces
A
's interest in
PRS
to 36 percent. After the distribution,
B
owns 64 percent of
PRS.
The holding periods of
A
and
B
in their interests in
PRS
are not affected by the distribution.
(8)
Example 8.
Gain or loss as a result of a distribution.
(i) On January 1, 1996,
A
contributes property with a basis of $10 and a fair market value of $10,000 in exchange for an interest in a partnership (
ABC
). On September 30, 2000, when
A
's interest in
ABC
is worth $12,000 (and the basis of
A
's partnership interest is still $10),
A
contributes $12,000 cash in exchange for an additional interest in
ABC. A
is allocated a loss equal to $10,000 by
ABC
for the taxable year ending December 31, 2000, thereby reducing the basis of
A
's partnership interest to $2,010. On February 1, 2001,
ABC
makes a cash distribution to
A
of $10,000.
ABC
holds no inventory or unrealized receivables. (assume that
A
is allocated no gain or loss for the taxable year ending December 31, 2001, so that the basis of
A
's partnership interest does not increase or decrease as a result of such allocations.)
(ii) The netting rule contained in paragraph (b)(2) of this section provides that, in determining the holding period of
A
's interest in
ABC,
the cash contribution made on September 30, 2000, must be reduced by the distribution made on February 1, 2001. Accordingly, for purposes of determining the holding period of
A
's interest in
ABC, A
is treated as having made a cash contribution of $2,000 ($12,000-$10,000) to
ABC
on September 30, 2000.
A
's holding period in one-seventh of
A
's interest in
ABC
($2,000 cash contributed over the $14,000 value of the entire interest (determined as if only $2,000 were contributed rather than $12,000)) begins on the day after the cash contribution.
A
recognizes $7,990 of capital gain as a result of the distribution. See section 731(a)(1). One-seventh of the capital gain recognized as a result of the distribution is short-term capital gain, and six-sevenths of the capital gain is long-term capital gain. After the distribution,
A
's basis in the interest in
PRS
is $0, and the holding period for the interest in
PRS
continues to be divided in the same proportions as before the distribution.
(9)
Example 9.
On June 1, 2020, GP contributes $10,000 to PRS for a partnership interest in PRS. On June 30, 2023, GP receives a 20% interest in the profits of PRS that is an Applicable Partnership Interest (API) as defined in § 1.1061-1(a). On June 30, 2025, GP sells its interest in PRS for $30,000. At the time of GP's sale of its interest, the API has a fair market value of $15,000. GP has a divided holding period in its interest in PRS; 50% of the partnership interest has a holding period beginning on June 1, 2020, and 50% has a holding period that begins on June 30, 2023.
(10)
Example 10.
Assume the same facts as in paragraph (f)(9) of this section (
Example 9
), except that on June 30, 2024, GP contributes an additional $5,000 cash to GP prior to GP's sale of its interest in 2025. Immediately after the contribution of the $5,000 on June 30, 2024, GP's interest in PRS has a value of $15,000, not taking into account the value of GP's profits interest in PRS. GP calculates its holding period in the portions not comprised by the profits interest and two-thirds of its holding period runs from June 1, 2020, and one-third runs from June 30, 2024. On June 30, 2025, GP sells its interest for $30,000 and the API has a fair market value of $15,000. Accordingly, on the date of disposition, one-third of GP's interest has a five year holding period from its interest received in 2020 for its $10,000 contribution, one-half of GP's interest has a two year holding period from the profits interest issued on June 30, 2023, and one-sixth of GP's interest has a one year holding period from the contribution of the $5,000.
(g)
Applicability dates.
This section applies to transfers of partnership interests and distributions of property from a partnership that occur on or after September 21, 2000. Paragraphs (b)(5) and (f)(9) and (10) of this section apply to taxable years beginning on or after January 19, 2021.
[T.D. 8902, 65 FR 57099, Sept. 21, 2000, as amended by T.D. 9945, 86 FR 5494, Jan. 19, 2021; T.D. 9945, 89 FR 50526, June 14, 2024]

# Special Rules for Determining Capital Gains and Losses
§ 1.1231-1
Gains and losses from the sale or exchange of certain property used in the trade or business.
(a)
In general.
Section 1231 provides that, subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section, a taxpayer's gains and losses from the disposition (including involuntary conversion) of assets described in that section as
property used in the trade or business
and from the involuntary conversion of capital assets held for more than 6 months shall be treated as long-term capital gains and losses if the total gains exceed the total losses. If the total gains do not exceed the total losses, all such gains and losses are treated as ordinary gains and losses. Therefore, if the taxpayer has no gains subject to section 1231, a recognized loss from the condemnation (or from a sale or exchange under threat of condemnation) of even a capital asset held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) is an ordinary loss. Capital assets subject to section 1231 treatment include only capital assets involuntarily converted. The noncapital assets subject to section 1231 treatment are (1) depreciable business property and business real property held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) other than stock in trade and certain copyrights and artistic property and, in the case of sales and other dispositions occurring after July 25, 1969, other than a letter, memorandum, or property similar to a letter or memorandum; (2) timber, coal, and iron ore which do not otherwise meet the requirements of
section 1231 but with respect to which section 631 applies; and (3) certain livestock and unharvested crops. See paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Treatment of gains and losses.
For the purpose of applying section 1231, a taxpayer must aggregate his recognized gains and losses from:
(1) The sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of property used in the trade or business (as defined in section 1231(b)), and
(2) The involuntary conversion (but not sale or exchange) of capital assets held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977).
If the gains to which section 1231 applies exceed the losses to which the section applies, the gains and losses are treated as long-term capital gains and losses and are subject to the provisions of parts I and II (section 1201 and following), subchapter P, chapter 1 of the Code, relating to capital gains and losses. If the gains to which section 1231 applies do not exceed the losses to which the section applies, the gains and losses are treated as ordinary gains and losses. Therefore, in the latter case, a loss from the involuntary conversion of a capital asset held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) is treated as an ordinary loss and is not subject to the limitation on capital losses in section 1211. The phrase
involuntary conversion
is defined in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Transactions to which section applies.
Section 1231 applies to recognized gains and losses from the following:
(1) The sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of property held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) and used in the taxpayer's trade or business, which is either real property or is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation under section 167 (even though fully depreciated), and which is not:
(i) Property of a kind which would properly be includible in the inventory of the taxpayer if on hand at the close of the taxable year, or property held by the taxpayer primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business;
(ii) A copyright, a literary, musical, or artistic composition, or similar property, or (in the case of sales and other dispositions occurring after July 25, 1969) a letter, memorandum, or property similar to a letter or memorandum, held by a taxpayer described in section 1221(3); or
(iii) Livestock held for draft, breeding, dairy, or sporting purposes, except to the extent included under paragraph (4) of this paragraph, or poultry.
(2) The involuntary conversion of capital assets held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977).
(3) The cutting or disposal of timber, or the disposal of coal or iron ore, to the extent considered arising from a sale or exchange by reason of the provisions of section 631 and the regulations thereunder.
(4) The sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of livestock if the requirements of § 1.1231-2 are met.
(5) The sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of unharvested crops on land which is (i) used in the taxpayer's trade or business and held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), and (ii) sold or exchanged at the same time and to the same person. See paragraph (f) of this section.
For purposes of section 1231, the phrase
property used in the trade or business
means property described in this paragraph (other than property described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph). Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this paragraph, section 1231(a) does not apply to gains and losses under the circumstances described in paragraph (e) (2) or (3) of this section.
(d)
Extent to which gains and losses are taken into account.
All gains and losses to which section 1231 applies must be taken into account in determining whether and to what extent the gains exceed the losses. For the purpose of this computation, the provisions of section 1211 limiting the deduction of capital losses do not apply, and no losses are excluded by that section. With that
exception, gains are included in the computations under section 1231 only to the extent that they are taken into account in computing gross income, and losses are included only to the extent that they are taken into account in computing taxable income. The following are examples of gains and losses not included in the computations under section 1231:
(1) Losses of a personal nature which are not deductible by reason of section 165 (c) or (d), such as losses from the sale of property held for personal use;
(2) Losses which are not deductible under section 267 (relating to losses with respect to transactions between related taxpayers) or section 1091 (relating to losses from wash sales);
(3) Gain on the sale of property (to which section 1231 applies) reported for any taxable year on the installment method under section 453, except to the extent the gain is to be reported under section 453 for the taxable year; and
(4) Gains and losses which are not recognized under section 1002, such as those to which sections 1031 through 1036, relating to common nontaxable exchanges, apply.
(e)
Involuntary conversion
—(1)
General rule.
For purposes of section 1231, the terms
compulsory or involuntary conversion
and
involuntary conversion
of property mean the conversion of proeprty into money or other property as a result of complete or partial destruction, theft or seizure, or an exercise of the power of requisition or condemnation, or the threat or imminence thereof. Losses upon the complete or partial destruction, theft, seizure, requisition, or condemnation of property are treated as losses upon an involuntary conversion whether or not there is a conversion of the property into other property or money and whether or not the property is uninsured, partially insured, or totally insured. For example, if a capital asset held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), with an adjusted basis of $400, but not held for the production of income, is stolen, and the loss which is sustained in the taxable year 1956 is not compensated for by insurance or otherwise, section 1231 applies to the $400 loss. For certain exceptions to this subparagraph, see subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph.
(2)
Certain uninsured losses.
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, losses sustained during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1957, and before January 1, 1970, with respect to both property used in the trade or business and any capital asset held for more than 6 months and held for the production of income, which losses arise from fire, storm, shipwreck, or other casualty, or from theft, and which are not compensated for by insurance in any amount, are not losses to which section 1231(a) applies. Such losses shall not be taken into account in applying the provisions of this section.
(3)
Exclusion of gains and losses from certain involuntary conversions.
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, if for any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1969, the recognized losses from the involuntary conversion as a result of fire, storm, shipwreck, or other casualty, or from theft, of any property used in the trade or business or of any capital asset held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) exceed the recognized gains from the involuntary conversion of any such property as a result of fire, storm, shipwreck, or other casualty, or from theft, such gains and losses are not gains and losses to which section 1231 applies and shall not be taken into account in applying the provisions of this section. The net loss, in effect, will be treated as an ordinary loss. This subparagraph shall apply whether such property is uninsured, partially insured, or totally insured and, in the case of a capital asset held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), whether the property is property used in the trade or business, property held for the production of income, or a personal asset.
(f)
Unharvested crops.
Section 1231 does not apply to a sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of an unharvested crop if the taxpayer retains any right or option to reacquire
the land the crop is on, directly or indirectly (other than a right customarily incident to a mortgage or other security transaction). The length of time for which the crop, as distinguished from the land, is held is immaterial. A leasehold or estate for years is not
land
for the purpose of section 1231.
(g)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A, an individual, makes his income tax return on the calendar year basis. A's recognized gains and losses for 1957 of the kind described in section 1231 are as follows:
Gains
Losses
1. Gain on sale of machinery, used in the business and subject to an allowance for depreciation, held for more than 6 months
$4,000
2. Gain reported in 1957 (under section 453) on installment sale in 1956 of factory premises used in the business (including building and land, each held for more than 6 months)
6,000
3. Gain reported in 1957 (under section 453) on installment sale in 1957 of land held for more than 6 months, used in the business as a storage lot for trucks
2,000
4. Gain on proceeds from requisition by Government of boat, held for more than 6 months, used in the business and subject to an allowance for depreciation
500
5. Loss upon the destruction by fire of warehouse, held for more than 6 months and used in the business (excess of adjusted basis of warehouse over compensation by insurance, etc.)
$3,000
6. Loss upon theft of unregistered bearer bonds, held for more than 6 months
5,000
7. Loss in storm of pleasure yacht, purchased in 1950 for $1,800 and having a fair market value of $1,000 at the time of the storm
1,000
8. Total gains
12,500
___
9. Total losses
9,000
10. Excess of gains over losses
3,500
Since the aggregate of the recognized gains ($12,500) exceeds the aggregate of the recognized losses ($9,000), such gains and losses are treated under section 1231 as gains and losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets held for more than 6 months. For any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1957, and before January 1, 1970, the $5,000 loss upon theft of bonds (item 6) would not be taken into account under section 1231. See paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

# Example 2.
If in example (1), A also had a loss of $4,000 from the sale under threat of condemnation of a capital asset acquired for profit and held for more than six months, then the gains ($12,500) would not exceed the losses ($9,000 plus $4,000, or $13,000). Neither the loss on that sale nor any of the other items set forth in example (1) would then be treated as gains and losses from the sale or exchanges of capital assets, but all of such items would be treated as ordinary gains and losses. Likewise, if A had no other gain or loss, the $4,000 loss would be treated as an ordinary loss.

# Example 3.
A's yacht, used for pleasure and acquired for that use in 1945 at a cost of $25,000, was requisitioned by the Government in 1957 for $15,000. A sustained no loss deductible under section 165(c) and since no loss with respect to the requisition is recognizable, the loss will not be included in the computations under section 1231.

# Example 4.
A, an individual, makes his income tax return on a calendar year basis. During 1970 trees on A's residential property which were planted in 1950 after the purchase of such property were destroyed by fire. The loss, which was in the amount of $2,000 after applying section 165(c)(3), was not compensated for by insurance or otherwise. During the same year A also recognized a $1,500 gain from insurance proceeds compensating him for the theft sustained in 1970 of a diamond brooch purchased in 1960 for personal use. A has no other gains or losses for 1970 from the involuntary conversion of property. Since the recognized losses exceed the recognized gains from the involuntary conversion for 1970 as a result of fire, storm, shipwreck, or other casualty, or from theft, of any property used in the trade or business or of any capital asset held for more than 6 months, neither the gain nor the loss is included in making the computations under section 1231.

# Example 5.
The facts are the same as in example (4), except that A also recognized a gain of $1,000 from insurance proceeds compensating him for the total destruction by fire of a truck, held for more than 6 months, used in A's business and subject to an allowance for depreciation. A has no other gains or losses for 1970 from the involuntary conversion of property. Since the recognized losses ($2,000) do not exceed the recognized gains ($2,500) from the involuntary conversion for 1970 as a result of fire, storm, shipwreck, or other casualty, or from theft, of any property used in the trade or business or of any capital asset held for more than 6 months, such gains and losses are included in making the computations under section 1231. Thus, if A has no other gains or losses for 1970 to which section 1231 applies, the gains and losses from these involuntary conversions are treated under section 1231 as gains and losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets held for more than 6 months.

# Example 6.
The facts are the same as in example (5) except that A also has the following recognized gains and losses for 1970 to which section 1231 applies:
Gains
Losses
Gain on sale of machinery, used in the business and subject to an allowance for depreciation, held for more than 6 months
$4,000
Gain reported in 1970 (under section 453) on installment sale in 1969 of factory premises used in the business (including building and land, each held for more than 6 months)
6,000
Gain reported in 1970 (under section 453) on installment sale in 1970 of land held for more than 6 months, used in the business as a storage lot for trucks
$2,000
Loss upon the sale in 1970 of warehouse, used in the business and subject to an allowance for depreciation, held for more than 6 months
$5,000
Total gains
12,000
_____
Total losses
5,000
Since the aggregate of the recognized gains ($14,500) exceeds the aggregate of the recognized losses ($7,000), such gains and losses are treated under section 1231 as gains and losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets held for more than 6 months.

# Example 7.
B, an individual, makes his income tax return on the calendar year basis. During 1970 furniture used in his business and held for more than 6 months was destroyed by fire. The recognized loss, after compensation by insurance, was $2,000. During the same year B recognized a $1,000 gain upon the sale of a parcel of real estate used in his business and held for more than 6 months, and a $6,000 loss upon the sale of stock held for more than 6 months. B has no other gains or losses for 1970 from the involuntary conversion, or the sale or exchange of, property. The $6,000 loss upon the sale of stock is not a loss to which section 1231 applies since the stock is not property used in the trade or business, as defined in section 1231(b). The $2,000 loss upon the destruction of the furniture is not a loss to which section 1231 applies since the recognized losses ($2,000) exceed the recognized gains ($0) from the involuntary conversion for 1970 as a result of fire, storm, shipwreck, or other casualty, or from theft, of any property used in the trade or business or of any capital asset held for more than 6 months. Accordingly, the $1,000 gain upon the sale of real estate is considered to be gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than 6 months since the gains ($1,000) to which section 1231 applies exceed the losses ($0) to which such section applies.

# Example 8.
The facts are the same as in example (7) except that B also recognized a gain of $4,000 from insurance proceeds compensating him for the total destruction by fire of a freighter, held for more than 6 months, used in B's business and subject to an allowance for depreciation. Since the recognized losses ($2,000) do not exceed the recognized gains ($4,000) from the involuntary conversion for 1970 as a result of fire, storm, shipwreck, or other casualty, or from theft, of any property used in the trade or business or of any capital asset held for more than 6 months, such gains and losses are included in making the computations under section 1231. Since the aggregate of the recognized gains to which section 1231 applies ($5,000) exceeds the aggregate of the recognized losses to which such section applies ($2,000), such gains and losses are treated under section 1231 as gains and losses from the sale or exchange of capital assets held for more than 6 months. The $6,000 loss upon the sale of stock is not taken into account in making such computation since it is not a loss to which section 1231 applies.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12006, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6841, 30 FR 9309, July 27, 1965; T.D. 7369, 40 FR 29841, July 16, 1975; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980; T.D. 7829, 47 FR 38515, Sept. 1, 1982]
§ 1.1231-2
Livestock held for draft, breeding, dairy, or sporting purposes.
(a)(1) In the case of cattle, horses, or other livestock acquired by the taxpayer after December 31, 1969, section 1231 applies to the sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of such cattle, horses, or other livestock, regardless of age, held by the taxpayer for draft, breeding, dairy, or sporting purposes, and held by him:
(i) For 24 months or more from the date of acquisition in the case of cattle or horses, or
(ii) For 12 months or more from the date of acquisition in the case of such other livestock.
(2) In the case of livestock (including cattle or horses) acquired by the taxpayer on or before December 31, 1969, section 1231 applies to the sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of such livestock, regardless of age, held by the taxpayer for draft, breeding, or dairy purposes, and held by him for 12 months or more from the date of acquisition.
(3) For the purposes of section 1231, the term
livestock
is given a broad, rather than a narrow, interpretation and includes cattle, hogs, horses,
mules, donkeys, sheep, goats, fur-bearing animals, and other mammals. However, it does not include poultry, chickens, turkeys, pigeons, geese, other birds, fish, frogs, reptiles, etc.
(b)(1) Whether or not livestock is held by the taxpayer for draft, breeding, dairy, or sporting purposes depends upon all of the facts and circumstances in each case. The purpose for which the animal is held is ordinarily shown by the taxpayer's actual use of the animal. However, a draft, breeding, dairy, or sporting purpose may be present if an animal is disposed of within a reasonable time after its intended use for such purpose is prevented or made undesirable by reason of accident, disease, drought, unfitness of the animal for such purpose, or a similar factual circumstance. Under certain circumstances, an animal held for ultimate sale to customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business may be considered as held for draft, breeding, dairy, or sporting purposes. However, an animal is not held by the taxpayer for draft, breeding, dairy, or sporting purposes merely because it is suitable for such purposes or merely because it is held by the taxpayer for sale to other persons for use by them for such purposes. Furthermore, an animal held by the taxpayer for other purposes is not considered as held for draft, breeding, dairy, or sporting purposes merely because of a negligible use of the animal for such purposes or merely because of the use of the animal for such purposes as an ordinary or necessary incident to the other purposes for which the animal is held. See paragraph (c) of this section for the rules to be used in determining when horses are held for racing purposes and, therefore, are considered as held for sporting purposes.
(2) The application of this paragraph is illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
An animal intended by the taxpayer for use by him for breeding purposes is discovered to be sterile or unfit for the breeding purposes for which it was held, and is disposed of within a reasonable time thereafter. This animal is considered as held for breeding purposes.

# Example 2.
The taxpayer retires from the breeding or dairy business and sells his entire herd, including young animals which would have been used by him for breeding or dairy purposes if he had remained in business. These young animals are considered as held for breeding or dairy purposes. The same would be true with respect to young animals which would have been used by the taxpayer for breeding or dairy purposes but which are sold by him in reduction of his breeding or dairy herd, because of, for example, drought.

# Example 3.
A taxpayer in the business of raising hogs for slaughter customarily breeds sows to obtain a single litter to be raised by him for sale, and sells these brood sows after obtaining the litter. Even though these brood sows are held for ultimate sale to customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business, they are considered as held for breeding purposes.

# Example 4.
A taxpayer in the business of raising horses for sale to others for use by them as draft horses uses them for draft purposes on his own farm in order to train them. This use is an ordinary or necessary incident to the purpose of selling the animals, and, accordingly, these horses are not considered as held for draft purposes.

# Example 5.
The taxpayer is in the business of raising registered cattle for sale to others for use by them as breeding cattle. It is the business practice of this particular taxpayer to breed the offspring of his herd which he is holding for sale to others prior to sale in order to establish their fitness for sale as registered breeding cattle. In such case, the taxpayer's breeding of such offspring is an ordinary and necessary incident to his holding them for the purpose of selling them as bred heifers or proven bulls and does not demonstrate that the taxpayer is holding them for breeding purposes. However, those cattle held by the taxpayer as additions or replacements to his own breeding herd to produce calves are considered to be held for breeding purposes, even though they may not actually have produced calves.

# Example 6.
A taxpayer, engaged in the business of buying cattle and fattening them for slaughter, purchased cows with calf. The calves were born while the cows were held by the taxpayer. These cows are not considered as held for breeding purposes.
(c)(1) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, a horse held for racing purposes shall be considered as held for sporting purposes. Whether a horse is held for racing purposes shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:
(i) A horse which has actually been raced at a public race track shall, except in rare and unusual circumstances, be considered as held for racing purposes.
(ii) A horse which has not been raced at a public track shall be considered as held for racing purposes if it has been trained to race and other facts and circumstances in the particular case also indicate that the horse was held for this purpose. For example, assume that the taxpayer maintains a written training record on all horses he keeps in training status, which shows that a particular horse does not meet objective standards (including, but not limited to, such considerations as failure to achieve predetermined standards of performance during training, or the existence of a physical or other defect) established by the taxpayer for determining the fitness and quality of horses to be retained in his racing stable. Under such circumstances, if the taxpayer disposes of the horse within a reasonable time after he determined that it did not meet his objective standards for retention, the horse shall be considered as held for racing purposes.
(iii) A horse which has neither been raced at a public track nor trained for racing shall not, except in rare and unusual circumstances, be considered as held for racing purposes.
(2) This paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
The taxpayer breeds, raises, and trains horses for the purpose of racing. Every year he culls some horses from his racing stable. In 1971, the taxpayer decided that in order to prevent his racing stable from getting too large to be effectively operated he must cull six horses from it. All six of the horses culled by the taxpayer had been raced at public tracks in 1970. Under subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph, all these horses are considered as held for racing purposes.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1). Assume further that the taxpayer decided to cull four more horses from his racing stable in 1971. All these horses had been trained to race but had not been raced at public tracks. The taxpayer culled these four horses because the training log which the taxpayer maintains on all the horses he trains showed these horses to be unfit to remain in his racing stable. Horse A was culled because it developed shin splints during training. Horses B and C were culled because of poor temperament. B bolted every time a rider tried to mount it, and C became extremely nervous when it was placed in the starting gate. Horse D was culled because it did not qualify for retention under one of the objective standards the taxpayer had established for determining which horses to retain since it was unable to run a specified distance in a minimum time. These four horses were disposed of within a reasonable time after the taxpayer determined that they were unfit to remain in his stable. Under subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, all these horses are considered as held for racing purposes.
[T.D. 7141, 36 FR 18792, Sept. 22, 1971]
§ 1.1232-1
Bonds and other evidences of indebtedness; scope of section.
(a)
In general.
Section 1232 applies to any bond, debenture, note, or certificate or other evidence of indebtedness (referred to in this section and §§ 1.1232-3 and 1.1232-3A as an obligation) which is a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer, and which is issued by any corporation, or by any government or political subdivision thereof. In general, section 1232(a)(1) provides that the retirement of an obligation, other than certain obligations issued before January 1, 1955, is considered to be an exchange and, therefore, is usually subject to capital gain or loss treatment. In general, section 1232(a)(2)(B) provides that in the case of a gain realized on the sale or exchange of certain obligations issued at a discount after December 31, 1954, which are either corporate bonds issued on or before May 27, 1969, or government bonds, the amount of gain equal to such discount or, under certain circumstances, the amount of gain equal to a specified portion of such discount, constitutes ordinary income. In the case of certain corporate obligations issued after May 27, 1969, in general, section 1232(a)(3) provides for the inclusion as interest in gross income of a ratable portion of original issue discount for each taxable year over the life of the obligation, section 1232(a)(3)(E) provides for an increase in basis equal to the original issue discount included in gross income, and section 1232(a)(2)(A) provides that any gain realized on such an obligation held more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) shall be considered gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977). For the requirements for reporting
original issue discount on certain obligations issued after May 27, 1969, see section 6049(a) and the regulations thereunder. Section 1232(c) treats as ordinary income a portion of any gain realized upon the disposition of coupon obligations which were acquired after August 16, 1954, and before January 1, 1958, without all coupons maturing more than 12 months after purchase attached, and coupon obligations which were acquired after December 31, 1957, without all coupons maturing after the date of purchase attached.
(b)
Requirement that obligations be capital assets.
In order for section 1232 to be applicable, an obligation must be a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer. See section 1221 and the regulations thereunder. Obligations held by a dealer in securities (except as provided in section 1236) or obligations arising from the sale of inventory or personal services by the holder are not capital assets. However, obligations held by a financial institution, as defined in section 582(c) (relating to treatment of losses and gains on bonds of certain financial institutions) for investment and not primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of the financial institution's trade or business, are capital assets. Thus, with respect ot obligations held as capital assets by such a financial institution which are corporate obligations to which section 1232(a)(3) applies, there is ratable inclusion of original issue discount as interest in gross income under paragraph (a) of § 1.1232-3A, and gain on a sale or exchange (including retirement) may be subject to ordinary income treatment under section 582(c) and paragraph (a)(1) of § 1.1232-3.
(c)
Face-amount certificates
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of section 1232, this section and §§ 1.1232-3 and 1.1232-3A, the term
other evidence of indebtedness
includes
face amount certificates
as defined in section 2(a)(15) and 4 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2 and 80a-4).
(2)
Amounts received in taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 1964.
Amounts received in taxable years beginning prior to January 1, 1964 under face amount certificates which were issued after December 31, 1954, are subject to the limitation on tax under section 72(e)(3). See paragraph (g) of § 1.72-11 (relating to limit on tax attributable to receipt of a lump sum received as an annuity payment). However, section 72(e)(3) does not apply to any such amounts received in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1963.
(3)
Certificates issued after December 31, 1975.
In the case of a face-amount certificate issued after December 31, 1975 (other than such a certificate issued pursuant to a written commitment which was binding on such date and at all times thereafter), the provisions of section 1232(a)(3) (relating to the ratable inclusion of original issue discount in gross income) shall apply. See section 1232-3A(f). For treatment of any increase in basis under section 1232(a)(3)(A) as consideration paid for purposes of computing the investment in the contract under section 72, see § 1.72-6(c)(4).
(d)
Certain deposits in financial institutions.
For purposes of section 1232, this section and §§ 1.1232-3 and 1.1232-3A, the term
other evidence of indebtedness
includes certificates of deposit, time deposits, bonus plans, and other deposit arrangements with banks, domestic building and loan associations, and similar financial institutions. For application of section 1232 to such deposits, see paragraph (e) of § 1.1232-3A. However, section 1232, this section, and §§ 1.1232-2 through 1.1232-4 shall not apply to such deposits made prior to January 1, 1971. For treatment of renewable certificates of deposit, see paragraph (e)(4) of § 1.1232-3A.
[T.D. 7154, 36 FR 25000, Dec. 28, 1971, as amended by T.D. 7311, 39 FR 11880, Apr. 1, 1974; T.D. 7365, 40 FR 27936, July 2, 1975; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980; T.D. 9849, 84 FR 9237, Mar. 14, 2019]
§ 1.1232-2
[Reserved]
§ 1.1232-3
Gain upon sale or exchange of obligations issued at a discount after December 31, 1954.
(a)
General rule; sale or exchange
—(1)
Obligations issued by a corporation after May 27, 1969
—(i)
General rule.
Under section 1232(a)(2)(A), in the case of gain realized upon the sale or exchange of an obligation issued at a discount by a corporation after May 27, 1969 (other than an obligation subject to the transitional rule of subparagraph (4) of this
paragraph), and held by the taxpayer for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977):
(
a
) If at the time of original issue there was no intention to call the obligation before maturity, such gain shall be considered as long-term capital gain, or
(
b
) If at the time of original issue there was an intention to call the obligation before maturity, such gain shall be considered ordinary income to the extent it does not exceed the excess of:
(
1
) An amount equal to the entire
original issue discount,
over
(
2
) An amount equal to the entire
original issue discount
multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the sum of the number of complete months and any fractional part of a month elapsed since the date of original issue and the denominator of which is the number of complete months and any fractional part of a month from the date of original issue to the stated maturity date.
The balance, if any, of the gain shall be considered as long-term capital gain. The amount described in (
2
) of this subdivision (
b
) in effect reduces the amount of original issue discount to be treated as ordinary income under this subdivision (
b
) by the amounts previously includible (regardless of whether included) by all holders (computed, however, as to any holder without regard to any purchase allowance under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of § 1.1232-3A and without regard to whether any holder purchased at a premium as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of § 1.1232-3).
(ii)
Cross references.
For definition of the terms
original issue discount
and
intention to call before maturity,
see paragraphs (b) (1) and (4) respectively of this section. For definition of the term
date of original issue,
see paragraph (b)(3) of this section. For computation of the number of complete months and any fractional portion of a month, see paragraph (a)(3) of § 1.1232-3A.
(iii)
Effect of section 582(c).
Gain shall not be considered to be long-term capital gain under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph if section 582(c) (relating to treatment of losses and gains on bonds of certain financial institutions) applies.
(2)
Examples.
The provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On January 1, 1970, A, a calendar-year taxpayer, purchases at original issue for cash of $7,600, M Corporation's 10-year, 5 percent bond which has a stated redemption price at maturity of $10,000. On January 1, 1972, A sells the bond to B, for $9,040. A has previously included $480 of the original issue discount in his gross income (see example (1) of paragraph (d) of § 1.1232-3A) and increased his basis in the bond by that amount to $8,080 (see paragraph (c) of § 1.1232-3A). Thus, if at the time of original issue there was no intention to call the bond before maturity, A's gain of $960 (amount realized, $9,040, less adjusted basis, $8,080) is considered long-term capital gain.

# Example 2.
(i) Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that at the time of original issue there was an intention to call the bond before maturity. The amount of the entire gain includible by A as ordinary income under subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph is determined as follows:
(1) Entire original issue discount (stated redemption price at maturity, $10,000, minus issue price, $7,600)
$2,400
(2) Less: Line (1), $2,400, multiplied by months elapsed since date of original issue, 24, divided by months from such date to stated maturity date, 120
$480
(3) Maximum amount includible by A as ordinary income
$1,920
Since the amount in line (3) is greater than A's gain, $960, A's entire gain is includible as ordinary income.
(ii) On January 1, 1979, B, a calendar-year taxpayer, sells the bond to C for $10,150. Assume that B has included $120 of original issue discount in his gross income for each taxable year he held the bond (see example (2) of paragraph (d) of § 1.1232-3A) and therefore increased his basis by $840 (i.e., $120 each year × 7 years) to $9,880. B's gain is therefore $270 (amount realized, $10,150, less basis, $9,880). The amount of such gain includible by B as ordinary income under subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph is determined as follows:
(1) Entire original issue discount (as determined in part (i) of this example)
$2,400
(2) Less: Line (1), $2,400, multiplied by months elapsed since date of original issue, 108, divided by months from such date to stated maturity date, 120
$2,160
(3) Maximum amount includible by B as ordinary income
$240
Since the amount in line (3) is less than B's gain, $270, only $240 of B's gain is includible as ordinary income. The remaining portion
of B's gain, $30, is considered long-term capital gain.
(3)
Obligations issued by a corporation on or before May 27, 1969, and government obligations.
Under section 1232(a)(2)(B), if gain is realized on the sale or exchange after December 31, 1957, of an obligation held by the taxpayer more than 6 months, and if the obligation either was issued at a discount after December 31, 1954, and on or before May 27, 1969, by a corporation or was issued at a discount after December 31, 1954, by or on behalf of the United States or a foreign country, or a political subdivision of either, then such gain shall be considered ordinary income to the extent it does not exceed:
(i) An amount equal to the entire
original issue discount,
or
(ii) If at the time of original issue there was no intention to call the obligation before maturity, a portion of the
original issue discount
determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section,
And the balance, if any, of the gain shall be considered as long-term capital gain. For the definition of the terms
original issue discount
and
intention to call before maturity,
see paragraphs (b) (1) and (4) respectively of this section. See section 1037(b) and paragraph (b) of § 1.1037-1 for special rules which are applicable in applying section 1232(a)(2)(B) and this subparagraph to gain realized on the disposition or redemption of obligations of the United States which were received from the United States in an exchange upon which gain or loss is not recognized because of section 1037(a) (or so much of section 1031 (b) or (c) as relates to section 1037(a)).
(4)
Transitional rule.
Subparagraph (3) of this paragraph (in lieu of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph) shall apply to an obligation issued by a corporation pursuant to a written commitment which was binding on May 27, 1969, and at all times thereafter.
(5)
Obligations issued after December 31, 1954, and sold or exchanged before January 1, 1958.
Gain realized upon the sale or exchange before January 1, 1958, of an obligation issued at a discount after December 31, 1954, and held by the taxpayer for more than 6 months, shall be considered ordinary income to the extent it equals a specified portion of the
original issue discount,
and the balance, if any, of the gain shall be considered as long-term capital gain. The term
original issue discount
is defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The computation of the amount of gain which constitutes ordinary income is illustrated in paragraph (c) of this section.
(6)
Obligations issued before January 1, 1955.
Whether gain representing original issue discount realized upon the sale or exchange of obligations issued at a discount before January 1, 1955, is capital gain or ordinary income shall be determined without reference to section 1232.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Original issue discount
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of section 1232, the term
original issue discount
means the difference between the issue price and the stated redemption price at maturity. The stated redemption price is determined without regard to optional call dates.
(ii)
De minimis rule.
If the original issue discount is less than one-fourth of 1 percent of the stated redemption price at maturity multiplied by the number of full years from the date of original issue to maturity, then the discount shall be considered to be zero. For example, a 10-year bond with a stated redemption price at maturity of $100 issued at $98 would be regarded as having an original issue discount of zero. Thus, any gain realized by the holder would be a long-term capital gain if the bond was a capital asset in the hands of the holder and held by him for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977). However, if the bond were issued at $97.50 or less, the original issue discount would not be considered zero.
(iii)
Stated redemption price at maturity
—(
a
) Definition. Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision (iii), the term
stated redemption price at maturity
means the amount fixed by the last modification of the purchase agreement, including dividends, interest, and any other amounts, however designated, payable at that time. If any amount based on a fixed rate of
simple or compound interest is actually payable or will be treated as constructively received under section 451 and the regulations thereunder either: (
1
) At fixed periodic intervals of one year or less during the entire term of an obligation, or (
2
) except as provided in subdivision (
e
) of this paragraph (b)(1)(iii), at maturity in the case of an obligation with a term of one year or less, any such amount payable at maturity shall not be included in determining the stated redemption price at maturity. For purposes of subdivision (
a
)(
2
) of this paragraph (b)(1)(iii), the term of an obligation shall include any renewal period with respect to which, under the terms of the obligation, the holder may either take action or refrain from taking action which would prevent the actual or constructive receipt of any interest on such obligation until the expiration of any such renewal period. To illustrate this paragraph (b)(1)(iii), assume that a note which promises to pay $1,000 at the end of three years provides for additional amounts labeled as interest to be paid at the rate of $50 at the end of the first year, $50 at the end of the second year, and $120 at the end of the third year. The stated redemption price at maturity will be $1,070 since only $50 of the $120 payable at the end of the third year is based on a fixed rate of simple or compound interest. If, however, the $120 were payable at the end of the second year, so that only $50 in addition to principal would be payable at the end of the third year, then under the rule for serial obligations contained in subparagraph (2)(iv)(
c
) of this paragraph, the $1,000 note is treated as consisting of two series. The first series is treated as maturing at the end of the second year at a stated redemption price of $70. The second series is treated as maturing at the end of the third year at a stated redemption price of $1,000. For the calculation of issue price and the allocation of original issue discount with respect to each such series, see example (3) of subparagraph (2)(iv)(
f
) of this paragraph.
(
b
)
Special rules.
In the case of face -amount certificates, the redemption price at maturity is the price as modified through changes such as extensions of the purchase agreement and includes any dividends which are payable at maturity. In the case of an obligation issued as part of an investment unit consisting of such obligation and an option (which is not excluded by (
c
) of this subdivision (iii)), security, or other property, the term
stated redemption price at maturity
means the amount payable on maturity in respect of the obligation, and does not include any amount payable in respect of the option, security, or other property under a repurchase agreement or option to buy or sell the option, security, or other property. For application of this subdivision to certain deposits in financial institutions, see paragraph (e) of § 1.1232-3A.
(
c
)
Excluded option.
An option is excluded by this subdivision (c) if it is an option to which paragraph (a) of § 1.61-15 applies or if it is an option, referred to in paragraph (a) of § 1.83-7, granted in connection with performance of services to which section 421 does not apply.
(
d
)
Obligation issued in installments.
If an obligation is issued by a corporation under terms whereby the holder makes installment payments, then the stated redemption price for each installment payment shall be computed in a manner consistent with the rules contained in subparagraph (2)(iv) of this paragraph for computing the issue price for each series of a serial obligation. For application of this subdivision (
d
) to certain open account deposit arrangements, see examples (1) and (2) of paragraph (e)(5)(ii) of § 1.1232-3A.
(
e
)
Application of definition.
Subdivision (
a
)(
2
) of this paragraph (b)(1)(iii) shall not apply:
(
1
) For taxable years beginning before September 19, 1979, if for the issuer's last taxable year beginning before September 19, 1978, the rules of § 1.163-4 were properly applied by the issuer, or
(
2
) In the case of an obligation with a term of six months or less held by a nonresident alien individual or foreign corporation, but only for purposes of the appliction of sections 871 and 881.
(iv)
Carryover of original issue discount.
If in pursuance of a plan of reorganization an obligation is received in an exchange for another obligation, and if gain or loss is not recognized in
whole or in part on such exchange of obligations by reason, for example, of section 354 or 356, then the obligation received shall be considered to have the same original issue discount as the obligation surrendered reduced by the amount of gain (if any) recognized as ordinary income upon such exchange of obligations, and by the amount of original issue discount with respect to the obligation surrendered which was included as interest income under the ratable inclusion rules of sections 1232(a)(3) and 1.1232-3A. If inclusion as interest of the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount is required under section 1232(a)(3) with respect to the obligation received, see paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of § 1.1232-3A for computation of the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount. For special rules in connection with certain exchanges of U.S. obligations, see section 1037.
(2)
Issue price defined
—(i)
In general.
The term
issue price
in the case of obligations registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission means the initial offering price to the public at which price a substantial amount of such obligations were sold. For this purpose, the term
the public
does not include bond houses and brokers, or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters or wholesalers. Ordinarily, the issue price will be the first price at which the obligations were sold to the public, and the issue price will not change if, due to market developments, part of the issue must be sold at a different price. When obligations are privately placed, the issue price of each obligation is the price paid by the first buyer of the particular obligation, irrespective of the issue price of the remainder of the issue. In the case of an obligation issued by a foreign obligor, the issue price shall be increased by the amount, if any, of interest equalization tax paid under section 4911 (and not credited, refunded, or reimbursed) on the acquisition of the obligation by the first buyer. In the case of an obligation which is convertible into stock or another obligation, the issue price includes any amount paid in respect of the conversion privilege. However, in the case of an obligation issued as part of an investment unit (as defined in subdivision (ii)(
a
) of this subparagraph), the issue price of the obligation includes only that portion of the initial offering price or price paid by the first buyer properly allocable to the obligation under the rules prescribed in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. The terms
initial offering price
and
price paid by the first buyer
include the aggregate payments made by the purchaser under the purchase agreement, including modifications thereof. Thus, all amounts paid by the purchaser under the purchase agreement or a modification of it are included in the issue price (but in the case of an obligation issued as part of an investment unit, only to the extent allocable to such obligation under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph), such as amounts paid upon face-amount certificates or installment trust certificates in which the purchaser contracts to make a series of payments which will be returnable to the holder with an increment at a later date.
(ii)
Investment units consisting of obligations and property—(a) In general.
An investment unit, within the meaning of this subdivision (ii) and for purposes of section 1232, consists of an obligation and an option, security, or other property. For purposes of this subparagraph, the initial offering price of an investment unit shall be allocated to the individual elements of the unit on the basis of their respective fair market values. However, if the fair market value of the option, security, or other property is not readily ascertainable (within the meaning of paragraph (c) of § 1.421-6), then the portion of the initial offering price or price paid by the first buyer of the unit which is allocable to the obligation issued as part of such unit shall be ascertained as of the time of acquisition of such unit by reference to the assumed price at which such obligation would have been issued had it been issued apart from such unit. The assumed price of the obligation shall be ascertained by comparison to the yields at which obligations of a similar character which are not issued as part of an investment unit are sold in arm's length transactions, and by adjusting the price of the obligation in question to this yield. The adjustment may be made by subtracting from the face
amount of the obligation the total present value of the interest foregone by the purchaser as a result of purchasing the obligation at a lower yield as part of an investment unit. In most cases, assumed price may also be determined in a similar manner through the use of standard bond tables. Any reasonable method may be used in selecting an obligation for comparative purposes. Obligations of the same grade and classification shall be used to the extent possible, and proper regard shall be given, with respect to both the obligation in question and the comparative obligation, to the solvency of the issuer, the nature of the issuer's trade or business, the presence and nature of security for the obligation, the geographic area in which the loan is made, and all other factors relevant to the circumstances. An obligation which is convertible into stock or another obligation must not be used as a comparative obligation (except where the investment unit contains an obligation convertible into stock or another obligation), since such an obligation would not reflect the yield attributable solely to the obligation element of the investment unit.
(
b
)
Agreement as to assumed price.
In the case of an investment unit which is privately placed, the assumed price at which the obligation would have been issued had it been issued apart from such unit may be agreed to by the issuer and the original purchaser of the investment unit in writing on or before the date of purchase. Alternatively, an agreement between the issuer and original purchaser may specify the rate of interest which would have been paid on the obligation if the transaction were one not involving the issuance of options, and an assumed issue price may be determined (in the manner described in (
a
) of this subdivision) from such agreed assumed rate of interest. An assumed price based upon such an agreement between the parties will generally be presumed to be the issue price of the obligation with respect to the issuer, original purchaser, and all subsequent holders:
Provided,
That the agreement was made in arm's length negotiations between parties having adverse interests:
And, provided further,
That such price does not, under the rules stated in (
a
) of this subdivision, appear to be clearly erroneous. An assumed issue price agreed to by the parties as provided herein will not be considered clearly erroneous if it is not less than the face value adjusted (in the manner described in (
a
) of this subdivision) to a yield which is one percentage point greater than the actual rate of interest payable on the obligation. Similarly, if the agreement between the parties specifies an agreed assumed rate of interest (in lieu of an agreed assumed issue price) and such agreed rate is not more than 1 percentage point greater than the actual rate payable on the obligation, an adjusted issue price based upon such agreed assumed rate of interest will not be considered clearly erroneous.
(
c
)
Cross references.
For rules relating to the deductibility by the issuing corporation of bond discount resulting from an allocation under the rule stated in (
a
) of this subdivision, see §§ 1.163-3 and 1.163-4. For rules relating to the basis of obligations and options, securities, or other property acquired in investment units, see § 1.1012-1(d). For rules relating to certain reporting requirements with respect to options acquired in connection with evidences of indebtedness and for the tax treatment of such options, see § 1.61-15, and section 1234 and the regulations thereunder. With respect to the tax consequences to the issuing corporation upon the exercise of options issued in connection with evidences of indebtedness to which this section applies, see section 1032 and the regulations thereunder.
(
d
)
Examples.
The application of the principles set forth in this subdivision (ii) may be illustrated by the following examples in each of which it is assumed that there was no intention to call the note before maturity:

# Example 1.
M Corporation is a small manufacturer of electronic components located in the southwestern United States. On January 1, 1969, in consideration for the payment of $41,500, M issues to X its unsecured note for $40,000 together with warrants to purchase 3,000 shares of M stock at $10 per share at any time during the term of the note. The note is payable in 4 years and provides for interest at the rate of 5 percent per year, payable semiannually. The fair market values of
the note and the warrants are not readily ascertainable. Assume that companies in the same industry as M Corporation, and similarly situated both financially and geographically, are generally able to borrow money on their unsecured notes at an annual interest rate of 6 percent. Using a present value table, the calculation of the issue price of a 5 percent, 4 year, $40,000 note, discounted to yield 6 percent compounded semiannually is made as follows:
(1)
Semiannual interest
period
(2)
Amount payable at 5 percent
(3)
Factor for present value discounted at 3 percent per period
(2) × (3)
Present value of payment
1
$1,000
0.9709
$970.90
2
1,000
.9426
942.60
3
1,000
.9151
915.10
4
1,000
.8885
888.50
5
1,000
.8626
862.60
6
1,000
.8375
837.50
7
1,000
.8131
813.10
8
1,000
.7894
789.40
8
40,000
.7804
31,576.00
Total present value of note discounted at 6 percent, compounded semiannually
38,595.70
The same result may be reached through the use of a standard bond table or by the following present value calculation:
Present value of annuity of $1,000 payable over 8 periods at 3 percent per period = 1000 × 7.0197 =
$7,019.70
Add: Present value of principal (as calculated above)
31,576.00
Total
$38,595.70
Accordingly, the assumed price at which M's note would have been issued had it been issued without stock purchase warrants, i.e., that portion of the $41,500 price paid by X which is allocable to M's note, is $38,596 (rounded). Since the price payable on redemption of M's note at maturity is $40,000, the original issue discount on M's note is $1,404 ($40,000 minus $38,596). Under the rules stated in § 1.163-3, M is entitled to a deduction, to be prorated or amortized over the life of the note, equal to this original issue discount on the note. The excess of the price for the unit over the portion of such price allocable to the note, $2,904 ($41,500 minus $38,596), is allocable to and is the basis of the stock purchase warrants acquired by X in connection with M's note. Upon the exercise of X's warrants, M will be allowed no deduction and will have no income. Upon maturity of the note X will receive $40,000 from M, of which $1,404, the amount of the original issue discount, will be taxable as ordinary income. If X were to transfer the note at its face amount to A 2 years after the issue date, X would realize, under section 1232(a)(2)(B), ordinary income of $702 (one-half of $1,404).

# Example 2.
(1) On January 1, 1969, N Corporation negotiates with Y, a small business investment company, for a loan in the amount of $51,500 in consideration of which N Corporation issues to Y its unsecured 5-year note for $50,000, together with warrants to purchase 2,000 shares of N stock at $5 per share at any time during the term of the note. The note provides for interest of 6 percent, payable semiannually. The fair market values of the note and warrants are not readily ascertainable. The loan agreement between Y and N contains a provision, agreed to in arms-length bargaining between the parties, that a rate of 7 percent payable semiannually would have been applied to the loan if warrants were not issued as part of the consideration for the loan. The issue price of the note is $47,921 (rounded), determined with the use of a standard bond table, or computed in the manner illustrated in Example 1 or in the following alternative manner:
(1)
Interest period
(2)
Interest rate differential
(3)
Principal
(4)
Interest foregone for period (
1/2
%)
(5)
Factor for present value discounted at 3
1/2
percent per period
(4) × (5)
Present value of interest foregone
1
1%(7%-6%)
$50,000
250
0.9662
$241.53
2
1%
50,000
250
.9335
233.38
3
1%
50,000
250
.9019
225.48
4
1%
50,000
250
.8714
217.85
5
1%
50,000
250
.8420
210.50
6
1%
50,000
250
.8135
203.38
7
1%
50,000
250
.7860
196.50
8
1%
50,000
250
.7594
189.85
9
1%
50,000
250
.7337
183.43
10
1%
50,000
250
.7089
177.25
Total present value of interest foregone
$2,079.15
Principal
50,000.00
Less: Total present value of interest foregone
2,079.15
Issue price
47,920.85
The calculation of present value of interest foregone may also be made as follows:
Present value of annuity of $250 discounted for 10 periods at 3
1/2
percent per period = $250 × 8.3166 = $2,079.15.
The total present value of interest foregone, $2,079, is also the original issue discount attributable to the note ($50,000 −$47,921). Under (
b
) of this subdivision, since the agreed assumed rate of interest of 7 percent is not more than 1 percentage point greater than the actual rate payable on the note, determination of the issue price of the note (and original issue discount) based upon such assumed rate will be presumed to be correct and will not be considered clearly erroneous, provided that both N and Y adhere to such determination. Under the rules in § 1.163-3, N is entitled to a deduction, to be prorated or amortized over the life of the note, equal to the original issue discount on the note. The excess of the price paid for the unit over the portion of such price allocable to the note, $3,579 ($51,500−$47,921) is allocable to and is the basis of the stock purchase warrants acquired by Y in connection with N's note. Upon the exercise or sale of the warrants by Y, N will be allowed no deduction and will have no income. Upon maturity of the note Y will receive $50,000 from N, of which $2,079, the amount of the original issue discount, will be taxable as ordinary income. If Y were to transfer the note at its face value to B 2
1/2
years after the issue date, Y would realize, under section 1232(a)(2)(B), ordinary income of $1,039.50 (one-half of $2,079).
(2) Assume that instead of the parties agreeing on an assumed interest rate at which the obligation would have been issued without the warrants, the parties agreed that the obligation at the actual 6 percent rate would have been issued without the warrants at a discounted price of $48,000. In this situation the agreed assumed issue price is presumed to be correct since it is not less than the face value adjusted (in the manner illustrated in part (
1
) of this example) to a yield which is one percentage point greater than the actual rate of interest payable on the obligation ($47,921).

# Example 3.
O Corporation is a small advertising company located in the northeastern United States. Z is a tax-exempt organization. In consideration for the payment of $60,000, O issues to Z, in a transaction not within the scope of section 503(b), its unsecured 5-year note for $60,000, together with warrants to purchase 6,000 shares of O stock at $10 per share at any time during the term of the note. The note is subject to quarterly amortization at the rate of $3,000 per quarter, and provides for interest on the outstanding unpaid balance at an annual rate of 6 percent payable quarterly (1
1/2
percent per quarter). The fair market values of the notes and warrants are not readily ascertainable. The loan agreement between O and Z contains a recital that if the $60,000 note had been issued without the warrants only $45,000 would have been paid for it. An examination of relevant facts indicates that companies in the same industry as O Corporation, and similarly situated both financially and geographically, are able to borrow money on their unsecured notes at an annual interest cost of 8
1/2
percent payable quarterly (2
1/8
percent per quarter). By reference to a present value table, it is found that the present value of O's note discounted to yield 8
1/2
percent compounded quarterly is $56,608 (rounded). The computation is as follows:
(1)
Quarterly interest period
(2)
Principal payable
(3)
Interest payable (1
1/2
percent)
(4)
Total amount payable (2) + (3)
(5)
Factor for present value discounted at 2
1/8
percent per quarter
(6)
Present value of total payment (4) × (5)
1
$3,000
$900
$3,900
0.9792
$3,818.88
2
3,000
855
3,855
.9588
3,696.17
3
3,000
810
3,810
.9389
3,577.21
4
3,000
765
3,765
.9193
3,461.16
5
3,000
720
3,720
.9002
3,348.74
6
3,000
675
3,675
.8815
3,239.51
7
3,000
630
3,630
.8631
3,133.05
8
3,000
585
3,585
.8452
3,030.04
9
3,000
540
3,540
.8276
2,929.70
10
3,000
495
3,495
.8104
2,832.35
11
3,000
450
3,450
.7935
2,737.58
12
3,000
405
3,405
.7770
2,645.69
13
3,000
360
3,360
.7608
2,556.29
14
3,000
315
3,315
.7450
2,469.68
15
3,000
270
3,270
.7295
2,385.47
16
3,000
225
3,225
.7143
2,303.62
17
3,000
180
3,180
.6994
2,224.09
18
3,000
135
3,135
.6849
2,147.16
19
3,000
90
3,090
.6706
2,072.15
20
3,000
45
3,045
.6567
1,999.65
Total
56,608.19
This amount ($56,608) is the assumed price at which the note would have been issued had it been issued without stock purchase warrants. The assumed price of $45,000 agreed to by the parties is not presumed to be correct since it is less than the face value adjusted to a yield which is one percentage point greater than the actual rate of interest payable on the obligation. The parties did not have adverse interests in agreeing upon an assumed price (since an excessively large amount of original issue discount would benefit O, the borrower, without adversely affecting Z, an exempt organization which would pay no tax on original issue discount income), and the price agreed to appears to be clearly erroneous when compared to the $56,608 assumed issue price determined under the principles of (
a
) of this subdivision. Since the maturity value of O's note is $60,000, the original issue discount on O's note is $3,392 ($60,000 minus $56,608). Under the rules in § 1.163-3, O is entitled to a deduction, to be prorated or amortized over the life of the note, equal to this original issue discount on the note. The excess of the price paid for the unit over the portion of such price allocable to the note, $3,392 ($60,000 minus $56,608), is allocable to and is the basis of the stock purchase warrants acquired by Z in connection with O's note. Upon the exercise or sale of the warrants by Z, O will be allowed no deduction and will have no income.
(iii)
Issuance for property after May 27, 1969
—(
a
)
In general.
Except as provided in (
b
) of this subdivision, if an obligation or an investment unit is issued for property other than money, the issue price of such obligation shall be the stated redemption price at maturity and, therefore, no original issue discount is created as a result of the exchange. However, in such case, there may be an amount treated as interest under section 483. In the case of certain exchanges of obligations of the United States for other such obligations, see section 1037 for the determination of the amount of original issue discount on the obligation acquired in the exchange. For carryover of original issue discount in the case of certain exchanges of obligations, see subparagraph (1)(iv) of this paragraph.
(
b
)
Exceptions for original issue discount.
If an obligation or investment unit is issued for property in an exchange which is not pursuant to a plan of reorganization referred to in (
d
) of this subdivision, and if:
(
1
) The obligation, investment unit, or an element of the investment unit is part of an issue a portion of which is traded on an established securities market, or
(
2
) The property for which such obligation or investment unit is issued is stock or securities which are traded on an established securities market
then the issue price of the obligation or investment unit shall be the fair market value of the property for which such obligation or investment unit is issued, as determined under (
c
) of this subdivision. Such issue price shall control for purposes of determining the amount realized by the person exchanging the property for the obligation or unit issued and the bases of the property acquired by the holder and issuer.
An obligation which is not traded on an established securities market and which is not part of an issue or investment unit a portion of which is so traded shall not be treated as property described in (
1
) of this (
b
) even though the obligation is convertible into property so traded. For purposes of this (
b
), an obligation, investment unit, or element of an investment unit shall be treated as traded on an established securities market if it is so traded on or within 10
trading
days after the date it is issued.
Trading
days shall mean those days on which an established securities market is open. For purposes of this subdivision (iii), the term
established securities market
shall have the same meaning as in paragraph (d)(4) of § 1.453-3 (relating to limitations on installment method for purchaser evidences of indebtedness payable on demand or readily tradable).
(
c
)
Determination of fair market value in cases to which (b) of this subdivision applies.
In general, for purposes of (
b
) of this subdivision, the fair market value of property for which an obligation or investment unit is issued shall be deemed to be the same as the fair market value of such obligation or investment unit, determined by reference to the fair market value of that portion of the issue, of which such obligation or unit is a part, which is traded on an established securities market. The fair market value of such obligation or unit shall be determined as of the first date after the date of issue (within the meaning of section 1232(b)(3)) that such
obligation or unit is traded on an established securities market. If, however, the obligation or investment unit is not part of an issue a portion of which is traded on an established securities market, but the property for which the obligation or investment unit is issued is stock or securities which are traded on an established securities market, the fair market value of such property shall be the fair market value of such stock or securities on the date such obligation or unit is issued for such property. The fair market value of property for purposes of this (
c
) shall be determined as provided in § 20.2031-2 of this chapter (Estate Tax Regulations) but without applying the blockage and other special rules contained in paragraph (e) thereof.
(
d
)
Not in reorganization.
An exchange which is not pursuant to a reorganization referred to in this subdivision (
d
) is an exchange in which the obligation or investment unit is not issued pursuant to a plan of reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a)(1) or pursuant to an insolvency reorganization within the meaning of section 371, 373, or 374. Thus, for example, no original issue discount is created on an obligation issued in a recapitalization within the meaning of section 368(a)(1)(E). Similarly, no original issue discount is created on an obligation issued in an exchange, pursuant to a plan of reorganization, to which section 361 applies regardless of the income tax consequences to any person who pursuant to such plan is the ultimate recipient of the obligation. The application of section 351 shall not preclude the creation of original issue discount. For carryover of original issue discount in the case of an exchange of obligations pursuant to a plan of reorganization, see subparagraph (1)(iv) of this paragraph.
(
e
)
Effective date.
Determinations with respect to obligations issued on or before May 27, 1969, or pursuant to a written commitment which was binding on that date and at all times thereafter, shall be made without regard to this subdivision (iii).
(iv)
Serial obligations—(a) In general.
If an issue of obligations which matures serially is issued by a corporation, and if on the basis of the facts and circumstances in such case an independent issue price for each particular maturity can be established, then the obligations with each particular maturity shall be considered a separate series, and the obligations of each such series shall be treated as a separate issue with a separate issue price, maturity date, and stated redemption price at maturity. The ratable monthly portion of original issue discount attributable to each obligation within a particular series shall be determined and ratably included as interest in gross income under the rules of § 1.1232-3A.
(
b
)
Issue price not independently established.
If a separate issue price cannot be established with respect to each series of an issue of obligations which matures serially, the issue price for each obligation of each series shall be its stated redemption price at maturity minus the amount of original issue discount allocated thereto in accordance with (
d
) of this subdivision. The amount of original issue discount so allocated shall be ratably included as interest in gross income under rules of § 1.1232-3A.
(
c
)
Single obligation rule.
If a single corporate obligation provides for payments (other than payments which would not be included in the stated redemption price at maturity under subparagraph (1)(iii) of this paragraph) in two or more installments, the provisions of (
b
) of this subdivision shall be applied by treating such obligation as an issue of obligations consisting of more than one series each of which matures on the due date of each such installment payment.
(
d
)
Allocation of discount.
For purposes of (
b
) and (
c
) of this subdivision, the original issue discount with respect to each series of an issue shall be the total original issue discount for the issue multiplied by a fraction:
(
1
) The numerator of which is the product of (
i
) the stated redemption price of such series and (
ii
) the number of complete years (and any fraction thereof) constituting the period for such series from the date of original issue (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) to its stated maturity date, and
(
2
) The denominator of which is the sum of the products determined in (
1
)
of this subdivision (
d
) with respect to each such series.
If a series consists of more than one obligation, the original issue discount allocated to such series shall be apportioned to such obligations in proportion to the stated redemption price of each. Computations under this subdivision (
d
) may be made using periods other than years, such as, for example, months or periods of 3 months.
(
e
)
Effective date.
The provisions of this subdivision (iv) shall apply with respect to corporate obligations issued after July 22, 1971. However, no inference shall be drawn from the preceding sentence with respect to serial obligations issued prior to such date.
(
f
)
Examples.
The provisions of this subdivision (iv) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On January 1, 1972, P Corporation issued a note with a total face value of $100,000 to B for cash of $94,000. The terms of the note provide that $50,000 is payable on December 31, 1973, and the other $50,000 on December 31, 1975. Each payment is treated as the stated redemption price of a series, and the total original issue discount with respect to the note, $6,000, is allocated to each such series as follows:
Year of maturity
1973
1975
Total
(1) Stated redemption price
$50,000
$50,000
(2) Multiply by years outstanding
2
4
(3) Product of bond years
$100,000
$200,000
(4) Sum of products
$300,000
(5) Fractional portion of discount
$100,000
$200,000
$300,000
$300,000
(6) Multiply line (5) by discount for entire issue
$6,000
$6,000
(7) Discount for each series
$2,000
$4,000
(8) Issue price (line (1), minus line (7))
$48,000
$46,000

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that a separate note is issued for each payment. The result is the same as in example (1).

# Example 3.
On January 1, 1971, Y Bank, a corporation, issues a note to C for $1,000 cash. The terms of the note provide that $50 will be paid at the end of the first year, $120 at the end of the second year, and $1,050 at the end of the third year. Under (
c
) of this subdivision (iv), the $1,000 note is treated as consisting of two series, the first of which matures at the end of the second year, and the second of which matures at the end of the third year. The issue price and the allocation of original issue discount with respect to each series is computed as follows:
Year of maturity
1972
1973
Total
(1) Stated redemption price
$70
$1,000
(2) Multiply by years outstanding
2
3
(3) Product of bond years
$140
$3,000
(4) Sum of products
$3,140
(5) Fractional portion of discount
$140
$3,000
$3,140
$3,140
(6) Multiply line (5) by discount for entire issue
$70
$70
(7) Discount for each series
$3.12
$66.88
(8) Issue price (line 1 minus line (7))
$66.88
$933.12
(3)
Date of original issue.
In the case of issues of obligations which are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the term
date of original issue
means the date on which the issue was first sold to the public at the issue price. In the case of issues which are privately placed, the term
date of original issue
means the date on which each obligation was sold to the original purchaser.
(4)
Intention to call before maturity
—(i)
Meaning of term.
For purposes of section 1232, the term
intention to call the bond or other evidence of indebtedness before maturity
means an understanding between (
a
) the issuing corporation (such corporation is hereinafter referred to as the
issuer
), and (
b
) the original purchaser of such obligation (or, in the case of obligations constituting part of an issue, any of the original purchasers of such obligations) that the issuer will redeem the obligation before maturity. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term
original purchaser
does not include persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters or dealers, who purchased the obligation for resale in the ordinary course of their trade or business. It is not necessary that the issuer's intention to call the obligation before maturity be communicated directly to
the original purchaser by the issuer. The understanding to call before maturity need not be unconditional; it may, for example, be dependent upon the financial condition of the issuer on the proposed early call date.
(ii)
Proof of intent
—(
a
)
In general.
Ordinarily, the existence or non-existance of an understanding at the time of original issue that the obligation will be redeemed before maturity shall be determined by an examination of all of the circumstances under which the obligation was issued and held. The fact that the obligation is issued with provisions on its face giving the issuer the privilege of redeeming the obligation before maturity is not determinative of an intention to call before maturity; likewise, the absence of such provision is not determinative of the absence of an intention to call before maturity. However, such provision, or the absence of such provision, is one of the circumstances to be given consideration along with other factors in determining whether an understanding existed. If the obligation was part of an issue registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and was sold to the public (whether or not sold directly to the public by the obligor) without representation to the public that the obligor intends to call the obligation before maturity, there shall be a presumption that no intention to call the obligation before maturity was in existence at the time of original issue. The existence of a provision on the face of an obligation giving the issuer the privilege of redeeming the obligation before maturity shall not in and of itself overcome the presumption set forth in the preceding sentence.
(
b
)
Circumstances indicating absence of understanding.
Examples of circumstances which would be evidence that there was no understanding at the time of original issue to redeem the obligation before maturity are:
(
1
) The issue price and term of the obligation appear to be reasonable, taking into account the interest rate, if any, on the obligation, for a corporation in the financial condition of the issuer at the time of issue.
(
2
) The original purchaser and the issuer are not related within the meaning of section 267(b) and have not engaged in transactions with each other (other than concerning the obligation).
(
3
) The original purchaser is not related within the meaning of section 267(b) to any of the officers or directors of the issuer, and he has not engaged in transactions with such officers or directors (other than concerning the obligation).
(
4
) The officers and directors of the issuer at the time of issue of the obligation are different from those in control at the time the obligation is called or the taxpayer disposes of it.
(
c
)
Gain treated as ordinary income in certain cases; computation.
The amount of gain treated as ordinary income under paragraph (a) (3)(ii) or (5) of this section is computed by multiplying the original issue discount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months the obligation was held by the holder and the denominator of which is the number of full months from the date of original issue to the date specified as the redemption date at maturity. (See paragraph (b)(3) of this section for definition of
date of original issue.
) The period that the obligation was held by the taxpayer shall include any period that it was held by another person if, under chapter 1 of the Code, for the purpose of determining gain or loss from a sale or exchange, the obligation has the same basis, in whole or in part, in the hands of the taxpayer as it would have in the hands of such other person. This computation is illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
An individual purchases a 10-year, 3-percent coupon bond for $900 on original issue on February 1, 1955, and sells it on February 20, 1960, for $940. The redemption price is $1,000. At the time of original issue, there was no intention to call the bond before maturity. The bond has been held by the taxpayer for 60 full months. (The additional days amounting to less than a full month are not taken into account.) The number of complete months from date of issue to date of maturity is 120 (10 years). The fraction
60/120
multiplied by the discount of $100 is equal to $50, which represents the proportionate part of the original issue discount attributable to the period of ownership by the taxpayer. Accordingly, any part of the gain up to $50 will be treated as ordinary income. Therefore, in this case the entire gain of $40 is treated as ordinary income.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts in the preceding example, except that the selling price of the bond is $970. In this case $50 of the gain of $70 is treated as ordinary income and the balance of $20 is treated as long-term capital gain.

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that the selling price of the bond is $800. In this case, the individual has a long-term capital loss of $100.

# Example 4.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that the bond is purchased by the second holder February 1, 1960, for $800. The second holder keeps it to the maturity date (February 1, 1965) when it is redeemed for $1,000. Since that holder has held the bond for 60 full months, he will, upon redemption, have $50 in ordinary income and $150 in long-term capital gain.
(
d
)
Exceptions to the general rule
—(
1
)
In general.
Section 1232(a)(2)(C) provides that section 1232(a)(2) does not apply (i) to obligations the interest on which is excluded from gross income under section 103 (relating to certain government obligations), or (ii) to any holder who purchases an obligation at a premium.
(
2
)
Premium.
For purposes of section 1232, this section, and § 1.1232-3A,
premium
means a purchase price which exceeds the stated redemption price of an obligation at its maturity. For purposes of the preceding sentence, if an obligation is acquired as part of an investment unit consisting of an option, security, or other property and an obligation, the purchase price of the obligation is that portion of the price paid or payable for the unit which is allocable to the obligation. The price paid for the unit shall be allocated to the individual elements of the unit on the basis of their respective fair market values. However, if the fair market value of the option, security, or other property is not readily ascertainable (within the meaning of paragraph (c) of § 1.421-6), then the price paid for the unit shall be allocated in accordance with the rules under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section for allocating the initial offering price of an investment unit to its elements. If, under chapter 1 of the Code, the basis of an obligation in the hands of the holder is the same, in whole or in part, for the purposes of determining gain or loss from a sale or exchange, as the basis of the obligation in the hands of another person who purchased the obligation at a premium, then the holder shall be considered to have purchased the obligation at a premium. Thus, the donee of an obligation purchased at a premium by the doner will be considered a holder who purchased the obligation at a premium.
(
e
)
Amounts previously includible in income.
Nothing in section 1232(a)(2) shall require the inclusion of any amount previously includible in gross income. Thus, if an amount was previously includible in a taxpayer's income on account of obligations issued at a discount and redeemable for fixed amounts increasing at stated intervals, or, under section 818(b) (relating to accrual of discount on bonds and other evidences of indebtedness held by life insurance companies), such amount is not again includible in the taxpayer's gross income under section 1232(a)(2). For example, amounts includible in gross income by a cash receipts and disbursements method taxpayer who has made an election under section 454 (a) or (c) (relating to accounting rules for certain obligations issued at a discount to which section 1232(a)(3) does not apply) are not includible in gross income under section 1232(a)(2). In the case of a gain which would include, under section 1232(a)(2), an amount considered to be ordinary income and a further amount considered long-term capital gain, any amount to which this paragraph applies is first used to offset the amount considered ordinary income. For example, on January 1, 1955, A purchases a 10-year bond which is redeemable for fixed amounts increasing at stated intervals. At the time of original issue, there was no intention to call the bond before maturity. The purchase price of the bond is $75, which is also the issue price. The stated redemption price at maturity of the bond is $100. A elects to treat the annual increase in the redemption price of the bond as income pursuant to section 454(a). On January 1, 1960, A sells the bond for $90. The total stated increase in the redemption price of the bond which A has reported annually as income for the taxable years 1955 through 1959 is $7. The portion of the original issue discount of $25 attributable to this period is $12.50, computed as follows:
60 (months bond is held by A)/120 (months from date of original issue to redemption date) × $25 (original issue discount)
However, $7, which represents the annual stated increase taken into income, is offset against the amount of $12.50, leaving $5.50 of the gain from the sale to be treated as ordinary income.
(
f
)
Recordkeeping requirements.
In the case of any obligation held by a taxpayer which was issued at an original issue discount after December 31, 1954, the taxpayer shall keep a record of the issue price and issue date upon or with each obligation (if known to or reasonably ascertainable by him). If the obligation held by the taxpayer is an obligation of the United States received from the United States in an exchange upon which gain or loss is not recognized because of section 1037 (a) (or so much of section 1031 (b) or (c) as relates to section 1037(a)), the taxpayer shall keep sufficient records to determine the issue price of such obligation for purposes of applying section 1037(b) and paragraphs (a) and (b) of § 1.1037-1 upon the disposition or redemption of such obligation. The issuer (or in the case of obligations first sold to the public through an underwriter or wholesaler, the underwriter or wholesaler) shall mark the issue price and issue date upon every obligation which is issued at an original issue discount after September 26, 1957, but only if the period between the date of original issue (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section) and the stated maturity date is more than 6 months.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12008, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6984, 33 FR 19176, Dec. 21, 1968; T.D. 7154, 36 FR 25000, Dec. 28, 1971; 37 FR 527, Jan. 13, 1972; T.D. 7213, 37 FR 21992, Oct. 18, 1972; 37 FR 22863, Oct. 26, 1972; T.D. 7663, 44 FR 76782, Dec. 28, 1979; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 1.1232-3A
Inclusion as interest of original issue discount on certain obligations issued after May 27, 1969.
(a)
Ratable inclusion as interest
—(1)
General rule.
Under section 1232(a)(3), the holder of any obligation issued by a corporation after May 27, 1969 (other than an obligation issued by or on behalf of the United States or a foreign country, or a political subdivision of either) shall include as interest in his gross income an amount equal to the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount multiplied by the sum of the number of complete months and any fractional part of a month such holder held the obligation during the taxable year. For increase in basis for amounts included as interest in gross income pursuant to this paragraph, see paragraph (c) of this section. For requirements for reporting original issue discount, see section 6049(a) and the regulations thereunder.
(2)
Ratable monthly portion of original issue discount
—(i)
General rule.
Except when subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph applies, the term
ratable monthly portion of original issue discount
means an amount equal to the original issue discount divided by the sum of the number of complete months (plus any fractional part of a month) beginning on the date of original issue and ending the day before the stated maturity date of such obligation.
(ii)
Reduction for purchase allowance.
With respect to an obligation which has been acquired by purchase (within the meaning of subparagraph (4) of this paragraph), the term
ratable monthly portion of original issue discount
means the lesser of the amount determined under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph or an amount equal to:
(
a
) The excess (if any) of the stated redemption price of the obligation at maturity over its cost to the purchaser divided by
(
b
) The sum of the number of complete months (plus any fractional part of a month) beginning on the date of such purchase and ending the day before the stated maturity date of such obligation.
The amount of the ratable monthly portion within the meaning of this subdivision reflects a purchase allowance provided under section 1232(a)(3)(B) where a purchase is made at a price in excess of the sum of the issue price plus the portion of original issue discount previously includible (regardless of whether included) in the gross income of all previous holders (computed, however, as to such previous holders without regard to any purchase allowance under this subdivision and
without regard to whether any previous holder purchased at a premium).
(iii)
Ratable monthly portion upon carryover to new obligation.
In any case in which there is a carryover of original issue discount under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of § 1.1232-3 from an obligation exchanged to an obligation received in such exchange, the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount in respect of the obligation received shall be computed by dividing the amount of original issue discount carried over by the sum of the number of complete months (plus any fractional part of a month) beginning on the date of the exchange and ending the day before the stated maturity date of the obligation received.
(iv)
Cross references.
For definitions of the terms
original issue discount
and
date of original issue,
see subparagraphs (1) and (3) respectively, of § 1.1232-3(b). For definition of the term
premium,
see paragraph (d)(2) of § 1.1232-3.
(3)
Determination of number of complete months
—(i)
In general.
For purposes of this section:
(
a
) A complete month and a fractional part of a month commence with the date of original issue and the corresponding day of each succeeding calendar month (or the last day of a calendar month in which there is no corresponding day),
(
b
) If an obligation is acquired on any day other than the date a complete month commences, the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount for the complete month in which the acquisition occurs shall be allocated between the transferor and the transferee in accordance with the number of days in such complete month each held the obligation,
(
c
) In determining the allocation under (
b
) of this subdivision, any holder may treat each month as having 30 days,
(
d
) The transferee, and not the transferor, shall be deemed to hold the obligation during the entire day on the date of acquisition, and
(
e
) The obligor will be treated as the transferee on the date of redemption.
(ii)
Example.
The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
On February 22, 1970, A acquires an obligation of X Corporation for which February 1, 1970, is the date of original issue. B acquires the obligation on June 16, 1970. A does not choose to treat each month as having 30 days. Thus, A held the obligation for 3
3/4
months during 1970, i.e., one-fourth of February (
7/28
days), March, April, May, one-half of June (
15/30
days). The ratable monthly portion of original issue discount for the obligation is multiplied by 3
3/4
months to determine the amount included in A's gross income for 1970 pursuant to this paragraph.
(4)
Purchase.
For purposes of this section, the term
purchase
means any acquisition (including an acquisition upon original issue) of an obligation to which this section applies, but only if the basis of such obligation is not determined in whole or in part by reference to the adjusted basis of such obligation in the hands of the person from whom it was acquired or under section 1014(a) (relating to property acquired from a decedent).
(b)
Exceptions
—(1)
Binding commitment.
Section 1232(a)(3) shall not apply to any obligation issued pursuant to a written commitment which was binding on May 27, 1969, and at all times thereafter.
(2)
Exception for 1-year obligations.
Section 1232(a)(3) shall not apply to any obligation in respect of which the period between the date of original issue (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of § 1.1232-3) and the stated maturity date is 1 year or less. In such case, gain on the sale or exchange of such obligation shall be included in gross income as interest to the extent the gain does not exceed an amount equal to the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount multiplied by the sum of the number of complete months and any fractional part of a month such taxpayer held such obligation.
(3)
Purchase at a premium.
Section 1232(a)(3) shall not apply to any holder who purchased the obligation at a premium (within the meaning of paragraph (d)(2) of § 1.1232-3).
(4)
Life insurance companies.
Section 1232(a)(3) shall not apply to any holder which is a life insurance company to which section 818(b) applies. However, ratable inclusion of original issue discount as interest under section 1232(a)(3) is required by an insurance
company which is subject to the tax imposed by section 821 or 831.
(c)
Basis adjustment.
The basis of an obligation in the hands of the holder thereof shall be increased by any amount of original issue discount with respect thereto included as interest in his gross income pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. See section 1232(a)(3)(E). However, the basis of an obligation shall not be increased by any amount that was includible as interest in gross income under paragraph (a) of this section, but was not actually included by the holder in his gross income.
(d)
Examples.
The provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On January 1, 1970, A, a calendar-year taxpayer, purchases at original issue, for cash of $7,600, M Corporation's 10-year, 5-percent bond which has a stated redemption price of $10,000. The ratable monthly portion of original issue discount, as determined under section 1232(a)(3) and this section, to be included as interest in A's gross income for each month he holds such bond is $20, computed as follows:
Original issue discount (stated redemption price, $10,000, minus issue price, $7,600)
$2,400
Divide by: Number of months from date of original issue to stated maturity date
120
months
Ratable monthly portion
$20
Assume that A holds the bond for all of 1970 and 1971 and includes as interest in his gross income for each such year an amount equal to the ratable monthly portion, $20, multiplied by the number of months he held the bond each such year, 12 months, or $240. Accordingly, on January 1, 1972, A's basis in the bond will have increased under paragraph (c) of this section by the amount so included, $480 (i.e., $240 × 2), from his cost, $7,600, to $8,080. For results if A sells the bond on that date, see examples (1) and (2) of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1282-3.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1). Assume further that on January 1, 1972, A sells the bond to B, a calendar-year taxpayer for $9,040.
Since B purchased the bond, he determines under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the amount of the ratable monthly portion he must include as interest in his gross income in order to reflect the amount of his purchase allowance (if any). B determines that his ratable monthly portion is $10, computed as follows:
(1) Stated redemption price at maturity
$10,000
(2) Minus: B's cost
$9,040
(3) Excess
$960
(4) Divide by: Number of months from date of purchase to stated maturity date
96
months
(5) Tentative ratable monthly portion
$10
(6) Ratable monthly portion as computed in example (1)
$20
Since line (5) is lower than line (6), B's ratable monthly portion is $10. Accordingly, if B holds the bond for all of 1972, he must include $120 (i.e., ratable monthly portion, $10 × 12 months) as interest in his gross income.

# Example 3.
(1) Assume the same facts as in example (1). Assume further that on January 1, 1975, A sells the bond to B for $10,150. Under the exception of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, B is not required to include any amount in respect of original issue discount as interest in his gross income since he has purchased the bond at a premium.
(2) On January 1, 1979, B sells the bond to C, a calendar-year taxpayer, for $9,940. Since C is now the holder of the bond (and no exception applies to him), he must include as interest in his gross income the ratable monthly portion of original issue determined under section 1232(a)(3) and this section. Since C purchased the bond he determines under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section the amount of the ratable monthly portion he must include as interest in his gross income in order to reflect the amount of his purchase allowance (if any). C determines that his ratable monthly portion is $5, computed as follows:
(1) Stated redemption price at maturity
$10,000
(2) Minus: C's cost
$9,940
(3) Excess
$60
(4) Divide by: Number of months from date of purchase to stated maturity date
12
months
(5) Tentative ratable monthly portion
$5
(6) Ratable monthly portion as computed in example (1)
$20
Since line (5) is lower than line (6), C's ratable monthly portion is $5. Accordingly, if C holds the bond for all of 1979, he must include $60 (i.e., ratable monthly portion, $5, × 12 months) as interest in his gross income. Upon maturity of the bond on January 1, 1980, C will receive $10,000 from M, which under paragraph (c) of this section will equal his adjusted basis (the sum of his cost, $9,940, plus original issue discount included as interest in his gross income, $60).

# Example 4.
On January 1, 1968, D, a calendar-year taxpayer, purchases at original issue, for cash of $8,000, P Corporation's 20-
year, 6 percent bond which has a stated redemption price of $10,000 and which will mature on January 1, 1988. The original issue discount with respect to such bond is $2,000. However, the ratable inclusion rules of section 1232(a)(3) do not apply to D, since the bond was issued by P before May 28, 1969. On January 1, 1973, pursuant to a plan of reorganization as defined in section 368(a)(1)(E), and in which no gain or loss is recognized by D under section 354, D's 20-year bond is exchanged for a 10-year, 6 percent bond which also has a stated redemption price of $10,000 but will mature on January 1, 1983. Under paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of § 1.1232-3, the $2,000 of original issue discount is carried over to the new 10-year bond received in such exchange. Since the new bond is an obligation issued after May 27, 1969, D is required to begin ratable inclusion of the $2,000 of discount as interest in his gross income for 1973. The ratable monthly portion of original issue discount, as determined under section 1232(a)(3) to be included as interest in gross income is computed as follows:
Amount of original issue discount carried over
$2,000
Divide by: Number of complete months beginning on January 1, 1973, and ending on December 31, 1982
120
months
Ratable monthly portion
$16.67
(e)
Application of section 1232 to certain deposits in financial institutions and similar arrangements
—(1)
In general.
Under paragraph (d) of § 1.1232-1, the term
other evidence of indebtedness
includes certificates of deposit, time deposits, bonus plans, and other deposit arrangements with banks, domestic building and loan associations, and similar financial institutions.
(2)
Adjustments where obligation redeemed before maturity
—(i)
In general.
If an obligation described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph is redeemed for a price less than the stated redemption price at maturity from a taxpayer who acquired the obligation upon original issue, such taxpayer shall be allowed as a deduction, in computing adjusted gross income, the amount of the original issue discount he included in gross income but did not receive (as determined under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph). The taxpayer's basis of such obligation (determined after any increase in basis for the taxable year under section 1232(a)(3)(E) by the amount of original issue discount included in the holder's gross income under section 1232(a)(3)) shall be decreased by the amount of such adjustment.
(ii)
Computation.
The amount of the adjustment under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph shall be an amount equal to the excess (if any) of (
a
) the ratable monthly portion of the original issue discount included in the holder's gross income under section 1232(a)(3) for the period he held the obligation, over (
b
) the excess (if any) of the amount received upon the redemption over the issue price. Under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(
a
) of § 1.1232-3, if any amount based on a fixed rate of simple or compound interest is actually payable or will be treated as constructively received under section 451 and the regulations thereunder at fixed periodic intervals of 1 year or less during the term of the obligation, any such amount payable upon redemption shall not be included in determining the amount received upon such redemption.
(iii)
Partial redemption. (a)
In the case of an obligation (other than a single obligation having serial maturity dates), if a portion of the obligation is redeemed prior to the stated maturity date of the entire obligation, the provisions of this subdivision shall be applied and not the provisions of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. In such case, the adjusted basis of the unredeemed portion of the obligation on the date of the partial redemption shall be an amount equal to the adjusted basis of the entire obligation on that date minus the amount paid upon the redemption.
(
b
) If the adjusted basis of the unredeemed portion (as computed under (
a
) of this subdivision) is equal to or in excess of the amount to be received for the unredeemed portion at maturity, no gain or loss shall be recognized at the time of the partial redemption but the holder shall be allowed a deduction, in computing adjusted gross income for the taxable year during which such partial redemption occurs, equal to the amount of such excess (if any), and no further original issue discount will be includible in the holder's gross income under section 1232(a)(3) over the remaining term of the unredeemed portion. In such case, the holder shall decrease his
basis in the unredeemed portion (as computed under (a) of this subdivision) by the amount of such adjustment.
(
c
) If the adjusted basis of the unredeemed portion (as computed under (
a
) of this subdivision) is less than the redemption price of the unredeemed portion at maturity, a new computation shall be made under paragraph (a) of this section (without regard to the exception for one-year obligations in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) of the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount to be included as interest in the gross income of the holder over the remaining term of the unredeemed portion. For purposes of such computation, the adjusted basis of the unredeemed portion shall be treated as the issue price, the date of the partial redemption shall be treated as the issue date, and the amount to be paid for the unredeemed portion at maturity shall be treated as the stated redemption price.
(3)
Examples.
The application of section 1232 to obligations to which this paragraph applies may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A is a cash method taxpayer who uses the calendar year as his taxable year. On January 1, 1971, he purchases a certificate of deposit from X Bank, a corporation, for $10,000. The certificate of deposit is not redeemable until December 31, 1975, except in an emergency as defined in, and subject to the qualifications provided by, Regulation Q of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. See 12 CFR 217.4(d). The stated redemption price at maturity is $13,382.26. The terms of the certificate do not expressly refer to any amount as interest. A's certificate of deposit is an obligation to which section 1232 and this paragraph apply. A shall include the ratable portion of original issue discount in gross income for 1971 as determined under section 1232(a)(3). Thus, if A holds the certificate of deposit for the full calendar year 1971, the amount to be included in A's gross income for 1971 is $676.45, that is,
12/60
months, multiplied by the excess of the stated redemption price ($13,382.26) over the issue price ($10,000).

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that the certificate of deposit provides for payment upon redemption at December 31, 1975, of an amount equal to “$10,000, plus 6 percent compound interest from January 1, 1971, to December 31, 1975.” Thus, the total amount payable upon redemption in both example (1) and this example is $13,382.26. The certificate of deposit is an obligation to which section 1232 and this paragraph apply and, since the substance of the deposit arrangement is identical to that contained in example (1), A must include the same amount in gross income.

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that the certificate provides for the payment of interest in the amount of $200 on December 31, of each year and $2,000 plus $10,000 (the original amount) payable upon redemption at December 31, 1975. Thus, if A holds the certificate of deposit for the full calendar year 1971, A must include in his gross income for 1971 the $200 interest payable on December 31, 1971, and $400 of original issue discount, that is,
12/60
months multiplied by the excess of the stated redemption price ($12,000) over the issue price ($10,000).

# Example 4.
B is a cash method taxpayer who uses the calendar year as his taxable year. On January 1, 1971, B purchases a 4-year savings certificate from the Y Building and Loan Corporation for $4,000, redeemable on December 31, 1974, for $5,000. On December 31, 1973, Y redeems the certificate for $4,660. Under section 1232(a)(3), B included $250 of original issue discount in his gross income for 1971, $250 for 1972, and includes $250 in his gross income for 1973 for a total of $750. Since the excess of (i) the amount received upon the redemption, $4,660, over (ii) the issue price, $4,000, or $660, is lower than the total amount of original issue discount ($750) included in B's gross income for the period he held the certificate by $90, the $90 will be treated under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph as a deduction in computing adjusted gross income, and accordingly, will decrease the basis of his certificate by such amount. B has no gain or loss upon the redemption, as determined in accordance with the following computation:
Adjusted basis January 1, 1973
$4,500
Increase under section 1232(a)(3)(E)
250
Subtotal
4,750
Decrease under subparagraph (b)(2) of this paragraph
90
Basis upon redemption
4,660
Amount realized upon redemption
4,660
Gain or loss
0

# Example 5.
On January 1, 1971, C, a cash method taxpayer who uses the calendar year as his taxable year, opens a savings account in Z bank with a $10,000 deposit. Under the terms of the account, interest is made available semiannually at 6 percent annual interest, compounded semiannually. Since all of the interest on C's account in Z Bank is made available semiannually, the stated redemption price at maturity under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(
a
) of § 1.1232-3 equals the issue price, and, therefore, no original issue discount is reportable by C under section 1232(a)(3). However, C must include the sum
of $300 (i.e.,
1/2
× 6% × $10,000) plus $309 (i.e.,
1/2
× 6% × $10,300) or $609, of interest made available during 1971 in his gross income for 1971.

# Example 6.
(i) D is a cash method taxpayer who uses the calendar year as his taxable year. On January 1, 1971, D purchases a $10,000 deferred income certificate from M Bank. Under the terms of the certificate, interest accrues at 6 percent per annum, compounded quarterly. The period of the account is 10 years. In addition, the holder is permitted to withdraw the entire amount of the purchase price at any time (but not interest prior to the expiration of the 10 year term), and upon such a withdrawal of the purchase price, no further interest accrues. If the certificate is held to maturity, the issue price plus accrued interest will aggregate $18,140.18.
(ii) In respect of the certificate, the original issue discount is $8,140.18, determined by subtracting the issue price of the certificate ($10,000) from the stated redemption price at maturity ($18,140.18). Thus, under section 1232(a)(3) the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount is $67.835 (i.e.,
1/20
months, multiplied by $8,140.18). Under section 1232(a)(3), D includes $814.02 (i.e., 12 months, multiplied by $67.835) in his gross income for each calendar year the certificate remains outstanding and under section 1232(a)(3)(E) increases his basis by that amount. Thus, on December 31, 1975, D's basis for the certificate is $14,070.10 (i.e., issue price, $10,000, increased by product of $814.02 × 5 years).
(iii) On December 31, 1975, D withdraws the $10,000. Under the terms of the certificate $3,468.55 cannot be withdrawn until December 31, 1980. Under the provisions of subparagraph (2)(iii) of this paragraph, the $10,000 partial redemption shall be treated as follows:
(1) Adjusted basis of obligation at time of partial redemption
$14,070.10
(2) Amount paid upon redemption
10,000.00
(3) Adjusted basis of unredeemed portion (line (1) less line (2))
4,070.10
(4) Amount to be paid for unredeemed portion at maturity (December 31, 1980)
3,468.55
(5) Adjustment in computing adjusted gross income (excess of line (3) over line (4))
601.55
Since the adjusted basis of the unredeemed portion exceeds the amount to be received for the unredeemed portion at maturity, D is allowed a deduction, in computing adjusted gross income, of $601.25 in 1975 and no further original issue discount is includible as interest in his gross income. In addition, D will decrease his basis in the unredeemed portion by $601.55, the amount of such adjustment, from $4,070.10 to $3,468.55.

# Example 7.
E is a cash method taxpayer who uses the calendar year as his taxable year. On January 1, 1971, E purchases a $10,000 “Bonus Savings Certificate” from N Building and Loan Corporation. Under the terms of the certificate, interest is payable at 5 percent per annum, compounded quarterly, and the period of the account is 3 years. In addition, the certificate provides that if the holder makes no withdrawals of principal or interest during the term of the certificate, a bonus payment equal to 5 percent of the purchase price of the certificate will be paid to the holder of the certificate at maturity. Thus, the amount of the bonus payment is $500 (i.e., 5 percent multiplied by $10,000). Since the 5 percent annual interest is payable quarterly, the amount of such interest is not included in determining the stated redemption price at maturity under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of § 1.1232-3. However, since the bonus payment is only payable at maturity, the amount of such bonus is included as part of the stated redemption price at maturity. Thus, the stated redemption price at maturity equals $10,500 (purchase price, $10,000, plus bonus payment $500). Accordingly, the original issue discount attributable to such certificate equals $500 (stated redemption price at maturity. $10,500, minus issue price, $10,000). Therefore, E must include as interest $166.67 (i.e.,
12/36
months, multiplied by the original issue discount, $500) in his gross income for each taxable year he holds the certificate.
(4)
Renewable certificates of deposit
—(i)
In general.
The renewal of a certificate of deposit shall be treated as a purchase of the certificate on the date the renewal period begins regardless of any requirement pursuant to the terms of the certificate that the holder give notice of an intention to renew or not to renew. Thus, for example, in the case of a certificate of deposit for which a renewal period begins after December 31, 1970, such renewal shall be treated as a purchase after such date whether or not the initial period began before such date.
(ii)
Computation.
For purposes of computing the amount of original issue discount to be ratably included as interest in gross income under section 1232(a)(3) in respect of a renewable certificate of deposit for the initial period or any renewal period, the following rules apply:
(
a
) The issue price on the date any renewal period begins is considered to be in the case of a certificate of deposit initially purchased:
(
1
) After December 31, 1970, the adjusted basis of the certificate on the date such period begins,
(
2
) Before January 1, 1971, the amount the adjusted basis would have been on the date such period begins had the holder included all amounts of original issue discount as interest in gross income that would have been includible if section 1232(a)(3) had applied to the certificate from the date of original purchase.
Thus, if under the terms of the certificate, no amount is forfeited upon a failure to renew, then the issue price on the date any renewal period begins is considered to be the amount which would have been received by the holder on such date had it not been renewed.
(
b
) The date of original issue for any renewal period shall be considered to be the date it begins.
(
c
) The date of maturity for the initial period or any renewal period shall be considered to be the date it ends.
(
d
) The stated redemption price at maturity for the initial period or any renewal period shall be considered to be the maximum amount which would be received at the end of any such period, without regard to any reduction resulting from withdrawal prior to maturity or failure to renew at any renewal date.
(iii)
Application of 1-year rule.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section (relating to nonapplication of section 1232(a)(3) to any obligation having a term of 1 year or less), the period between the date of original issue (as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of § 1.1232-3) of a renewable certificate of deposit and its stated maturity date shall include all renewal periods with respect to which, under the terms of the certificate, the holder may either take action or refrain from taking action which would prevent the actual or constructive receipt of any interest on such certificate until the expiration of any such renewal period whether or not the original date of issue is prior to January 1, 1971.
(iv)
Example.
The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
(a) On May 1, 1969, A purchases a 2-year renewable certificate of deposit from M bank, a corporation, for $10,000. Interest will be compounded semiannually at 6 percent on May 1 and November 1. The terms of the certificate provide that such certificate will be automatically renewed on the anniversary date every 2 years if the holder does not notify M of an intention not to renew prior to 60 days before the particular anniversary date. Thus, on May 1, 1971, and May 1, 1973, the certificate may be redeemed for $11,255.09 and $12,667.60, respectively. However, in no event shall the initial period and the renewal periods exceed 10 years. A does not notify M of an intention not to renew by March 1, 1971, and the certificate is automatically renewed for an additional 2-year period on May 1, 1971.
(b) Under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, the May 1, 1971, renewal shall be treated as the purchase of a certificate of deposit on that date, i.e., after December 31, 1970. Under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, the issue price is considered to be $11,255.09 and the date of maturity is considered to be May 1, 1973. Since the stated redemption price at maturity is $12,667.60. A must include $58.85 as interest in gross income for each month he holds the certificate during the renewal period beginning May 1, 1971, computed as follows:
Original issue discount (stated redemption price, $12,667.60, minus issue price, $11,255.09)
$1,412.51
Divided by: Number of months from renewal to maturity date
24 months
Ratable monthly portion
$58.85
(5)
Time deposit open account arrangements
—(i)
In general.
The term
time deposit open account arrangement
means an arrangement with a fixed maturity date where deposits may be made from time to time and ordinarily no interest will be paid or constructively received until such fixed maturity date. All deposits pursuant to such an arrangement constitute parts of a single obligation. The amount of original issue discount to be ratably included as interest in the gross income of the depositor for any taxable year shall be the sum of the amounts separately computed for each deposit. For this purpose, the issue price for a deposit is the amount thereof and the stated redemption price at maturity is computed under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(
d
) of § 1.1232-3.
(ii)
Obligations redeemed before maturity.
In the event of a partial redemption of a time deposit open account before maturity, the following rules, in addition to subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, shall apply:
(
a
) If, pursuant to the terms of the withdrawal, the amount received by the depositor is determined with reference to the principal amount of a specific deposit and interest earned from the date of such deposit, then such terms shall control for the purpose of determining which deposit was withdrawn.
(
b
) If (
a
) of this subdivision (ii) does not apply, then the withdrawal shall be deemed to be of specific deposits together with interest earned from the date of such deposits, on a first-in, first-out basis.
(iii)
Examples.
The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
(i) F is a cash method taxpayer who uses the calendar year as his taxable year. On December 1, 1970, F enters into a 5-year deposit open account arrangement with M Savings and Loan Corp. The terms of the arrangement provide that F will deposit $100 each month for a period of 5 years, and that interest will be compounded semiannually (on June 1 and December 1) at 6 percent, but will be paid only at maturity. Thus, assuming F makes deposits of $100 on the first of each month beginning with December 1, 1970, the account will have a stated redemption price of $6,998.20 at maturity on December 1, 1975. Since, however, section 1232 applies only to deposits made after December 31, 1970 (see paragraph (d) of § 1.1232-1), the $34.39 of compound interest to be earned on the first deposit of $100 over the term of the arrangement will not be subject to the ratable inclusion rules of section 1232(a)(3). F must include such $34.39 of interest in his gross income on December 1, 1975, the date it is paid.
(ii) For 1971, F must include $44.19 of original issue discount as interest in gross income, to be computed as follows:
(1)
Date of $100 deposit
(2)
Months to maturity
(3)
Redemption price at
maturity
(4)
Original issue discount (Col.3−$100)
(5)
Ratable monthly portion (Col.4 ÷ Col.2)
(6)
Months on deposit in 1971
(7)
1971 original issue discount (Col.5 × Col.6)
1-1-71
59
$133.73
$33.73
$0.5717
12
$6.86
2-1-71
58
133.07
33.07
.5702
11
6.27
3-1-71
57
132.42
32.42
.5688
10
5.69
4-1-71
56
131.77
31.77
.5673
9
5.11
5-1-71
55
131.12
31.12
.5658
8
4.53
6-1-71
54
130.48
30.48
.5644
7
3.95
7-1-71
53
129.84
29.84
.5630
6
3.38
8-1-71
52
129.20
29.20
.5615
5
2.81
9-1-71
51
128.56
28.56
.5600
4
2.24
10-1-71
50
127.93
27.93
.5586
3
1.68
11-1-71
49
127.30
27.30
.5571
2
1.11
12-1-71
48
126.68
26.68
.5558
1
0.56
Total original issue discount to be included as interest in F's gross income for 1971
44.19

# Example 2.
(i) G is a cash method taxpayer who uses the calendar year as his taxable year. On February 1, 1971, G enters into a 4-year deposit open account arrangement with T Bank, a corporation. The terms of the deposit arrangement provide that G may deposit any amount from time to time in multiples of $50 for a period of 4 years. The terms also provide that G may not redeem any amount until February 1, 1975, except in an emergency as defined in, and subject to the qualifications provided by, Regulation Q of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. See 12 CFR 217.4(d). Interest will be compounded semiannually (on February 1 and August 1) at 6 percent, providing there is no redemption prior to February 1, 1975. However, if there is a redemption prior to such date, interest will be compounded semiannually at 5
1/2
percent.
(ii) The schedule of deposits made by G pursuant to the arrangement, and computation of ratable monthly portion for each deposit, is set forth in the table below:
(1)
Date of deposit
(2)
Months to maturity
(3)
Amount of deposit
(4)
Redemption price at
maturity
(5)
Original issue discount (Col.4−Col.3)
(6)
Ratable monthly portion (Col.5 ÷ Col.2)
2-1-71
48
100
$126.68
$26.68
0.5558
6-1-71
44
200
248.42
48.42
1.1005
12-1-71
38
500
602.95
102.95
2.7092
2-1-72
36
800
955.24
155.24
4.3122
3-1-72
35
800
950.56
150.56
4.3017
7-1-72
31
600
699.00
99.00
3.1935
8-1-72
30
250
289.82
39.82
1.3273
(iii) With respect to amounts on deposit pursuant to the arrangement, the amounts of original issue discount G must include as interest in his gross income for 1971 and 1972 are computed in the table below:
(1)
Date of deposit
(2)
Ratable
monthly
portion
(3)
Months on deposit in 1971
(4)
1971 original issue discount (Col.2 × Col.3)
(5)
Months on deposit in 1972
(6)
1972 original issue discount (Col.2 × Col.5)
2-1-71
$0.5558
11
$6.11
12
$6.67
6-1-71
1.1005
7
7.70
12
13.21
12-1-71
2.7092
1
2.71
12
32.51
2-1-72
4.3122
11
47.43
3-1-72
4.3017
10
43.02
7-1-72
3.1935
6
19.16
8-1-72
1.3273
5
6.64
Total original issue discount includible as interest in gross income for taxable year
16.52
168.64
(6)
Certain contingent interest arrangement
—(i)
In general.
If under the terms of a deposit arrangement:
(
a
) The holder cannot receive payment of any interest or constructively receive any interest prior to a fixed maturity date,
(
b
) Interest is earned at a guaranteed minimum rate of compound interest,
(
c
) Additional contingent interest may be earned for any year at a rate not to exceed one percentage point above such guaranteed minimum rate, and
(
d
) Any additional contingent interest is credited at least annually to the depositor's account,
Then any contingent interest credited to the depositor shall be treated as creating a separate obligation subject to the rules of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.
(ii)
Computation.
For purposes of computing the original issue discount to be included as interest in the depositor's gross income under section 1232(a)(3) with respect to such separate obligation:
(
a
) The issue price shall be zero,
(
b
) The date of original issue shall be the date on which the contingent interest is credited to the depositor's account and begins to earn interest,
(
c
) The date of maturity shall be the fixed maturity date of the deposit, and
(
d
) The stated redemption price at maturity is the sum of the amount of such contingent interest plus any interest to be earned thereon at the guaranteed minimum rate of compound interest between such dates of original issue and maturity.
(7)
Contingent interest arrangements other than those described in subparagraph (6)
—(i)
In general.
If under the terms of a deposit arrangement, contingent interest may be earned and credited to a depositor's account, but is neither actually or constructively received before a fixed maturity date nor treated under subparagraph (6)(i) of this paragraph as creating a separate obligation, then the redemption price shall include the amount which would be credited to such account assuming the issuer, during the term of such account, credits contingent interest at the greater of the rate:
(
a
) Last credited on a similar account, or
(
b
) Equal to the average rate credited for the preceding 5 calendar years on a similar account.
(ii)
Adjustments for additional interest.
The rate taken into account under this
subparagraph in computing the redemption price shall be treated as the guaranteed minimum rate for purposes of applying subparagraph (6) of this paragraph in the event the rate at which contingent interest is actually credited to the depositor's account exceeds such rate previously taken into account. If for any period the actual rate at which contingent interest is credited to the account exceeds by more than 1 percentage point the rate for the previous period taken into account under this subparagraph in computing the redemption price, a new computation shall be made to determine the ratable monthly portion of original issue discount to be included as interest in the gross income of the depositor over the remaining term of the account. For purposes of such computation, the date that interest is first so credited to the account shall be treated as the issue date, the adjusted basis of the account on such date shall be the issue price, and the redemption price shall equal the amount actually on deposit in the account on such date plus the amount which would be credited to such account assuming the issuer, during the remaining term of such account, continues to credit contingent interest at the new rate.
(iii)
Adjustment for reduced interest.
If for any period the actual rate of interest at which contingent interest is credited to the depositor's account is less than the rate for the previous period taken into account under this subparagraph in computing the redemption price, the difference between the amount of interest which would have been credited to the account at the rate for such previous period and the amount actually credited shall be allowed as a deduction against the amount of original issue discount with respect to such account required to be included in the gross income of the depositor. If an account is redeemed for a price less than the adjusted basis of the account, the depositor shall be allowed as a deduction, in computing adjusted gross income, the amount of the original issue discount he included in gross income but did not receive.
(f)
Application of section 1232(a)(3) to face-amount certificates
—(1)
In general.
Under paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.1232-1, the provisions of section 1232(a)(3) and this section apply in the case of a face-amount certificate issued after December 31, 1975 (other than such a certificate issued pursuant to a written commitment which was binding on such date and at all times thereafter).
(2)
Relationship with paragraph (e) of this section.
Determinations with regard to the inclusion as interest of original issue discount on, and certain adjustments with respect to, face-amount certificates to which this section applies shall be made in a manner consistent with the rules of paragraph (e) of this section (relating to the application of section 1232 to certain deposits in financial institutions and similar arrangements). Thus, for example, if a face-amount certificate is redeemed before maturity, the holder shall be allowed a deduction in computing adjusted gross income computed in a manner consistent with the rules of paragraph (e)(2) of this section. For a further example, if under the terms of a face-amount certificate, the issuer may grant additional credits to be paid at a fixed maturity date, computations with respect to such additional credits shall be made in a manner consistent with the rules of paragraphs (e) (6) and (7) of this section (as applicable) relating to contingent interest arrangements.
[T.D. 7154, 36 FR 25005, Dec. 28, 1971; 37 FR 527, Jan. 13, 1972, as amended by T.D. 7213, 37 FR 21993, Oct. 18, 1972; 37 FR 22863, Oct. 26, 1972; T.D. 7311, 39 FR 11880, Apr. 1, 1974; T.D. 7365, 40 FR 27936, July 2, 1975]
§ 1.1233-1
Gains and losses from short sales.
(a)
General.
(1) For income tax purposes, a short sale is not deemed to be consummated until delivery of property to close the short sale. Whether the recognized gain or loss from a short sale is capital gain or loss or ordinary gain or loss depends upon whether the property so delivered constitutes a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer.
(2) Thus, if a dealer in securities makes a short sale of X Corporation stock, ordinary gain or loss results on closing of the short sale if the stock used to close the short sale was stock which he held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his
trade or business. If the stock used to close the short sale was a capital asset in his hands, or if the taxpayer in this example was not a dealer, a capital gain or loss would result.
(3) Generally, the period for which a taxpayer holds property delivered to close a short sale determines whether long-term or short-term capital gain or loss results.
(4) Thus, if a taxpayer makes a short sale of shares of stock and covers the short sale by purchasing and delivering shares which he held for not more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), the recognized gain or loss would be considered short-term capital gain or loss. If the short sale is made through a broker and the broker borrows property to make a delivery, the short sale is not deemed to be consummated until the obligation of the seller created by the short sale is finally discharged by delivery of property to the broker to replace the property borrowed by the broker.
(5) For rules for determining the date of sale for purposes of applying under section 1091 the 61-day period applicable to a short sale of stock or securities at a loss, see paragraph (g) of § 1.1091-1.
(b)
Hedging transactions.
Under section 1233(g), the provisions of section 1233 and this section shall not apply to any bona fide hedging transaction in commodity futures entered into by flour millers, producers of cloth, operators of grain elevators, etc., for the purpose of their business. Gain or loss from a short sale of commodity futures which does not qualify as a hedging transaction shall be considered gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset if the commodity future used to close the short sale constitutes a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer as explained in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Special short sales
—(1)
General.
Section 1233 provides rules as to the tax consequences of a short sale of property if gain or loss from the short sale is considered as gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset under section 1233(a) and paragraph (a) of this section and if, at the time of the short sale or on or before the date of the closing of the short sale, the taxpayer holds property substantially identical to that sold short. The term
property
is defined for purposes of such rules to include only stocks and securities (including stocks and securities dealt with on a
when issued
basis) and commodity futures, which are capital assets in the hands of the taxpayer. Certain restrictions on the application of the section to commodity futures are provided in section 1233(e) and paragraph (d)(2) of this section. Section 1233(f) contains special provisions governing the operation of rule (2) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph in the case of a purchase and short sale of stock (as defined in subparagraph (3) qualifying as an arbitrage operation. See paragraph (f) of this section for detailed rules relating to arbitrage operations in stocks and securities.
(2)
Treatment of special short sales.
The first two rules, which are set forth in section 1233(b), are applicable whenever property substantially identical to that sold short has been held by the taxpayer on the date of the short sale for not more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) (determined without regard to rule (2), contained in this subparagraph, relating to the holding period) or is acquired by him after the short sale and on or before the date of the closing thereof. These rules are:
Rule (1).
Any gain upon the closing of such short sale shall be considered as a gain upon the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for not more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) (notwithstanding the period of time any property used to close such short sale has been held); and
Rule (2).
The holding period of such substantially identical property shall be considered to begin (notwithstanding the provisions of section 1223) on the date of the closing of such short sale or on the date of a sale, gift, or other disposition of such property, whichever date occurs first.
(3)
Options to sell.
For the purpose of rule (1) and rule (2) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the acquisition of an option to sell property at a fixed price shall be considered a short sale, and the exercise or failure to exercise such option shall be considered as a closing
of such short sale, except that any option to sell property at a fixed price acquired on or after August 17, 1954 (the day after enactment of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954), shall not be considered a short sale and the exercise or failure to exercise such option shall not be considered as the closing of a short sale provided that the option and property identified as intended to be used in its exercise are acquired on the same date. This exception shall not apply, if the option is exercised, unless it is exercised by the sale of the property so identified. In the case of any option not exercised which falls within this exception, the cost of such option shall be added to the basis of the property with which such option is identified. If the option itself does not specifically identify the property intended to be used in exercising the option, then the identification of such property shall be made by appropriate entries in the taxpayer's records within 15 days after the date such property is acquired or before November 17, 1956, whichever expiration date later occurs.
(4)
Treatment of losses.
The third rule, which is set forth in section 1233(d), is applicable whenever property substantially identical to that sold short has been held by the taxpayer on the date of the short sale for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977). This rule is:
Rule (3).
Any loss upon the closing of such short sale shall be considered as a loss upon the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), not withstanding the period of time any property used to close such short sale has been held. For the purpose of this rule, the acquisition of an option to sell property at a fixed price is not considered a short sale, and the exercise or failure to exercise such option is not considered as a closing of a short sale.
(5)
Application of rules.
Rules (1) and (3) contained in subparagraphs (2) and (4) of this paragraph do not apply to the gain or loss attributable to so much of the property sold short as exceeds in quantity the substantially identical property referred to in section 1233 (b) and (d), respectively. Except as otherwise provided in section 1233(f), rule (2) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph applies to the substantially identical property referred to in section 1233(b) in the order of the dates of the acquisition of such property, but only to so much of such property as does not exceed the quantity sold short. If property substantially identical to that sold short has been held by the taxpayer on the date of the short sale for not more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), or is acquired by him after the short sale and on or before the date of the closing thereof, and if property substantially identical to that sold short has been held by the taxpayer on the date of the short sale for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), all three rules are applicable.
(6)
Examples.
The following examples illustrate the application of these rules to short sales of stock in the case of a taxpayer who makes his return on the basis of the calendar year:

# Example 1.
A buys 100 shares of X stock at $10 per share on February 1, 1955, sells short 100 shares of X stock at $16 per share on July 1, 1955, and closes the short sale on August 2, 1955, by delivering the 100 shares of X stock purchased on February 1, 1955, to the lender of the stock used to effect the short sale. Since 100 shares of X stock had been held by A on the date of the short sale for not more than 6 months, the gain of $600 realized upon the closing of the short sale is, by application of rule (1) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, a short-term capital gain.

# Example 2.
A buys 100 shares of X stock at $10 per share on February 1, 1955, sells short 100 shares of X stock at $16 per share on July 1, 1955, closes the short sale on August 1, 1955, with 100 shares of X stock purchased on that date at $18 per share, and on August 2, 1955, sells at $18 per share the 100 shares of X stock purchased on February 1, 1955. The $200 loss sustained upon the closing of the short sale is a short-term capital loss to which section 1233(d) has no application. By application of rule (2) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, however, the holding period of the 100 shares of X stock purchased on February 1, 1955, and sold on August 2, 1955 is considered to begin on August 1, 1955, the date of the closing of the short sale. The $800 gain realized upon the sale of such stock is, therefore, a short-term capital gain.

# Example 3.
A buys 100 shares of X stock at $10 per share on February 1, 1955, sells short 100 shares of X stock at $16 per share on September 1, 1955, sells on October 1, 1955, at $18
per share the 100 shares of X stock purchased on February 1, 1955, and closes the short sale on October 1, 1955, with 100 shares of X stock purchased on that date at $18 per share. The $800 gain realized upon the sale of the 100 shares of X stock purchased on February 1, 1955, is a long-term capital gain to which section 1233(b) has no application. Since A had held 100 shares of X stock on the date of the short sale for more than 6 months, the $200 loss sustained upon the closing of the short sale is, by application of rule (3) in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph, a long-term capital loss. If, instead of purchasing 100 shares of X stock on October 1, 1955, A closed the short sale with the 100 shares of stock purchased on February 1, 1955, the $600 gain realized on the closing of the short sale would be a long-term capital gain to which section 1233(b) has no application.

# Example 4.
A sells short 100 shares of X stock at $16 per share on February 1, 1955. He buys 250 shares of X stock on March 1, 1955, at $10 per share and holds the latter stock until September 2, 1955 (more than 6 months), at which time, 100 shares of the 250 shares of X stock are delivered to close the short sale made on February 1, 1955. Since substantially identical property was acquired by A after the short sale and before it was closed, the $600 gain realized on the closing of the short sale is, by application of rule (1) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, a short-term capital gain. The holding period of the remaining 150 shares of X stock is not affected by section 1233 since this amount of the substantially identical property exceeds the quantity of the property sold short.

# Example 5.
A buys 100 shares of X stock at $10 per share on February 1, 1955, buys an additional 100 shares of X stock at $20 per share on July 1, 1955, sells short 100 shares of X stock at $30 per share on September 1, 1955, and closes the short sale on February 1, 1956, by delivering the 100 shares of X stock purchased on February 1, 1955, to the lender of the stock used to effect the short sale. Since 100 shares of X stock had been held by A on the date of the short sale for not more than 6 months, the gain of $2,000 realized upon the closing of the short sale is, by application of rule (1) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, a short-term capital gain and the holding period of the 100 shares of X stock purchased on July 1, 1955, is considered, by application of rule (2) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph to begin on February 1, 1956, the date of the closing of the short sale. If, however, the 100 shares of X stock purchased on July 1, 1955, had been used by A to close the short sale, then, since 100 shares of X stock had been held by A on the date of the short sale for not more than 6 months, the gain of $1,000 realized upon the closing of the short sale would be, by application of rule (1) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, a short-term capital gain, but the holding period of the 100 shares of X stock purchased on February 1, 1955, would not be affected by section 1233. If, on the other hand, A purchased an additional 100 shares of X stock at $40 per share on February 1, 1956, and used such shares to close the short sale at that time, then, since 100 shares of X stock had been held by A on the date of the short sale for more than 6 months, the loss of $1,000 sustained upon the closing of the short sale would be, by application of rule (3) in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph, a long-term capital loss, and since 100 shares of X stock had been held by A on the date of the short sale for not more than 6 months, the holding period of the 100 shares of X stock purchased on July 1, 1955, would be considered, by application of rule (2) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, to begin on February 1, 1956, but the holding period of the 100 shares of X stock purchased on February 1, 1955, would not be affected by section 1233.

# Example 6.
A buys 100 shares of X preferred stock at $10 per share on February 1, 1955. On July 1, 1955, he enters into a contract to sell 100 shares of XY common stock at $16 per share when, as, and if issued pursuant to a particular plan of reorganization. On August 2, 1955, he receives 100 shares of XY common stock in exchange for the 100 shares of X preferred stock purchased on February 1, 1955, and delivers such common shares in performance of his July 1, 1955, contract. Assume that the exchange of the X preferred stock for the XY common stock is a tax-free exchange pursuant to section 354(a)(1), and that on the basis of all of the facts and circumstances existing on July 1, 1955, the
when issued
XY common stock is substantially identical to the X preferred stock. Since 100 shares of substantially identical property had been held by A for not more than 6 months on the date of entering into the July 1, 1955, contract of sale, the gain of $600 realized upon the closing of the contract of sale is, by application of rule (1) in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, a short-term capital gain.
(d)
Other rules for the application of section 1233
—(1)
Substantially identical property.
The term
substantially identical property
is to be applied according to the facts and circumstances in each case. In general, as applied to stocks or securities, the term has the same meaning as the term
substantially identical stock or securities
used in section 1091, relating to wash sales of stocks or securities. For certain restrictions on the term as applied to commodity futures see subparagraph (2) of this paragraph. Ordinarily, stocks or securities of one corporation are not considered
substantially identical to stocks or securities of another corporation. In certain situations they may be substantially identical; for example, in the case of a reorganization the facts and circumstances may be such that the stocks and securities of predecessor and successor corporations are substantially identical property. Similarly, bonds or preferred stock of a corporation are not ordinarily considered substantially identical to the common stock of the same corporation. However, in certain situations, as, for example, where the preferred stock or bonds are convertible into common stock of the same corporation, the relative values, price changes, and other circumstances may be such as to make such bonds or preferred stock and the common stock substantially identical property. Similarly, depending on the facts and circumstances, the term may apply to the stocks and securities to be received in a corporate reorganization or recapitalization, traded in on a when issued basis, as compared with the stocks or securities to be exchanged in such reorganization or recapitalization.
(2)
Commodity futures.
(i) As provided in section 1233(e)(2)(B), in the case of futures transactions in any commodity on or subject to the rules of a board of trade or commodity exchange, a commodity future requiring delivery in one calendar month shall not be considered as property substantially identical to another commodity future requiring delivery in a different calendar month. For example, commodity futures in May wheat and July wheat are not considered, for the purpose of section 1233, substantially identical property. Similarly, futures in different commodities which are not generally through custom of the trade used as hedges for each other (such as corn and wheat, for example) are not considered substantially identical property. If commodity futures are otherwise substantially identical property, the mere fact that they were procured through different brokers will not remove them from the scope of the term
substantially identical property.
Commodity futures procured on different markets may come within the term
substantially identical property
depending upon the facts and circumstances in the case, with the historical similarity in the price movements in the two markets as the primary factor to be considered.
(ii) Section 1233(e)(3), relating to so-called
arbitrage
transactions in commodity futures, provides that where a taxpayer enters into two commodity futures transactions on the same day, one requiring delivery by him in one market and the other requiring delivery to him of the same (or substantially identical) commodity in the same calendar month in a different market, and the taxpayer subsequently closes both such transactions on the same day, section 1233 shall have no application to so much of the commodity involved in either such transaction as does not exceed in quantity the commodity involved in the other. Section 1233(f), relating to arbitrage operations in stocks or securities, has no application to arbitrage transactions in commodity futures.
(iii) The following example indicates the application of section 1233 to a commodity futures transaction:

# Example:
A, who makes his return on the basis of the calendar year, on February 1, 1955, enters into a contract through broker X to purchase 10,000 bushels of December wheat on the Chicago market at $2 per bushel. On July 1, 1955, he enters into a contract through broker Y to sell 10,000 bushels of December wheat on the Chicago market at $2.25 per bushel. On August 2, 1955, he closes both transactions at $2.50 per bushel. The $2,500 loss sustained on the closing of the short sale is a short-term capital loss to which section 1233(d) has no application. By application of rule (2) in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, however, the holding period of the futures contract entered into on February 1, 1955, is considered to begin on August 2, 1955, the date of the closing of the short sale. The $5,000 gain realized upon the closing of such contract is, therefore, a short-term capital gain.
(3)
Husband and wife.
Section 1233(e)(2)(C) provides that, in the case of a short sale of property by an individual, the term
taxpayer
in the application of subsections (b), (d), and (e) shall be read as
taxpayer or his spouse.
Thus, if the spouse of a taxpayer holds or acquires property substantially identical to that sold short by the taxpayer, and other conditions of subsections (b), (d), and (e) are met, then
the rules set forth therein are applicable to the same extent as if the taxpayer held or acquired the substantially identical property. For this purpose, an individual who is legally separated from the taxpayer under a decree of divorce or of separate maintenance shall not be considered as the spouse of the taxpayer.
(e)
Special rule for short sales by dealers in securities under certain circumstances.
In the case of a short sale of stock (as defined in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph) after December 31, 1957, by a dealer in securities, section 1233(e)(4)(A) provides that the holding period of substantially identical stock which he has held as an investment for not more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) shall be determined in accordance with section 1233(b)(2) unless such short sale is closed within 20 days of the date on which it was made. See rule (2) in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for the purpose of determining the holding period of such substantially identical stock. In addition, section 1233(e)(4)(B) provides that for the purpose of the special rule of section 1233(e)(4)(A), the acquisition of an option to sell property at a fixed price shall be considered a short sale, and the exercise or failure to exercise such option shall be considered a closing of such short sale. For purposes of this paragraph:
(1) Whether or not a taxpayer is a
dealer in securities
shall be determined in accordance with the meaning of the term for purposes of section 1236;
(2) Whether or not stock is
substantially identical
with other property shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(1) of this section; and
(3) The term
stock
means:
(i) Any share or certificate of stock,
(ii) Any bond or other evidence of indebtedness which is convertible into a share or certificate of stock, and
(iii) Any evidence of an interest in, or right to subscribe to or purchase, any of the items described in subdivision (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph.
(f)
Arbitrage operations in stocks and securities and holding periods
—(1)
General rule.
(i) In the case of a short sale entered into as part of an arbitrage operation, rule (2) of paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall apply first to substantially identical property acquired for arbitrage operations and held by the taxpayer at the close of business on the day of the short sale. The holding period of substantially identical property not acquired for arbitrage operations shall be affected only to the extent that the amount of property sold short exceeds the amount of substantially identical property acquired for arbitrage operations and held by the tapayer at the close of business on the day of the short sale.
(ii) If the substantially identical property acquired for arbitrage operations is disposed of without closing the short sale so that a net short position in assets acquired for arbitrage operations is created, a short sale in the amount of such net short position will be deemed to have been made on the day such net short position is created. Rule (2) of paragraph (c)(2) of this section will then apply to substantially identical property not acquired for arbitrage operations to the same extent as if the taxpayer, on the day such net short position is created, sold short an amount equal to the amount of the net short position in a transaction not entered into as part of an arbitrage operation.
(iii) The following examples illustrate the application of rule (2) of paragraph (c)(2) of this section to arbitrage operations:

# Example 1.
On August 13, 1957, A buys 100 bonds of X Corporation for purposes other than arbitrage operations. The bonds are convertible at the option of the bondholders into common stock of X Corporation on the basis of one bond for one share of stock. On November 1, 1957, A sells short 100 shares of common stock of X Corporation in a transaction identified and intended to be part of an arbitrage operation and on the same day buys another 100 bonds of X Corporation in a transaction identified and intended to be part of the same arbitrage operation. The bonds acquired on both August 13, 1957, and November 1, 1957, are, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, substantially identical to the common stock of X Corporation. On December 1, 1957, A closes the short sale with 100 shares of common stock of X Corporation acquired on that day. The holding period of the bonds acquired on November 1, by application of rule (2) of paragraph (c)(2)
of this section, will be deemed to begin on December 1 and the holding period of the bonds acquired on August 13 will be unaffected. If, instead of purchasing the 100 shares of common stock of X Corporation on December 1, 1957, A had converted the bonds acquired on November 1 into common stock and, on December 1, 1957, used the stock so acquired to close the short sale, rule (2) of paragraph (c)(2) of this section would similarly have no effect on the holding period of the bonds acquired on August 13.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that A, on December 1, sells the bonds acquired on November 1 (or converts such bonds into common stock and sells the stock), but does not close the short sale. The sale of the bonds (or stock) creates a net short position in assets acquired for arbitrage operations which is deemed to be a short sale made on December 1. Accordingly, the holding period of the bonds acquired on August 13 will, by application of rule (2) of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, begin on the date such short sale is closed or on the date of sale, gift, or other disposition of such bonds, whichever date occurs first.
(2)
Right to receive or acquire property.
(i) For purposes of section 1233(f) (1) and (2) and subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, a taxpayer will be deemed to hold substantially identical property acquired for arbitrage operations at the close of any business day if, by virtue of the ownership of other property acquired for arbitrage operations (whether or not substantially identical) or because of any contract entered into by the taxpayer in an arbitrage operation, he then has the right to receive or acquire such substantially identical property.
(ii) The application of section 1233(f)(3) and subdivision (i) of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
A acquires on August 13, 1957, 100 shares of common stock of X Corporation for purposes other than arbitrage operations. On November 1, A sells short, in a transaction identified and intended to be part of an arbitrage operation, 100 shares of X common stock. On the same day, in a transaction also identified and intended to be part of the same arbitrage operation, A contracts to purchase 100 shares of preferred stock of X. The preferred stock of X may be converted into common stock of X on the basis of one share of preferred stock for one share of common stock. The preferred stock is not actually delivered to A until November 3. Since A has contracted before the close of business on the date of the short sale, as part of an arbitrage operation, to purchase property by virtue of which he has the right to receive or acquire substantially identical property to that sold short, he will be deemed, for purposes of section 1233(f) (1) and (2), to hold such substantially identical property at the close of business on the date of the short sale. For purposes of this subparagraph, it is immaterial whether, on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, the preferred stock of X is substantially identical to the common stock of X. The short sale on November 1 does not affect the holding period of the 100 shares of X Corporation common stock purchased on August 13, 1957. Because of the operation of rule (2) of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the holding period of the preferred stock acquired as the result of A's contract to purchase it as part of an arbitrage operation (or the common stock which A acquires by conversion of such preferred stock into common stock) will not begin until the short sale entered into in the arbitrage operation is closed.
(3)
Definition of arbitrage operations.
For the purpose of section 1233(f), arbitrage operations are transactions involving the purchase and sale of property entered into for the purpose of profiting from a current difference between the price of the property purchased and the price of the property sold. Assets acquired for arbitrage operations include only stocks and securities and rights to acquire stocks and securities. The property purchased may be either identical to the property sold or, if not so identical, such that its acquisition will entitle the taxpayer to acquire property which is so identical. Thus, the purchase of bonds or preferred stock convertible, at the holder's option, into common stock and the short sale of the common stock which may be acquired therefor, or the purchase of stock rights and the short sale of the stock to be acquired on the exercise of such rights, may qualify as arbitrage operations. A transaction will qualify as an arbitrage operation under section 1233(f) only if the taxpayer properly identifies the transaction as an arbitrage operation on his records as soon as he is able to do so. Such identification must ordinarily be entered in the taxpayer's records on the day of the transaction. Property acquired in a transaction properly identified as part of an arbitrage operation is the only property which will be deemed acquired for an arbitrage operation.
The provisions of section 1233(f) and this paragraph shall continue to apply to property acquired in a transaction properly identified as an arbitrage operation although, because of subsequent events, e.g., a change in the value of bonds so acquired or of stock into which such bonds may be converted, the taxpayer sells such property outright rather than using it to complete the arbitrage operation.
(4)
Effective date of section 1233(f).
Section 1233(f), relating to arbitrage operations involving short sales of property, is effective only with respect to taxable years ending after August 12, 1955, and only with respect to short sales made after such date.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12011, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6494, 25 FR 9372, Sept. 30, 1960; T.D. 6926, 32 FR 11468, Aug. 9, 1967; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 1.1233-2
Hedging transactions.
The character of gain or loss on a short sale that is (or is identified as being) part of a hedging transaction is determined under the rules of § 1.1221-2.
[T.D. 8555, 59 FR 36367, July 18, 1994]
§ 1.1234-1
Options to buy or sell.
(a)
Sale or exchange
—(1)
Capital assets.
Gain or loss from the sale or exchange of an option (or privilege) to buy or sell property which is (or if acquired would be) a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer holding the option is considered as gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset (unless, under the provisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the gain or loss is subject to the provisions of section 1231). The period for which the taxpayer has held the option determines whether the capital gain or loss is short-term or long-term.
(2)
Section 1231 transactions.
Gain or loss from the sale or exchange of an option to buy or sell property is considered a gain or loss subject to the provisions of section 1231 if, had the sale or exchange been of the property subject to the option, held by the taxpayer for the length of time he held the option, the sale or exchange would have been subject to the provisions of section 1231.
(3)
Other property.
Gain or loss from the sale or exchange of an option to buy or sell property which is not (or if acquired would not be) a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer holding the option is considered ordinary income or loss (unless under the provisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the gain or loss is subject to the provisions of section 1231).
(b)
Failure to exercise option.
If the holder of an option to buy or sell property incurs a loss on failure to exercise the option, the option is deemed to have been sold or exchanged on the date that it expired. Any such loss to the holder of an option is treated under the general rule provided in paragraph (a) of this section. In general, any gain to the grantor of an option arising from the failure of the holder to exercise it, and any gain or loss realized by the grantor of an option as a result of a closing transaction, such as repurchasing the option from the holder, is considered ordinary income or loss. However, for the treatment of gain or loss from a closing transaction with respect to or gain on the lapse of an option granted in stock, securities, commodities or commodity futures, see section 1234(b) and § 1.1234-3. For special rules for grantors of straddles applicable to certain options granted on or before September 1, 1976, see § 1.1234-2.
(c)
Certain options to sell property at a fixed price.
Section 1234 does not apply to a loss on the failure to exercise an option to sell property at a fixed price which is acquired on the same day on which the property identified as intended to be used in exercising the option is acquired. Such a loss is not recognized, but the cost of the option is added to the basis of the property with which it is identified. See section 1233(c) and the regulations thereunder.
(d)
Dealers in options to buy or sell.
Any gain or loss realized by a dealer in options from the sale or exchange or an option to buy or sell property is considered ordinary income or loss under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. A dealer in options to buy or sell property is considered a dealer in the property subject to the option.
(e)
Other exceptions.
Section 1234 does not apply to gain resulting from the sale or exchange of an option:
(1) To the extent that the gain is in the nature of compensation (see sections 61 and 421, and the regulations thereunder, relating to employee stock options);
(2) If the option is treated as section 306 stock (see section 306 and the regulations thereunder, relating to dispositions of certain stock); or
(3) To the extent that the gain is a distribution of earnings or profits taxable as a dividend (see section 301 and the regulations thereunder, relating to distributions of property).
(4) Acquired by the taxpayer before March 1, 1954, if in the hands of the taxpayer such option is a capital asset (whether or not the property to which the option relates is, or would be if acquired by the taxpayer, a capital asset in the hands of the taxpayer).
(f)
Limitations on effect of section.
Losses to which section 1234 applies are subject to the limitations on losses under sections 165(c) and 1211 when applicable. Section 1234 does not permit the deduction of any loss which is disallowed under any other provision of law. In addition, section 1234 does not apply to an option to lease property, but does apply to an option to buy or sell a lease. Thus, an option to obtain all the right, title, and interest of a lessee in leased property is subject to the provisions of section 1234, but an option to obtain a sublease from the lessee is not. Furthermore, if section 1234 applies to an option to buy or sell a lease, it is the character the lease itself, if acquired, would have in the hands of the taxpayer, and not the character of the property leased, which determines the treatment of gain or loss experienced by the taxpayer with respect to such an option.
(g)
Examples.
The rules set forth in this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A taxpayer is considering buying a new house for his residence and acquires an option to buy a certain house at a fixed price. Although the property goes up in value, the taxpayer decides he does not want the house for his residence and sells the option for more than he paid for it. The gain which taxpayer realized is a capital gain since the property, if acquired, would have been a capital asset in his hands.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that the property goes down in value, and the taxpayer decides not to purchase the house. He sells the option at a loss. While this is a capital loss under section 1234, it is not a deductible loss because of the provisions of section 165(c).

# Example 3.
A dealer in industrial property acquires an option to buy an industrial site and fails to exercise the option. The loss is an ordinary loss since he would have held the property for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his trade or business if he had acquired it.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12013, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7652, 44 FR 62282, Oct. 30, 1979]
§ 1.1234-2
Special rule for grantors of straddles applicable to certain options granted on or before September 1, 1976.
(a)
In general.
Section 1234(c)(1) provides a special rule applicable in the case of gain on the lapse of an option granted by the taxpayer as part of a straddle. In such a case, the gain shall be deemed to be gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for not more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977) on the day that the option expired. Thus, such gain shall be treated as a short-term capital gain, as defined in section 1222(1). Section 1234(c)(1) does not apply to any person who holds securities (including options to acquire or sell securities) for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his trade or business.
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of section 1234(c) and this section.
(1)
Straddle.
The term
straddle
means a simultaneously granted combination of an option to buy (i.e., a
call
) and an option to sell (i.e., a
put
) the same quantity of a security at the same price during the same period of time.
(2)
Security.
The term
security
has the meaning assigned to such term by section 1236(c) and the regulations thereunder. Thus, for example, the term
security
does not include commodity futures.
(3)
Grantor.
The term
grantor
means the writer or issuer of the option contracts making up the straddle.
(4)
Multiple option.
The term
multiple option
means a simultaneously granted combination of an option to buy plus an option to sell plus one or more additional options to buy or sell a security.
(c)
Special rules in the case of a multiple option.
(1) If, in the case of a multiple option, the number of the options to sell and the number of the options to buy are the same and if the terms of all of the options are identical (as to the quantity of the security, price, and period of time), then each of the options contained in the multiple option shall be deemed to be a component of a straddle for purposes of section 1234(c)(1) and paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If, in the case of a multiple option, the number of the options to sell and the number of the options to buy are not the same or if the terms of all of the options are not identical (as to the quantity of the security, price, and period of time), then section 1234(c)(1) applies to gain on the lapse of an option granted as part of the multiple option only if:
(i) The grantor of the multiple option identifies the two options which comprise each straddle contained in the multiple option in the manner prescribed in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph; or
(ii) It is clear from the facts and circumstances that the lapsed option was part of a straddle. See example (6) of paragraph (f) of this section. A multiple option to which this subdivision applies may not be regarded as consisting of a number of straddles which exceeds the lesser of the options to sell or the options to buy as the case may be. For example, if a multiple option of five puts and four calls is granted it may not be regarded as consisting of more than four straddles, although the particular facts and circumstances could dictate that the option consists of less than four straddles.
(3) The identification required under subparagraph (2)(i) of this paragraph shall be made by the grantor indicating in his records, to the extent feasible, the individual serial number of, or other characteristic symbol imprinted upon, each of the two individual options which comprise the straddle, or by adopting any other method of identification satisfactory to the Commissioner. Such identification must be made before the expiration of the 15th day after the day on which the multiple option is granted. The preceding sentence shall apply only with respect to multiple options granted after January 24, 1972. In computing the 15-day period prescribed by this paragraph, the first day of such period is the day following the day on which the multiple option is granted.
(d)
Allocation of premium.
The allocation of a premium received for a straddle or a multiple option between or among the component options thereof shall be made on the basis of the relative market value of such component options at the time of their issuance or on any other reasonable and consistently applied basis which is acceptable to the Commissioner.
(e)
Effective date
—(1)
In general.
This section, relating to special rules for grantors of straddles, shall apply only with respect to straddle transactions entered into after January 25, 1965, and before September 2, 1976.
(2)
Special rule.
For a special rule with respect to the identification of a straddle granted as part of a multiple option, see paragraph (c).
(f)
Illustrations.
The application of section 1234(c) and this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On February 1, 1971, taxpayer A, who files his income tax returns on a calendar year basis, issues a straddle for 100 shares of X Corporation stock and receives a premium of $1,000. The options comprising the straddle were to expire on August 10, 1971. A has allocated $450 (45 percent of $1,000) of the premium to the put and $550 (55 percent of $1,000) to the call. On March 1, 1971, B, the holder of the put, exercises his option. C, the holder of the call, fails to exercise his option prior to its expiration. As a result of C's failure to exercise his option, A realizes a short-term capital gain of $550 (that part of the premium allocated to the call) on August 10, 1971.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that C exercises his call on March 1, 1971, and B fails to exercise his put prior to its expiration. As a result of B's failure to exercise his option, A realizes a short-term capital gain of $450 (that part of the premium allocated to the put) on August 10, 1971.

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that both B and C fail to exercise their respective options. As a result
of the failure of B and C to exercise their options, A realizes short-term capital gains of $1,000 (the premium for granting the straddle) on August 10, 1971.

# Example 4.
On March 1, 1971, taxpayer D issues a multiple option containing five puts and five calls. Each put and each call is for the same number of shares of Y Corporation stock, at the same price, and for the same period of time. Thus, each of the puts and calls is deemed to be a component part of a straddle. The puts and calls comprising the multiple option were to expire on September 10, 1971. All of the puts are exercised, and all of the calls lapse. As a result of the lapse of the calls, D realizes a short-term capital gain on September 10, 1971, in the amount of that part of the premium for the multiple option which is allocable to all of the calls.

# Example 5.
Assume the same facts as in example (4) except that one of the puts and two of the calls lapse and the remaining puts and calls are exercised. As a result, on September 10, 1971, D realizes a short-term capital gain in the amount of that part of the premium for the multiple option which is allocable to both of the lapsed calls and the lapsed put.

# Example 6.
On March 1, 1971, taxpayer E issues a multiple option containing five puts and four calls. Each put and call is for the same number of shares of Y Corporation stock at the same price and for the same period of time, E does not identify the puts and calls as parts of straddles in the manner prescribed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. However, because the terms of all of the puts and all of the calls are identical four of the puts and four of the calls are deemed to be a component part of a straddle. The puts and calls comprising the multiple option were to expire on September 10, 1971. Four of the puts are exercised and the four calls and one of the puts lapse. As a result, on September 10, 1971, E realizes short-term capital gain in the amount of that part of the premium for the multiple option which is allocable to the four lapsed calls and realizes ordinary income in the amount of that part of such premium which is allocable to the lapsed put. If E had identified four of the puts and four of the calls as constituting parts of straddles in the manner prescribed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and the put that lapsed constituted part of a straddle, then the gain on the lapse of the put would also be short-term capital gain.

# Example 7.
Assume the same facts as in example (6) except that two of the puts are for Y Corporation stock at a price which is greater than that of the other puts and the other calls and that two of the calls expire on October 10, 1971. Additionally, assume that the put which lapses is at the lower price. The two puts offering the Y Corporation stock at the greater price and the two calls with the later expiration date cannot be deemed to be component parts of a straddle. Thus, only two of the puts and two of the calls are deemed to be a component part of a straddle. As a result, E realizes income as follows:
(i) On September 10, 1971, short-term capital gain in the amount of that part of the premium for the multiple option which is allocable to the two lapsed calls with the expiration date of September 10, 1971, and ordinary income in the amount of that part of such premium which is allocable to the lapsed put. If E had identified two of the puts at the lower price and the two calls with the expiration date of September 10, 1971, as constituting parts of straddles in the manner prescribed in paragraph (c)(3) of this section and if the put that lapsed was one of those identified as constituting a part of a straddle, then the gain on the lapse of that put would also be short-term capital gain.
(ii) On October 10, 1971, ordinary income in the amount of that part of the premium for the multiple option which is allocable to the lapsed calls with an expiration date of October 10, 1971.
[T.D. 7152, 36 FR 24801, Dec. 23, 1971, as amended by T.D. 7210, 37 FR 20688, Oct. 3, 1972; T.D. 7652, 44 FR 62282, Oct. 30, 1979; 44 FR 67657, Nov. 27, 1979; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 1.1234-3
Special rules for the treatment of grantors of certain options granted after September 1, 1976.
(a)
In general.
In the case of the grantor of an option (including an option granted as part of a straddle or multiple option), gain of loss from any closing transaction with respect to, and gain on the lapse of, an option in property shall be treated as a gain or loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held not more than 1 year. (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977).
(b)
Definitions.
The following definitions apply for purposes of this section.
(1) The term
closing transaction
means any termination of a grantor's obligation under an option to buy property (a
call
) or an option to sell property (a
put
) other than through the exercise or lapse of the option. For example, the grantor of a call may effectively terminate his obligation under the option by either:
(i) Repurchasing the option from the holder or
(ii) Purchasing from an options exchange a call with terms identical to
the original option granted and designating the purchase as a closing transaction.
A put or call purchased to make a closing transaction is identical as to striking price and expiration date. Such put or call need not match the granted option in time of creation, date of acquisition, cost of the entire option or units therein, or number of units subject to the option. If such put or call terminates only part of a grantor's obligation under the granted option, a closing transaction is made as to that part.
(2) The term
property
means stocks and securities (including stocks and securities dealt with on a
when issued
basis), commodities, and commodity futures.
(3) The term
grantor
means the writer or issuer of an option.
(4) The term
straddle
means a simultaneously granted combination of an option to buy and an option to sell the same quantity of property at the same price during the same period of time.
(5) The term
multiple option
means a simultaneously granted combination of an option to buy plus an option to sell plus one or more additional options to buy or sell property.
(c)
Nonapplicability to broker-dealers.
The provisions of this section do not apply to any option granted in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's trade or business of granting options. However, the provisions of this section do apply to:
(1) Gain from any closing transaction with respect to an option and gain on lapse of an option if gain on the sale or exchange of the option would be considered capital gain by a dealer in securities under section 1236(a) and the regulations thereunder, and
(2) Loss from any closing transaction with respect to an option if loss on the sale or exchange of the option would not be considered ordinary loss by a dealer in securities under section 1236(b) and the regulations thereunder.
The preceding sentence shall be applied with respect to dealers in
property
(as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) and without regard to the limitation of the applicability of section 1236 to dealers in securities.
(d)
Nonapplicability to compensatory options.
Section 1234 does not apply to options to purchase stock or other property which are issued as compensation for services, as described in sections 61, 83, and 421 and the regulations thereunder.
(e)
Premium allocation for simultaneously granted options.
The allocation of a premium received for a straddle or multiple option between or among the component options thereof shall be made on the basis of the relative market value of the component options at the time of their issuance or on any other reasonable and consistently applied basis which is acceptable to the Commissioner.
(f)
Effective date.
This section, relating to special rules for the treatment of grantors of certain options, shall apply to options granted after September 1, 1976.
[T.D. 7652, 44 FR 62282, Oct. 30, 1979; 44 FR 67657, Nov. 27, 1979]
§ 1.1234-4
Hedging transactions.
The character of gain or loss on an acquired or a written option that is (or is identified as being) part of a hedging transaction is determined under the rules of § 1.1221-2.
[T.D. 8555, 59 FR 36367, July 18, 1994]
§ 1.1235-1
Sale or exchange of patents.
(a)
General rule.
Section 1235 provides that a transfer (other than by gift, inheritance, or devise) of all substantial rights to a patent, or of an undivided interest in all such rights to a patent, by a holder to a person other than a related person constitutes the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), whether or not payments therefor are:
(1) Payable periodically over a period generally coterminous with the transferee's use of the patent, or
(2) Contingent on the productivity, use, or disposition of the property transferred.
(b)
Scope of section 1235.
If a transfer is not one described in paragraph (a) of this section, section 1235 shall be disregarded in determining whether or not such transfer is the sale or exchange of
a capital asset. For example, a transfer by a person other than a holder or a transfer by a holder to a related person is not governed by section 1235. The tax consequences of such transfers shall be determined under other provisions of the internal revenue laws.
(c)
Special rules
—(1)
Payments for infringement.
If section 1235 applies to the transfer of all substantial rights to a patent (or an undivided interest therein), amounts received in settlement of, or as the award of damages in, a suit for compensatory damages for infringement of the patent shall be considered payments attributable to a transfer to which section 1235 applies to the extent that such amounts relate to the interest transferred. For taxable years beginning before January 1, 1964, see section 1304, as in effect before such date, and § 1.1304A-1 for treatment of compensatory damages for patent infringement.
(2)
Payments to an employee.
Payments received by an employee as compensation for services rendered as an employee under an employment contract requiring the employee to transfer to the employer the rights to any invention by such employee are not attributable to a transfer to which section 1235 applies. However, whether payments received by an employee from his employer (under an employment contract or otherwise) are attributable to the transfer by the employee of all substantial rights to a patent (or an undivided interest therein) or are compensation for services rendered the employer by the employee is a question of fact. In determining which is the case, consideration shall be given not only to all the facts and circumstances of the employment relationship but also to whether the amount of such payments depends upon the production, sale, or use by, or the value to, the employer of the patent rights transferred by the employee. If it is determined that payments are attributable to the transfer of patent rights, and all other requirements under section 1235 are met, such payments shall be treated as proceeds derived from the sale of a patent.
(3)
Successive transfers.
The applicability of section 1235 to transfers of undivided interest in patents, or to successive transfers of such rights, shall be determined separately with respect to each transfer. For example, X, who is a holder, and Y, who is not a holder, transfer their respective two-thirds and one-third undivided interests in a patent to Z. Assume the transfer by X qualifies under section 1235 and that X in a later transfer acquires all the rights with respect to Y's interest, including the rights to payments from Z. One-third of all the payments thereafter received by X from Z are not attributable to a transfer to which section 1235 applies.
(d)
Payor's treatment of payments in a transfer under section 1235.
Payments made by the transferee of patent rights pursuant to a transfer satisfying the requirements of section 1235 are payments of the purchase price for the patent rights and are not the payment of royalties.
(e)
Effective date.
Amounts received or accrued, and payments made or accrued, during any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1953 and ending after August 16, 1954, pursuant to a transfer satisfying the requirements of section 1235, whether such transfer occurred in a taxable year to which the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 applies, or in a year prior thereto, are subject to the provisions of section 1235.
(f)
Nonresident aliens.
For the special rule relating to nonresident aliens who have gains arising from a transfer to which section 1235 applies, see section 871 and the regulations thereunder. For withholding of tax from income of nonresident aliens, see section 1441 and the regulations thereunder.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12014, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6885, 31 FR 7803, June 2, 1966; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 1.1235-2
Definition of terms.
For the purposes of section 1235 and § 1.1235-1:
(a)
Patent.
The term
patent
means a patent granted under the provisions of title 35 of the United States Code, or any foreign patent granting rights generally similar to those under a United States patent. It is not necessary that the patent or patent application for the invention be in existence if the requirements of section 1235 are otherwise met.
(b)
All substantial rights to a patent.
(1) The term
all substantial rights to a patent
means all rights (whether or not then held by the grantor) which are of value at the time the rights to the patent (or an undivided interest therein) are transferred. The term
all substantial rights to a patent
does not include a grant of rights to a patent:
(i) Which is limited geographically within the country of issuance;
(ii) Which is limited in duration by the terms of the agreement to a period less than the remaining life of the patent;
(iii) Which grants rights to the grantee, in fields of use within trades or industries, which are less than all the rights covered by the patent, which exist and have value at the time of the grant; or
(iv) Which grants to the grantee less than all the claims or inventions covered by the patent which exist and have value at the time of the grant.
The circumstances of the whole transaction, rather than the particular terminology used in the instrument of transfer, shall be considered in determining whether or not all substantial rights to a patent are transferred in a transaction.
(2) Rights which are not considered substantial for purposes of section 1235 may be retained by the holder. Examples of such rights are:
(i) The retention by the transferor of legal title for the purpose of securing performance or payment by the transferee in a transaction involving transfer of an exclusive license to manufacture, use, and sell for the life of the patent;
(ii) The retention by the transferor of rights in the property which are not inconsistent with the passage of ownership, such as the retention of a security interest (such as a vendor's lien), or a reservation in the nature of a condition subsequent (such as a provision for forfeiture on account of nonperformance).
(3) Examples of rights which may or may not be substantial, depending upon the circumstances of the whole transaction in which rights to a patent are transferred, are:
(i) The retention by the transferor of an absolute right to prohibit sublicensing or subassignment by the transferee;
(ii) The failure to convey to the transferee the right to use or to sell the patent property.
(4) The retention of a right to terminate the transfer at will is the retention of a substantial right for the purposes of section 1235.
(c)
Undivided interest.
A person owns an
undivided interest
in all substantial rights to a patent when he owns the same fractional share of each and every substantial right to the patent. It does not include, for example, a right to the income from a patent, or a license limited geographically, or a license which covers some, but not all, of the valuable claims or uses covered by the patent. A transfer limited in duration by the terms of the instrument to a period less than the remaining life of the patent is not a transfer of an undivided interest in all substantial rights to a patent.
(d)
Holder.
(1) The term
holder
means any individual:
(i) Whose efforts created the patent property and who would qualify as the
original and first
inventor, or joint inventor, within the meaning of title 35 U.S.C., or
(ii) Who has acquired his interest in the patent property in exchange for a consideration paid to the inventor in money or money's worth prior to the actual reduction of the invention to practice (see paragraph (e) of this section), provided that such individual was neither the employer of the inventor nor related to him (see paragraph (f) of this section). The requirement that such individual is neither the employer of the inventor nor related to him must be satisfied at the time when the substantive rights as to the interest to be acquired are determined, and at the time when the consideration in money or money's worth to be paid is definitely fixed. For example, if prior to the actual reduction to practice of an invention an individual who is neither the employer of the inventor nor related to him agrees to pay the inventor a sum of money definitely fixed as to amount in return for an undivided one-half interest in rights to a patent and at a later date, when such individual has become the employer of the
inventor, he pays the definitely fixed sum of money pursuant to the earlier agreement, such individual will not be denied the status of a holder because of such employment relationship.
(2) Although a partnership cannot be a holder, each member of a partnership who is an individual may qualify as a holder as to his share of a patent owned by the partnership. For example, if an inventor who is a member of a partnership composed solely of individuals uses partnership property in the development of his invention with the understanding that the patent when issued will become partnership property, each of the inventor's partners during this period would qualify as a holder. If, in this example, the partnership were not composed solely of individuals, nevertheless, each of the individual partners' distributive shares of income attributable to the transfer of all substantial rights to the patent or an undivided interest therein, would be considered proceeds from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977).
(3) An individual may qualify as a holder whether or not he is in the business of making inventions or in the business of buying and selling patents.
(e)
Actual reduction to practice.
For the purposes of determining whether an individual is a holder under paragraph (d) of this section, the term
actual reduction to practice
has the same meaning as it does under section 102(g) of title 35 of the United States Code. Generally, an invention is reduced to actual practice when it has been tested and operated successfully under operating conditions. This may occur either before or after application for a patent but cannot occur later than the earliest time that commercial exploitation of the invention occurs.
(f)
Related person.
(1) The term
related person
means one whose relationship to another person at the time of the transfer is described in section 267(b), except that the term does not include a brother or sister, whether of the whole or the half blood. Thus, if a holder transfers all his substantial rights to a patent to his brother or sister, or both, such transfer is not to a related person.
(2) If, prior to September 3, 1958, a holder transferred all his substantial rights to a patent to a corporation in which he owned more than 50 percent in value of the outstanding stock, he is considered as having transferred such rights to a related person for the purpose of section 1235. On the other hand, if a holder, prior to September 3, 1958, transferred all his substantial rights to a patent to a corporation in which he owned 50 percent or less in value of the outstanding stock and his brother owned the remaining stock, he is not considered as having transferred such rights to a related person since the brother relationship is to be disregarded for purposes of section 1235.
(3) If, subsequent to September 2, 1958, a holder transfers all his substantial rights to a patent to a corporation in which he owns 25 percent or more in value of the outstanding stock, he is considered as transferring such rights to a related person for the purpose of section 1235. On the other hand if a holder, subsequent to September 2, 1958, transfers all his substantial rights to a patent to a corporation in which he owns less than 25 percent in value of the outstanding stock and his brother owns the remaining stock, he is not considered as transferring such rights to a related person since the brother relationship is to be disregarded for purposes of section 1235.
(4) If a relationship described in section 267(b) exists independently of family status, the brother-sister exception, described in subparagraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this paragraph, does not apply. Thus, if a holder transfers all his substantial rights to a patent to the fiduciary of a trust of which the holder is the grantor, the holder and the fiduciary are related persons for purposes of section 1235(d). (See section 267(b)(4).) The transfer, therefore, would not qualify under section 1235(a). This result obtains whether or not the fiduciary is the brother or sister of the holder since the disqualifying relationship exists because of the grantor-fiduciary status and not because of family status.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12014, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6852, 30 FR 12730, Oct. 6, 1965; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980]
§ 1.1236-1
Dealers in securities.
(a)
Capital gains.
Section 1236(a) provides that gain realized by a dealer in securities from the sale or exchange of a security (as defined in paragraph (c) of this section) shall not be considered as gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset unless:
(1) The security is, before the expiration of the thirtieth day after the date of its acquisition, clearly identified in the dealer's records as a security held for investment or, if acquired before October 20, 1951, was so identified before November 20, 1951; and
(2) The security is not held by the dealer primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his trade or business at any time after the identification referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph has been made.
Unless both of these requirements are met, the gain is considered as gain from the sale of assets held by the dealer primarily for sale to customers in the course of his business.
(b)
Ordinary losses.
Section 1236(b) provides that a loss sustained by a dealer in securities from the sale or exchange of a security shall not be considered a loss from the sale or exchange of property which is not a capital asset if at any time after November 19, 1951, the security has been clearly identified in the dealer's records as a security held for investment. Once a security has been identified after November 19, 1951, as being held by the dealer for investment, it shall retain that character for purposes of determining loss on its ultimate disposition, even though at the time of its disposition the dealer holds it primarily for sale to his customers in the ordinary course of his business. However, section 1236 has no application to the extent that section 582(c) applies to losses of banks.
(c)
Definitions
—(1)
Security.
For the purposes of this section, the term
security
means any share of stock in any corporation, any certificate of stock or interest in any corporation, any note, bond, debenture, or other evidence of indebtedness, or any evidence of any interest in, or right to subscribe to or purchase, any of the foregoing.
(2)
Dealer in securities.
For definition of a
dealer in securities,
see the regulations under section 471.
(d)
Identification of security in dealer's records.
(1) A security is clearly identified in the dealer's records as a security held for investment when there is an accounting separation of the security from other securities, as by making appropriate entries in the dealer's books of account to distinguish the security from inventories and to designate it as an investment and by (i) indicating with such entries, to the extent feasible, the individual serial number of, or other characteristic symbol imprinted upon, the individual security, or (ii) adopting any other method of identification satisfactory to the Commissioner.
(2) In computing the 30-day period prescribed by section 1236(a), the first day of the period is the day following the date of acquisition. Thus, in the case of a security acquired on March 18, 1957, the 30-day period expires at midnight on April 17, 1957.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12015, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6726, 29 FR 5667, Apr. 29, 1964]
§ 1.1237-1
Real property subdivided for sale.
(a)
General rule
—(1)
Introductory.
This section provides a special rule for determining whether the taxpayer holds real property primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his business under section 1221(1). This rule is to permit taxpayers qualifying under it to sell real estate from a single tract held for investment without the income being treated as ordinary income merely because of subdividing the tract or of active efforts to sell it. The rule is not applicable to dealers in real estate or to corporations, except a corporation making such sales in a taxable year beginning after December 3l, 1954, if such corporation qualifies under the provisions of paragraph (c)(5)(iv) of this section.
(2)
When subdividing and selling activities are to be disregarded.
When its conditions are met, section 1237 provides that if there is no other substantial evidence that a taxpayer holds real estate primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his business, he shall not be considered a real estate dealer holding it primarily for sale merely because he has (i) subdivided
the tract into lots (or parcels) and (ii) engaged in advertising, promotion, selling activities or the use of sales agents in connection with the sale of lots in such subdivision. Such subdividing and selling activities shall be disregarded in determining the purpose for which the taxpayer held real property sold from a subdivision whenever it is the only substantial evidence indicating that the taxpayer has ever held the real property sold primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his business.
(3)
When subdividing and selling activities are to be taken into account.
When other substantial evidence tends to show that the taxpayer held real property for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his business, his activities in connection with the subdivision and sale of the property sold shall be taken into account in determining the purpose for which the taxpayer held both the subdivided property and any other real property. For example, such other evidence may consist of the taxpayer's selling activities in connection with other property in prior years during which he was engaged in subdividing or selling activities with respect to the subdivided tract, his intention in prior years (or at the time of acquiring the property subdivided) to hold the tract primarily for sale in his business, his subdivision of other tracts in the same year, his holding other real property for sale to customers in the same year, or his construction of a permanent real estate office which he could use in selling other real property. On the other hand, if the only evidence of the taxpayer's purpose in holding real property consisted of not more than one of the following, in the year in question, such fact would not be considered substantial other evidence:
(i) Holding a real estate dealer's license;
(ii) Selling other real property which was clearly investment property;
(iii) Acting as a salesman for a real estate dealer, but without any financial interest in the business; or
(iv) Mere ownership of other vacant real property without engaging in any selling activity whatsoever with respect to it.
If more than one of the above exists, the circumstances may or may not constitute substantial evidence that the taxpayer held real property for sale in his business, depending upon the particular facts in each case.
(4)
Section 1237 not exclusive.
(i) The rule in section 1237 is not exclusive in its application. Section 1237 has no application in determining whether or not real property is held by a taxpayer primarily for sale in his business if any requirement under the section is not met. Also, even though the conditions of section 1237 are met, the rules of section 1237 are not applicable if without regard to section 1237 the real property sold would not have been considered real property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his business. Thus, the district director may at all times conclude from convincing evidence that the taxpayer held the real property solely as an investment. Furthermore, whether or not the conditions of section 1237 are met, the section has no application to losses realized upon the sale of realty from subdivided property.
(ii) If, owing solely to the application of section 1237, the real property sold is deemed not to have been held primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, any gain realized upon such sale shall be treated as ordinary income to the extent provided in section 1237(b) (1) and (2) and paragraph (e) of this section. Any additional gain realized upon the sale shall be treated as gain arising from the sale of a capital asset or, if the circumstances so indicate, as gain arising from the sale of real property used in the trade or business as defined in section 1231 (b)(1). For the relationship between sections 1237 and 1231, see paragraph (f) of this section.
(5)
Principal conditions of qualification.
Before section 1237 applies, the taxpayer must meet three basic conditions, more fully explained later: He cannot have held any part of the tract at any time previously for sale in the ordinary course of his business, nor in the year of sale held any other real estate for sale to customers; he cannot make substantial improvements on the tract which increase the value of the lot sold substantially; and he must
have owned the property 5 years, unless he inherited it. However, the taxpayer may make certain improvements if they are necessary to make the property marketable if he elects neither to add their cost to the basis of the property, or of any other property, nor to deduct the cost as an expense, and he has held the property at least 10 years. If the requirements of section 1237 are met, gain (but not more than 5 percent of the selling price of each lot) shall be treated as ordinary income in and after the year in which the sixth lot or parcel is sold.
(b)
Disqualification arising from holding real property primarily for sale
—(1)
General rule.
Section 1237 does not apply to any transaction if the taxpayer either:
(i) Held the lot sold (or the tract of which it was a part) primarily for sale in the ordinary course of his business in a prior year, or
(ii) Holds other real property primarily for sale in the ordinary course of his business in the same year in which such lot is sold.
Where either of these elements is present, section 1237 shall be disregarded in determining the proper treatment of any gain arising from such sale.
(2)
Method of applying general rule.
For purposes of this paragraph, in determining whether the lot sold was held primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business in a prior year, the principles of section 1237 shall be applied, whether or not section 1237 was effective for such prior year, if the sale of the lot occurs after December 31, 1953, or, in the case of a corporation meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(iv) of this section, if the sale of the lot occurs in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1954. Whether, on the other hand, the taxpayer holds other real property for sale in the ordinary course of his business in the same year such lot was sold shall be determined without regard to the application of section 1237 to such other real property.
(3)
Attribution rules with respect to the holding of property.
The taxpayer is considered as holding property which he owns individually, jointly, or as a member of a partnership. He is not generally considered as holding property owned by members of his family, an estate or trust, or a corporation. See, however, paragraph (c)(5) (iv)(c) of this section for an exception to this rule. The purpose for which a prior owner held the lot or tract, or his activities, are immaterial except to the extent they indicate the purpose for which the taxpayer has held the lot or tract. See paragraph (d) of this section for rules relating to the determination of the period for which the property is held. The principles of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
A dealer in real property held a tract of land for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his business for 5 years. He then made a gift of it to his son. As a result of the operation of section 1223(2) the son will have held the property for the period of time required by section 1237. However, he will not qualify for the benefits of section 1237 because, there being no evidence to the contrary, the circumstances involved establish that the son holds the property for sale to customers, as did his father.
(c)
Disqualification arising from substantial improvements
—(1)
General rule.
Section 1237 will not apply if the taxpayer or certain others make improvements on the tract which are substantial and which substantially increase the value of the lot sold. Certain improvements are not substantial within the meaning of section 1237(a)(2) if they are necessary to make the lot marketable at the prevailing local price and meet the other conditions of section 1237(b)(3). See subparagraph (5) of this paragraph.
(2)
Improvements made or deemed to be made by the taxpayer.
Certain improvements made by the taxpayer or made under a contract of sale between the taxpayer and the buyer make section 1237 inapplicable.
(i) For the purposes of section 1237 (a)(2) the taxpayer is deemed to have made any improvements on the tract while he held it which are made by:
(
a
) The taxpayer's whole or half brothers and sisters, spouse, ancestors and lineal descendants.
(
b
) A corporation controlled by the taxpayer. A corporation is controlled by the taxpayer if he controls, as the result of direct ownership, constructive ownership, or otherwise, more than 50
percent of the corporation's voting stock.
(
c
) A partnership of which the taxpayer was a member at the time the improvements were made.
(
d
) A lessee if the improvement takes the place of a payment of rental income. See section 109 and the regulations thereunder.
(
e
) A Federal, State, or local government, or political subdivision thereof, if the improvement results in an increase in the taxpayer's basis for the property, as it would, for example, from a special tax assessment for paving streets.
(ii) The principles of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
A held a tract of land for 3 years during which he made substantial improvements thereon which substantially enhanced the value of every lot on the tract. A then made a gift of the tract to his son. The son made no further improvements on the tract but held it for 3 years and then sold several lots therefrom. The son is not entitled to the benefits of section 1237 since under section 1237(a)(2) he is deemed to have made the substantial improvements made by his father, and under section 1223(2) he is treated as having held the property for the period during which his father held it. Thus, the disqualifying improvements are deemed to have been made by the son while the tract was held by him. See paragraph (d) of this section for rules relating to the determination of the period for which the property is held.
(iii) The taxpayer is also charged with making any improvements made pursuant to a contract of sale entered into between the taxpayer and the buyer. Therefore, the buyer, as well as the taxpayer, may make improvements which prevent the application of section 1237.
(
a
) If a contract of sale obligates either the taxpayer or the buyer to make a substantial improvement which would substantially increase the value of the lot, the taxpayer may not claim the application of section 1237 unless the obligation to improve the lot ceases (for any reason other than that the improvement has been made) before or within the period, prescribed by section 6511, within which the taxpayer may file a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment of his tax on the gain from the sale of the lot. The following example illustrates this rule:

# Example:
In 1956, A sells several lots from a tract he has subdivided for sale. Section 1237 would apply to the sales of these lots except that in the contract of sale, A agreed to install sewers, hard surface roads, and other utilities which would increase the value of the lots substantially. If in 1957, instead of requiring the improvements, the buyer releases A from this obligation, A may then claim the application of section 1237 to the sale of lots in 1956 in computing his income tax for 1956, since the period of limitations in which A may file a claim for credit or refund of an overpayment of his 1956 income tax has not expired.
(
b
) An improvement is made pursuant to a contract if the contract imposes an obligation on either party to make the improvement, but not if the contract merely places restrictions on the improvements, if any, either party may make. The following example illustrates this rule:

# Example:
B sells several lots from a tract which he has subdivided. Each contract of sale prohibits the purchaser from building any structure on his lot except a personal residence costing $15,000 or more. Even if the purchasers build such residences, that does not preclude B from applying section 1237 to the sales of such lots, since the contracts did not obligate the purchasers to make any improvements.
(iv) Improvements made by a bona fide lessee (other than as rent) or by others not described in section 1237(a) (2) do not preclude the use of section 1237.
(3)
When improvements substantially enhance the value of the lot sold.
Before a substantial improvement will preclude the use of section 1237, it must substantially enhance the value of the lot sold.
(i) The increase in value to be considered is only the increase attributable to the improvement or improvements. Other changes in the market price of the lot, not arising from improvements made by the taxpayer, shall be disregarded. The difference between the value of the lot, including improvements, when the improvement has been completed and an appraisal of its value if unimproved at that time, will disclose the value added by the improvements.
(ii) Whether improvements have substantially increased the value of a lot depends upon the circumstances in each case. If improvements increase the value of a lot by 10 percent or less, such increase will not be considered as substantial, but if the value of the lot is increased by more than 10 percent, then all relevant factors must be considered to determine whether, under such circumstances, the increase is substantial.
(iii) Improvement may increase the value of some lots in a tract without equally affecting other lots in the same tract. Only the lots whose value was substantially increased are ineligible for application of the rule established by section 1237.
(4)
When an improvement is substantial.
To prevent the application of section 1237, the improvement itself must be substantial in character. Among the improvements considered substantial are shopping centers, other commercial or residential buildings, and the installation of hard surface roads or utilities such as sewers, water, gas, or electric lines. On the other hand a temporary structure used as a field office, surveying, filling, draining, leveling and clearing operations, and the construction of minimum all-weather access roads, including gravel roads where required by the climate, are not substantial improvements.
(5)
Special rules relating to substantial improvements.
Under certain conditions a taxpayer, including a corporation to which subdivision (iv) of this subparagraph applies, may obtain the benefits of section 1237 whether or not substantial improvements have been made. In addition, an individual taxpayer may, under certain circumstances elect to have substantial improvements treated as necessary and not substantial.
(i)
When an improvement is not considered substantial.
An improvement will not be considered substantial if all of the following conditions are met:
(
a
) The taxpayer has held the property for 10 years. The full 10-year period must elapse, whether or not the taxpayer inherited the property. Although the taxpayer must hold the property 10 years, he need not hold it for 10 years after subdividing it. See paragraph (d) of this section for rules relating to the determination of the period for which the property is held.
(
b
) The improvement consists of the building or installation of water, sewer, or drainage facilities (either surface, sub-surface, or both) or roads, including hard surface roads, curbs, and gutters.
(
c
) The district director with whom the taxpayer must file his return is satisfied that, without such improvement, the lot sold would not have brought the prevailing local price for similar building sites.
(
d
) The taxpayer elects, as provided in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph, not to adjust the basis of the lot sold or any other property held by him for any part of the cost of such improvement attributable to such lot and not to deduct any part of such cost as an expense.
(ii)
Meaning of similar building site.
A
similar building site
is any real property in the immediate vicinity whose size, terrain, and other characteristics are comparable to the taxpayer's property. For the purpose of determining whether a tract is marketable at the prevailing local price for similar building sites, the taxpayer shall furnish the district director with sufficient evidence to enable him to compare (
a
) the value of the taxpayer's property in an unimproved state with (
b
) the amount for which similar building sites, improved by the installation of water, sewer, or drainage facilities or roads, have recently been sold, reduced by the present cost of such improvements. Such comparison may be made and expressed in terms of dollars per square foot, dollars per acre, or dollars per front foot, or in any other suitable terms depending upon the practice generally followed by real estate dealers in the taxpayer's locality. The taxpayer shall also furnish evidence, where possible, of the best bona fide offer received for the tract or a lot thereof just before making the improvement, to assist the district director in determining the value of the tract or lot if it had been sold in its unimproved state. The operation of this subdivision and subdivision (i) of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A has been offered $500 per acre for a tract without roads, water, or sewer facilities which he has owned for 15 years. The adjacent tract has been subdivided and improved with water facilities and hard surface roads, and has sold for $4,000 per acre. The estimated cost of roads and water facilities on the adjacent tract is $2,500 per acre. The prevailing local price for similar building sites in the vicinity would be $1,500 per acre (i.e., $4,000 less $2,500). If A installed roads and water facilities at a cost of $2,500 per acre, his tract would sell for approximately $4,000 per acre. Under section 1237(b)(3) the installation of roads and water facilities does not constitute a substantial improvement if A elects to disregard the cost of such improvements ($2,500 per acre) in computing his cost or other basis for the lots sold from the tract, and in computing his basis for any other property owned by him.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) of this subdivision, except that A can obtain $1,600 per acre for his property without improvements. The installation of any substantial improvements would not constitute a necessary improvement under section 1237(b)(3), since the prevailing local price could have been obtained without any improvement.

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) of this subdivision, except that the adjacent tract has also been improved with sewer facilities, the present cost of which is $1,200 per acre. The installation of the substantial improvements would not constitute a necessary improvement under section 1237(b)(3) on A's part, since the prevailing local price ($4,000 less the sum of $1,200 plus $2,500, or $300) could have been obtained by A without any improvement.
(iii)
Manner of making election.
The election required by section 1237(b) (3)(C) shall be made as follows:
(
a
) The taxpayer shall submit:
(
1
) A plat showing the subdivision and all improvements attributable to him.
(
2
) A list of all improvements to the tract, showing:
(
i
) The cost of such improvements.
(
ii
) Which of the improvements, without regard to the election, he considers
substantial
and which he considers not
substantial.
(
iii
) Those improvements which are substantial to which the election is to apply, with a fair allocation of their cost to each lot they affect, and the amount by which they have increased the values of such lots.
(
iv
) The date on which each lot was acquired and its basis for determining gain or loss, exclusive of the cost of any improvements listed in subdivision (iii) of this subdivision.
(
3
) A statement that he will neither deduct as an expense nor add to the basis of any lot sold, or of any other property, any portion of the cost of any substantial improvement which substantially increased the value of any lot in the tract and which either he listed pursuant to (
a
)(
2
)(iii) of this subdivision or which the district director deems substantial.
(
b
) The election and the information required under (
a
) of this subdivision shall be submitted to the district director:
(
1
) With the taxpayer's income tax return for the taxable year in which the lots subject to the election were sold, or
(
2
) In the case of a return filed prior to August 14, 1957, either with a timely claim for refund, where the benefits of section 1237 have not been claimed on such return, or, independently, before November 13, 1957, where such benefits have been claimed, or
(
3
) If there is an obligation to make disqualifying improvements outstanding when the taxpayer files his return, with a formal claim for refund at the time of the release of the obligation, if it is then still possible to file a timely claim.
(
c
) Once made, the election as to the necessary improvement costs attributable to any lot sold shall be irrevocable and binding on the taxpayer unless the district director assesses an income tax as to such lot as if it were held for sale in the ordinary course of taxpayer's business. Under such circumstances, in computing gain, the cost or other basis shall be computed without regard to section 1237.
(iv)
Exceptions with respect to necessary
improvements and certain corporations. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 1954, individual taxpayers and certain corporations may obtain the benefits of section 1237 without complying with the provisions of subdivisions (i) (
c
) and (
d
), (ii), and (iii) of this subparagraph if the requirements of section 1237 are otherwise met and if:
(
a
) The property in question was acquired by the taxpayer through the foreclosure of a lien thereon,
(
b
) The lien foreclosed secured the payment of an indebtedness to the taxpayer or (in the case of a corporation) secured the payment of an indebtedness to a creditor who has transferred the foreclosure bid to the taxpayer in exchange for all of the stock of the corporation and other consideration, and
(
c
) In the case of a corporate taxpayer, no shareholder of the corporation holds real property for sale to customers in the ordinary course of his trade or business or holds a controlling interest in another corporation which actually so holds real property, or which, but for the application of this subdivision, would be considered to so hold real property.
Thus, in the case of such property, it is not necessary for the taxpayer to satisfy the district director that the property would not have brought the prevailing local price without improvements or to elect not to add the cost of the improvements to his basis. In addition, if 80 percent or more of the real property owned by a taxpayer is property to which this subdivision applies, the requirements of (
a
) and (
b
) of this subdivision need not be met with respect to property adjacent to such property which is also owned by the taxpayer.
(d)
Holding period required
—(1)
General rules.
To apply section 1237, the taxpayer must either have inherited the lot sold or have held it for 5 years. Generally, the provisions of section 1223 are applicable in determining the period for which the taxpayer has held the property. The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A held a tract of land for 3 years under circumstances otherwise qualifying for section 1237 treatment. He made a gift of the tract to B at a time when the fair market value of the tract exceeded A's basis for the tract. B held the tract for 2 more years under similar circumstances. B then sold 4 lots from the tract. B is entitled to the benefits of section 1237 since under section 1223(2) he held the lots for 5 years and all the other requirements of section 1237 are met.

# Example 2.
C purchased all the stock in a corporation in 1955. The corporation purchased an unimproved tract of land in 1957. In 1961 the corporation was liquidated under section 333 and C acquired the tract of land. For purposes of section 1237, C's holding period commenced on the date the corporation actually acquired the land in 1957 and not on the date C purchased the stock.
(2)
Rules relating to property acquired upon death.
If the taxpayer inherited the property there is no 5-year holding period required under section 1237. However, any holding period required by any other provision of the Code, such as section 1222, is nevertheless applicable. For purposes of section 1237, neither the survivor's one-half of community property, nor property acquired by survivorship in a joint tenancy, is property acquired by devise or inheritance. The holding period for the surviving joint tenant begins on the date the property was originally acquired.
(e)
Tax consequences if section 1237 applies
—(1)
Introductory.
Where there is no substantial evidence other than subdivision and related selling activities that real property is held for sale in the ordinary course of taxpayer's business and section 1237 applies, section 1237(b)(1) provides a special rule for computing taxable gain. For the relationship between sections 1237 and 1231, see paragraph (f) of this section.
(2)
Characterization of gain and its relation to selling expenses.
(i) When the taxpayer has sold less than 6 lots or parcels from the same tract up to the end of his taxable year, the entire gain will be capital gain. (Where the land is used in a trade or business, see paragraph (f) of this section.) In computing the number of lots or parcels sold, two or more contiguous lots sold to a single buyer in a single sale will be counted as only one parcel. The following example illustrates this rule:

# Example:
A meets all the conditions of section 1237 in subdividing and selling a single tract. In 1956 he sells 4 lots to B, C, D, and E. In the same year F buys 3 adjacent lots. Since A has sold only 5 lots or parcels from the tract, any gain A realizes on the sales will be capital gain.
(ii) If the taxpayer has sold the sixth lot or parcel from the same tract within the taxable year, then the amount, if any, by which 5 percent of the selling price of each lot exceeds the expenses incurred in connection with its sale or
exchange, shall, to the extent it represents gain, be ordinary income. Any part of the gain not treated as ordinary income will be treated as capital gain. (Where the land is used in a trade or business, see paragraph (f) of this section.) Five percent of the selling price of each lot sold from the tract in the taxable year the sixth lot is sold and thereafter is, to the extent it represents gain, considered ordinary income. However, all expenses of sale of the lot are to be deducted first from the 5 percent of the gain which would otherwise be considered ordinary income, and any remainder of such expenses shall reduce the gain upon the sale or exchange which would otherwise be considered capital gain. Such expenses cannot be deducted as ordinary business expenses from other income. The 5-percent rule applies to all lots sold from the tract in the year the sixth lot or parcel is sold. Thus, if the taxpayer sells the first 6 lots of a single tract in one year, 5 percent of the selling price of each lot sold shall be treated as ordinary income and reduced by the selling expenses. On the other hand, if the taxpayer sells the first 3 lots of a single tract in 1955, and the next 3 lots in 1956, only the gain realized from the sales made in 1956 shall be so treated. For the effect of a 5-year interval between sales, see paragraph (g)(2) of this section. The operation of this subdivision may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Assume the selling price of the sixth lot of a tract is $10,000, the basis of the lot in the hands of the taxpayer is $5,000, and the expenses of sale are $750. The amount of gain realized by the taxpayer is $4,250, of which the amount of ordinary income attributable to the sale is zero, computed as follows:
Selling price
$10,000
Basis
5,000
Excess over basis
5,000
5 percent of selling price
500
Expenses of sale
750
Amount of gain realized treated as ordinary income
0
Excess over basis
5,000
5 percent of selling price
500
Excess of expenses over 5 percent of selling price
250
750
Amount of gain realized from sale of property not held for sale in ordinary course of business
4,250

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in Example 1, except that the expenses of sale of such sixth lot are $300. The amount of gain realized by the taxpayer is $4,700, of which the amount of ordinary income attributable to the sale is $200, computed as follows:
Selling price
$10,000
Basis
5,000
Excess over basis
5,000
5 percent of selling price
$500
Expenses of sale
300
Amount of gain realized treated as ordinary income
200
Excess over basis
5,000
5 percent of selling price
500
Excess of expenses over 5 percent of selling price
0
500
Amount of gain realized from sale of property not held for sale in ordinary course of business
4,500
(iii) In the case of an exchange, the term
selling price
shall mean the fair market value of property received plus any sum of money received in exchange for the lot. See section 1031 for those exchanges in which no gain is recognized. For the purpose of subsections (b) and (c) of section 1237 and paragraphs (e) and (g) of this section, an exchange shall be treated as a sale or exchange whether or not gain or loss is recognized with respect to such exchange.
(f)
Relationship of section 1237 and section 1231.
Application of section 1237 to a sale of real property may, in some cases, result in the property being treated as real property used in the trade or business, as described in section 1231(b)(1). Thus, assuming section 1237 is otherwise applicable, if the lot sold would be considered property described in section 1231(b)(1) except for the fact that the taxpayer subdivided the tract of which it was a part, then evidence of such subdivision and connected sales activities shall be disregarded and the lot sold shall be considered real property used in the trade or business. Under such circumstances, any gain or loss realized from the sale shall be treated as gain or loss arising from the sale of real property used in the trade or business.
(g)
Definition of tract
—(1)
Aggregation of properties.
For the purposes of section 1237, the term
tract
means either (i) a single piece of real property or (ii) two or more pieces of real property if they were contiguous at any time while held by the taxpayer, or would have been contiguous but for the interposition of a road, street, railroad, stream, or similar property. Properties are contiguous if their boundaries meet at one or more points. The single piece of contiguous properties need not have been conveyed by a single deed. The taxpayer may have assembled them over a period of time and may hold them separately, jointly, or as a partner, or in any combination of such forms of ownership.
(2)
When a subdivision will be considered a new tract.
If the taxpayer sells or exchanges no lots from the tract for a period of 5 years after the sale or exchange of at least 1 lot in the tract, then the remainder of the tract shall be deemed a new tract for the purpose of counting the number of lots sold from the same tract under section 1237(b)(1). The pieces in the new tract need not be contiguous. The 5-year period is measured between the dates of the sales or exchanges.
(h)
Effective date.
This section shall apply only to gain realized on sales made after December 31, 1953, or, in the case of a person meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(iv) of this section, if the sale of the lot occurs in a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1954. Pursuant to section 7851(a)(1)(C), the regulations prescribed in this section (other than subdivision (iv) of paragraph (c)(5)) shall also apply to taxable years beginning before January 1, 1954, and ending after December 31, 1953, and to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1953, and ending before August 17, 1954, although such years are subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939. Irrespective of whether the taxable year involved is subject to the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 or the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, sales or exchanges made before January 1, 1954, shall be taken into account to determine whether: (1) No sales or exchanges have been made for 5 years, under section 1237(c), and (2) more than 5 lots or parcels have been sold or exchanged from the same tract, under section 1237(b)(1). Thus, if the taxpayer sold 5 lots from a single tract in 1950, and another lot is sold in 1954, the lot sold in 1954 constitutes the
sixth lot
sold from the original tract. On the other hand, if the first 5 lots were sold in 1948, the sale made in 1954 shall be deemed to have been made from a new tract.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12016, Nov. 26, 1960]
§ 1.1238-1
Amortization in excess of depreciation.
(a)
In general.
Section 1238 provides that if a taxpayer is entitled to a deduction for amortization of an emergency facility under section 168, and if the facility is later sold or exchanged, any gain realized shall be considered as ordinary income to the extent that the amortization deduction exceeds normal depreciation. Thus, under section 1238 gain from a sale or exchange of property shall be considered as ordinary income to the extent that its adjusted basis is less than its adjusted basis would be if it were determined without regard to section 168. If an entire facility is certified under section 168(e), the taxpayer may use allowances for depreciation based on any rate and method which would have been proper if the basis of the facility were not subject to amortization under section 168, in determining what the adjusted basis of the facility would be if it were determined without regard to section 168. If only a portion of a facility is certified under section 168(e), allowances for depreciation based on the rate and method properly used with respect to the uncertified part of the facility are used in determining what the adjusted basis of the facility would be if it were determined without regard to section 168. The principles of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On December 31, 1954, a taxpayer making his income tax returns on a calendar year basis acquires at a cost of $20,000 an emergency facility (used in his business) 50 percent of the adjusted basis of which has been certified under section 168(e). The facility would normally have a useful life of 20 years and a salvage value of $2,000 allocable equally between the certified and uncertified portions. Under section 168 the taxpayer
elects to begin the 60-month amortization period on January 1, 1955. He takes amortization deductions with respect to the certified portion in the amount of $4,000 for the years 1955 and 1956 (24 months). On December 31, 1956, he sells the facility for a price of $19,000 which is allocable equally between the certified and uncertified portions. The adjusted basis of the certified portion on that date is $6,000 ($10,000 cost, less $4,000 amortization). With respect to the uncertified portion, the straight line method of depreciation is used and a deduction for depreciation in the amount of $450 is claimed and allowed for the year 1955. The adjusted basis of the uncertified portion on January 1, 1956, is $9,550 ($10,000 cost, less $450 depreciation). The depreciation allowance for the uncertified portion for the year 1956 would be limited to $50, the amount by which the adjusted basis of such portion at the beginning of the year exceeded its aliquot portion of the sales price. Thus, on December 31, 1956, the adjusted basis of the uncertified portion would be $9,500. Without regard to section 168, and using the rate and method the taxpayer properly applied to the uncertified portion of the facility, the adjusted basis of the certified portion on December 31, 1956, would be $9,500, computed in the same manner as the adjusted basis of the uncertified portion. The difference between the facility's actual adjusted basis ($15,500) and its adjusted basis determined without regard to section 168 ($19,000), is $3,500. Accordingly, the entire $3,500 gain on the sale of the facility ($19,000 sale price, less $15,500 adjusted basis) is treated as ordinary income.

# Example 2.
Assume that the entire facility in example (1) had been certified under section 168(e) and that, therefore, the adjusted basis of the facility on December 31, 1956, is $12,000. Assume further that the taxpayer adopts straight line depreciation as a proper method of depreciation for determining the adjusted basis of the facility without regard to section 168. Thus, the adjusted basis, without regard to section 168, would be $19,000. This amount is $7,000 more than the $12,000 adjusted basis under section 168. Hence, the entire $7,000 gain on the sale of the facility ($19,000 sale price less $12,000 adjusted basis) is treated as ordinary income.
(b)
Substituted basis.
If a taxpayer acquires other property in an exchange for an emergency facility with respect to which amortization deductions have been allowed or allowable, and if the basis in his hands of the other property is determined by reference to the basis of the emergency facility, then the basis of the other property is determined with regard to section 168, and therefore the provisions of section 1238 apply with respect to gain realized on a subsequent sale or exchange of the other property. The provisions of section 1238 also apply to gain realized on the sale or exchange of an emergency facility (or other property acquired, as described in the preceding sentence, in exchange for an emergency facility) by a taxpayer in whose hands the basis of the facility (or other property) is determined by reference to its basis in the hands of another person to whom deductions were allowable or allowed with respect to the facility under section 168.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12020, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 6825, 30 FR 7281, June 2, 1965]
§ 1.1239-1
Gain from sale or exchange of depreciable property between certain related taxpayers after October 4, 1976.
(a)
In general.
In the case of a sale or exchange of property, directly or indirectly, between related persons after October 4, 1976 (other than a sale or exchange made under a binding contract entered into on or before that date), any gain recognized by the transferor shall be treated as ordinary income if such property is, in the hands of the transferee, subject to the allowance for depreciation provided in section 167. This rule also applies to property which would be subject to the allowance for depreciation provided in section 167 except that the purchaser has elected a different form of deduction, such as those allowed under sections 169, 188, and 191.
(b)
Related persons.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, the term
related persons
means:
(1) A husband and wife,
(2) An individual and a corporation 80 percent or more in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by or for such individual, or
(3) Two or more corporations 80 percent or more in value of the outstanding stock of each of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by or for the same individual.
(c)
Rules of construction
—(1)
Husband and wife.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if on the date of the sale or exchange a taxpayer is legally separated from his spouse under
an interlocutory decree of divorce, the taxpayer and his spouse shall not be treated as husband and wife, provided the sale or exchange is made pursuant to the decree and the decree subsequently becomes final. Thus, if pursuant to an interlocutory decree of divorce, an individual transfers depreciable property to his spouse and, because of this section, the gain recognized on the transfer of the property is treated as ordinary income, the individual may, if the interlocutory decree becomes final after his tax return has been filed, file a claim for a refund.
(2)
Sales between commonly controlled corporations.
In general, in the case of a sale or exchange of depreciable property between related corporations (within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3) of this section), gain which is treated as ordinary income by reason of this section shall be taxable to the transferor corporation rather than to a controlling shareholder. However, such gain shall be treated as ordinary income taxable to a controlling shareholder rather than the transferor corporation if the transferor corporation is used by a controlling shareholder as a mere conduit to make a sale to another controlled corporation, or the entity of the corporate transferor is otherwise properly disregarded for tax purposes. Sales between two or more corporations that are related within the meaning of paragraph (b)(3) of this section may also be subject to the rules of section 482 (relating to allocation of income between or among organizations, trades, or businesses which are commonly owned or controlled), and to rules requiring constructive dividend treatment to the controlling shareholder in appropriate circumstances.
(3)
Relationship determination for transfers made after January 6, 1983—taxpayer and an 80-percent owned entity.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section with respect to transfers made after January 6, 1983—
(i) If the transferor is an entity, the transferee and such entity are related if the entity is an 80-percent owned entity with respect to such transferee either immediately before or immediately after the sale or exchange of depreciable property, and
(ii) If the transferor is not an entity, the transferee and such transferor are related if the transferee is an 80-percent owned entity with respect to such transferor immediately after the sale or exchange of depreciable property.
(4)
Relationship determination for transfers made after January 6, 1983—two 80-percent owned entities.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, with respect to transfers made after January 6, 1983, two entities are related if the same shareholder both owns 80 percent or more in value of the stock of the transferor before the sale or exchange of depreciable property and owns 80 percent or more in value of the stock of the transferee immediately after the sale or exchange of depreciable property.
(5)
Ownership of stock.
For purposes of determining the ownership of stock under this section, the constructive ownership rules of section 318 shall be applied, except that section 318(a)(2)(C) (relating to attribution of stock ownership from a corporation) and section 318(a)(3)(C) (relating to attribution of stock ownership to a corporation) shall be applied without regard to the 50-percent limitation contained therein. The application of the constructive ownership rules of section 318 to section 1239 is illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A, an individual, owns 79 percent of the stock (by value) of Corporation X, and a trust for A's children owns the remaining 21 percent of the stock. A's children are deemed to own the stock owned for their benefit by the trust in proportion to their actuarial interests in the trust (section 318(a)(2)(B)). A, in turn, constructively owns the stock so deemed to be owned by his children (section 318(a)(1)(A)(ii)). Thus, A is treated as owning all the stock of Corporation X, and any gain A recognizes from the sale of depreciable property to Corporation X is treated under section 1239 as ordinary income.

# Example 2.
Y Corporation owns 100 percent in value of the stock of Z Corporation. Y Corporation sells depreciable property at a gain to Z Corporation. P and his daughter, D, own 80 percent in value of the Y Corporation stock. Under the constructive ownership rules of section 318, as applied to section 1239, P and D are each considered to own the stock in Z Corporation owned by Y Corporation. Also, P and D are each considered to own the stock in Y Corporation owned by the
other. As a result, both P and D constructively own 80 percent or more in value of the stock of both Y and Z Corporations. Thus, the sale between Y and Z is governed by section 1239 and produces ordinary income to Y.
[T.D. 7569, 43 FR 51388, Nov. 3, 1978, as amended by T.D. 8106, 51 FR 42835, Nov. 26, 1986]
§ 1.1239-2
Gain from sale or exchange of depreciable property between certain related taxpayers on or before October 4, 1976.
Section 1239 provides in general that any gain from the sale or exchange of depreciable property between a husband and wife or between an individual and a controlled corporation on or before October 4, 1976 (and in the case of a sale or exchange occurring after that date if made under a binding contract entered into on or before that date), shall be treated as ordinary income. Thus, any gain recognized to the transferor from a sale or exchange after May 3, 1951, and on or before October 4, 1976 (or thereafter if pursuant to a binding contract entered into on or before that date), directly or indirectly, between a husband and wife or between an individual and a controlled corporation, of property which, in the hands of the transferee, is property of a character subject to an allowance for depreciation provided in section 167 (including such property on which a deduction for amortization is allowable under sections 168 and 169) shall be considered as gain from the sale or exchange of property which is neither a capital asset nor property described in section 1231. For the purpose of section 1239, a corporation is controlled when more than 80 percent in value of all outstanding stock of the corporation is beneficially owned by the taxpayer, his spouse, and his minor children and minor grandchildren. For the purpose of this section, the terms
children
and
grandchildren
include legally adopted children and their children. The provisions of section 1239(a)(2) are applicable whether property is transferred from a corporation to a shareholder or from a shareholder to a corporation.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12021, Nov. 26, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7569, 43 FR 51388, Nov. 3, 1978]
§ 1.1240-1
Capital gains treatment of certain termination payments.
Any amounts received by an employee for the assignment or release of all his rights to receive, after termination of his employment and for a period of not less than five years or for a period ending with his death, a percentage of the profits or receipts of his employer attributable to a time subsequent to such termination, are considered received from the sale or exchange of a capital asset held for more than six months if the following requirements are met:
(a) The employee was employed by the employer, in whose future profits or receipts the employee had an interest, for a period of more than 20 years before the assignment or release by the employee of his rights in such future profits or receipts,
(b) The full rights of the employee to the percentage of the future profits or receipts on such employer, which rights are the subject of the assignment or release, were incorporated in the terms of the contract of employment between the employee and the employer for a period of at least 12 years, and were so incorporated before August 16, 1954,
(c) The assignment or release was made after the termination of the employee's employment with such employer,
(d) The assignment or release conveyed all the rights of the employee in the future profits or receipts of such employer and conveyed no other rights of the employee, and
(e) The total amount to which the employee became entitled pursuant to the assignment or release was received by the employee after the termination of his employment with such employer and in one taxable year of the employee.
The requirement that the assignment or release be made after the termination of the employee's employment contemplates a complete and bona fide termination of the relationship of employer and employee. This requires more than a mere termination of such relationship under the particular contract or contracts of employment pursuant to which the employee acquired
his rights in the future profits or receipts of the employer. The contract need not expressly provide that the employee shall share in the future profits or receipts of the employer for a minimum period of five years. However, if the contract does not expressly so provide and the assignment or release is made before the expiration of five years following the termination of employment, the terms of the contract considered in conjunction with the facts in the particular situation must establish that the rights of the employee to a percentage of future profits or receipts, in all probability, will extend to a period of not less than five years from the date of termination of employment or for a period ending with his death. Section 1240 has application only to an assignment or release made by the employee who acquired the right to a percentage of future profits or receipts of the employer, and has no application to amounts received other than as payment for assignment or release of such right. Section 1240 has no effect upon the determination of the income tax of the employer making the payment to the employee.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12021, Nov. 26, 1960]
§ 1.1241-1
Cancellation of lease or distributor's agreement.
(a)
In general.
Section 1241 provides that proceeds received by lessees or distributors from the cancellation of leases or of certain distributorship agreements are considered as amounts received in exchange therefor. Section 1241 applies to leases of both real and personal property. Distributorship agreements to which section 1241 applies are described in paragraph (c) of this section. Section 1241 has no application in determining whether or not a cancellation not qualifying under that section is a sale or exchange. Further, section 1241 has no application in determining whether or not a lease or a distributorship agreement is a capital asset, even though its cancellation qualifies as an exchange under section 1241.
(b)
Definition of cancellation.
The term
cancellation
of a lease or a distributor's agreement, as used in section 1241, means a termination of all the contractual rights of a lessee or distributor with respect to particular premises or a particular distributorship, other than by the expiration of the lease or agreement in accordance with its terms. A payment made in good faith for a partial cancellation of a lease or a distributorship agreement is recognized as an amount received for cancellation under section 1241 if the cancellation relates to a severable economic unit, such as a portion of the premises covered by a lease, a reduction in the unexpired term of a lease or distributorship agreement, or a distributorship in one of several areas or of one of several products. Payments made for other modifications of leases or distributorship agreements, however, are not recognized as amounts received for cancellation under section 1241.
(c)
Amounts received upon cancellation of a distributorship agreement.
Section 1241 applies to distributorship agreements only if they are for marketing or marketing and servicing of goods. It does not apply to agreements for selling intangible property or for rendering personal services as, for example, agreements establishing insurance agencies or agencies for the brokerage of securities. Further, it applies to a distributorship agreement only if the distributor has made a substantial investment of capital in the distributorship. The substantial capital investment must be reflected in physical assets such as inventories of tangible goods, equipment, machinery, storage facilities, or similar property. An investment is not considered substantial for purposes of section 1241 unless it consists of a significant fraction or more of the facilities for storing, transporting, processing, or otherwise dealing with the goods distributed, or consists of a substantial inventory of such goods. The investment required in the maintenance of an office merely for clerical operations is not considered substantial for purposes of this section. Furthermore, section 1241 shall not apply unless a substantial amount of the capital or assets needed for carrying on the operations of a distributorship are acquired by the distributor and actually used in carrying on the distributorship at some time before the cancellation of the distributorship agreement. It is immaterial for the
purposes of section 1241 whether the distributor acquired the assets used in performing the functions of the distributorship before or after beginning his operations under the distributorship agreement. It is also immaterial whether the distributor is a retailer, wholesaler, jobber, or other type of distributor. The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Taxpayer is a distributor of various food products. He leases a warehouse including cold storage facilities and owns a number of motor trucks. In 1955 he obtains the exclusive rights to market certain frozen food products in his State. The marketing is accomplished by using the warehouse and trucks acquired before he entered into the agreement and entails no additional capital. Payments received upon the cancellation of the agreement are treated under section 1241 as though received upon the sale or exchange of the agreement.

# Example 2.
Assume that the taxpayer in example (1) entered into an exclusive distributorship agreement with the producer under which the taxpayer merely solicits orders through his staff of salesmen, the goods being shipped direct to the purchasers. Payments received upon the cancellation of the agreement would not be treated under section 1241 as though received upon the sale or exchange of the agreement.

# Example 3.
Taxpayer is an exclusive distributor for M city of certain frozen food products which he distributes to frozen-food freezer and locker customers. The terms of his distributorship do not make it necessary for him to have any substantial investment in inventory. Taxpayer rents a loading platform for a nominal amount, but has no warehouse space. Orders for goods from customers are consolidated by the taxpayer and forwarded to the producer from time to time. Upon receipt of these goods, taxpayer allocates them to the individual orders of customers and delivers them immediately by truck. Although it would require a fleet of fifteen or twenty trucks to carry out this operation, the distributor uses only one truck of his own and hires cartage companies to deliver the bulk of the merchandise to the customers. Payments received upon the cancellation of the distributorship agreement in such a case would not be considered received upon the sale or exchange of the agreement under section 1241 since the taxpayer does not have facilities for the physical handling of more than a small fraction of the goods involved in carrying on the distributorship and, therefore, does not have a substantial capital investment in the distributorship. On the other hand, if the taxpayer had acquired and used a substantial number of the trucks necessary for the deliveries to his customers, payments received upon the cancellation of the agreement would be considered received in exchange therefor under section 1241.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12021, Nov. 26, 1960]
§ 1.1242-1
Losses on small business investment company stock.
(a)
In general.
Any taxpayer who sustains a loss for a taxable year beginning after September 2, 1958, as a result of the worthlessness, or from the sale or exchange, of the stock of a small business investment company (whether or not such stock was originally issued to such taxpayer) shall treat such loss as a loss from the sale or exchange of property which is not a capital asset, if at the time of such loss:
(1) The company which issued the stock is licensed to operate as a small business investment company pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Small Business Administration (13 CFR part 107), and
(2) Such loss would, but for the provisions of section 1242, be a loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset.
(b)
Treatment of losses for purposes of section 172.
For the purposes of section 172 (relating to the net operating loss deduction), any amount of loss treated by reason of section 1242 as a loss from the sale or exchange of property which is not a capital asset shall be treated as attributable to the trade or business of the taxpayer. Accordingly, the limitation of section 172(d)(4) on the allowance of nonbusiness deductions in computing a net operating loss shall not apply to any loss with respect to the stock of a small business investment company as described in paragraph (a) of this section. See section 172(d) and § 1.172-3.
(c)
Statement to be filed with return.
A taxpayer claiming a deduction for a loss on the stock of a small business investment company shall file with his income tax return a statement containing: The name and address of the small business investment company which issued the stock, the number of shares, basis, and selling price of the stock with respect to which the loss is claimed, the respective dates of purchase and sale of such stock, or the reason for its worthlessness and approximate date thereof. For the rules
applicable in determining the worthlessness of securities, see section 165 and the regulations thereunder.
[T.D. 6500, 25 FR 12022, Nov. 26, 1960]
§ 1.1243-1
Loss of small business investment company.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Taxable years beginning after July 11, 1969.
For taxable years beginning after July 11, 1969, a small business investment company to which section 582(c) applies, and which sustains a loss as a result of the worthlessness, or on the sale or exchange, of the stock of a small business concern (as defined in section 103(5) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended (15 U.S.C. 662(5)) and in 13 CFR 107.3), shall treat such loss as a loss from the sale or exchange of property which is not a capital asset if:
(i) The stock was issued pursuant to the conversion privilege of the convertible debentures acquired in accordance with the provisions of section 304 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 684) and the regulations thereunder.
(ii) Such loss would, but for the provisions of section 1243, be a loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset, and
(iii) At the time of the loss, the company is licensed to operate as a small business investment company pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Small Business Administration (13 CFR part 107).
If section 582(c) does not apply for the taxable year, see subparagraph (2) of this paragraph.
(2)
Taxable years beginning before July 11, 1974.
For taxable years beginning after September 2, 1958, but before July 11, 1974, a small business investment company to which section 582(c) does not apply, and which sustains a loss as a result of the worthlessness, or on the sale or exchange, of the securities of a small business concern (as defined in section 103(5) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended (15 U.S.C. 662(5)) and in 13 CFR 107.3), shall treat such loss as a loss from the sale or exchange of property which is not a capital asset if:
(i) The securities are either the convertible debentures, or the stock issued pursuant to the conversion privilege thereof, acquired in accordance with the provisions of section 304 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 684) and the regulations thereunder.
(ii) Such loss would, but for the provisions of this subparagraph, be a loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset, and
(iii) At the time of the loss, the company is licensed to operate as a small business investment company pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Small Business Administration (13 CFR part 107).
If section 582(c) applies for the taxable year, see subparagraph (1) of this paragraph.
(b)
Material to be filed with return.
A small business investment company which claims a deduction for a loss on the convertible debentures (pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section) or stock (pursuant to paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section) of a small business concern shall submit with its income tax return a statement that it is a Federal licensee under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. chapter 14B). The statement shall also set forth: the name and address of the small business concern with respect to whose securities the loss was sustained, the number of shares of stock or the number and denomination of debentures with respect to which the loss is claimed, the basis and selling price thereof, and the respective dates of purchase and sale of the securities, or the reason for their worthlessness and the approximate date thereof. For the rules applicable in determining the worthlessness of securities, see section 165 and the regulations thereunder.
[T.D. 7171, 37 FR 5621, Mar. 17, 1972]
§ 1.1244(a)-1
Loss on small business stock treated as ordinary loss.
(a)
In general.
Subject to certain conditions and limitations, section 1244 provides that a loss on the sale or exchange (including a transaction treated as a sale or exchange, such as worthlessness) of
section 1244 stock
which would otherwise be treated as a loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset shall be treated as a loss from the sale or exchange of an asset which is not a capital asset (referred to in this
section and §§ 1.1244(b)-1 to 1.1244(e)-1, inclusive, as an
ordinary loss
). Such a loss shall be allowed as a deduction from gross income in arriving at adjusted gross income. The requirements that must be satisfied in order that stock may be considered section 1244 stock are described in §§ 1.1244(c)-1 and 1.1244(c)-2. These requirements relate to the stock itself and the corporation issuing such stock. In addition, the taxpayer who claims an ordinary loss deduction pursuant to section 1244 must satisfy the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Taxpayers entitled to ordinary loss.
The allowance of an ordinary loss deduction for a loss of section 1244 stock is permitted only to the following two classes of taxpayers:
(1) An individual sustaining the loss to whom the stock was issued by a small business corporation, or
(2) An individual who is a partner in a partnership at the time the partnership acquired the stock in an issuance from a small business corporation and whose distributive share of partnership items reflects the loss sustained by the partnership. The ordinary loss deduction is limited to the lesser of the partner's distributive share at the time of the issuance of the stock or the partner's distributive share at the time the loss is sustained. In order to claim a deduction under section 1244 the individual, or the partnership, sustaining the loss must have continuously held the stock from the date of issuance. A corporation, trust, or estate is not entitled to ordinary loss treatment under section 1244 regardless of how the stock was acquired. An individual who acquires stock from a shareholder by purchase, gift, devise, or in any other manner is not entitled to an ordinary loss under section 1244 with respect to this stock.
Thus, ordinary loss treatment is not available to a partner to whom the stock is distributed by the partnership. Stock acquired through an investment banking firm, or other person, participating in the sale of an issue may qualify for ordinary loss treatment only if the stock is not first issued to the firm or person. Thus, for example, if the firm acts as a selling agent for the issuing corporation the stock may qualify. On the other hand, stock purchased by an investment firm and subsequently resold does not qualify as section 1244 stock in the hands of the person acquiring the stock from the firm.
(c)
Examples.
The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A and B, both individuals, and C, a trust, are equal partners in a partnership to which a small business corporation issues section 1244 stock. The partnership sells the stock at a loss. A's and B's distributive share of the loss may be treated as an ordinary loss pursuant to section 1244, but C's distributive share of the loss may not be so treated.

# Example 2.
The facts are the same as in example (1) except that the section 1244 stock is distributed by the partnership to partner A and he subsequently sells the stock at a loss. Section 1244 is not applicable to the loss since A did not acquire the stock by issuance from the small business corporation.
[T.D. 6495, 25 FR 9675, Oct. 8, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7779, 46 FR 29467, June 2, 1981]
§ 1.1244(b)-1
Annual limitation.
(a)
In general.
Subsection (b) of section 1244 imposes a limitation on the aggregate amount of loss that for any taxable year may be treated as an ordinary loss by a taxpayer by reason of that section. In the case of a partnership, the limitation is determined separately as to each partner. Any amount of loss in excess of the applicable limitation is treated as loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset.
(b)
Amount of loss
—(1)
Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1978.
For any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1978, the maximum amount that may be treated as an ordinary loss under section 1244 is:
(i) $50,000, or
(ii) $100,000, if a husband and wife file a joint return under section 6013.
These limitations on the maximum amount of ordinary loss apply whether the loss or losses are sustained on pre-November 1978 stock (as defined in § 1.1244 (c)-1 (a)(1)), post-November 1978 stock (as defined in § 1.1244 (c)-1 (a)(2)), or on any combination of pre-November 1978 stock and post-November 1978 stock. The limitation referred to in (ii) applies to a joint return whether the
loss or losses are sustained by one or both spouses.
(2)
Taxable years ending before November 6, 1978.
For any taxable year ending before November 6, 1978, the maximum amount that may be treated as an ordinary loss under section 1244 is:
(i) $25,000 or
(ii) $50,000, if a husband and wife file a joint return under section 6013.
The limitation referred to in (ii) applies to a joint return whether the loss or losses are sustained by one or both spouses.
(3)
Taxable years including November 6, 1978.
For a taxable year including November 6, 1978, the maximum amount that may be treated as ordinary loss under section 1244 is the sum of:
(i) The amount calculated by applying the limitations described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (b) to the amount of loss, if any, sustained during the taxable year on post-November 1978 stock, plus
(ii) The amount calculated by applying the limitations described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (b) to the amount of loss, if any, sustained during the taxable year on pre-November 1978 stock,
To the extent this sum does not exceed $50,000, or, if a husband and wife file a joint return under section 6013 for the taxable year, $100,000.
(4)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A, a married taxpayer who files a joint return for the taxable year ending December 31, 1977, sustains a $50,000 loss qualifying under section 1244 on pre-November 1978 stock in Corporation X and an equal amount of loss qualifying under section 1244 on pre-November 1978 stock in Corporation Y. A is limited to $50,000 of ordinary loss under paragraph (b)(2)(ii). The remaining $50,000 of loss is treated as loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset.

# Example 2.
For the taxable year ending December 31, 1979, B, a married taxpayer who files a joint return, sustains a $90,000 loss on post-November 1978 stock in Corporation X. In the same taxable year, C, B's spouse, sustains a $25,000 loss on post-November 1978 stock in Corporation Y. Both losses qualify under section 1244. B and C's ordinary loss is limited to $100,000 under paragraph (b)(1)(ii). The remaining $15,000 of loss is treated as loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset.

# Example 3.
D, a married taxpayer who files a joint return and reports income on a fiscal year basis for the taxable year ending November 30, 1978, sustains a $60,000 loss qualifying under section 1244 on pre-November 1978 stock and a $40,000 loss qualifying under section 1244 on post-November 1978 stock. D's ordinary loss on pre-November 1978 stock is limited to $50,000 under subparagraph (3)(ii) of this paragraph (b). D's $40,000 loss on post-November 1978 stock is within the limit of subparagraph (3)(i) of this paragraph (b). The total of these losses, $90,000, is the aggregate amount deductible by D as ordinary loss under section 1244. The remaining $10,000 of loss is treated as loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset.

# Example 4.
E, a married taxpayer who files a joint return for the taxable year ending December 31, 1980, sustains a $75,000 loss qualifying under section 1244 on pre-November 1978 stock and a $10,000 loss qualifying under section 1244 on post-November 1978 stock. E may deduct the total of these losses, $85,000, as ordinary loss under paragraph (b)(1)(ii).

# Example 5.
Assume the same facts as in the preceding example, except that the losses are sustained in the taxable year beginning January 1, 1978, and ending December 31, 1978. E is limited to $60,000 of ordinary loss ($50,000 on pre-November 1978 stock plus $10,000 on post-November 1978 stock) under paragraph (b)(3). The remaining $25,000 of loss is treated as loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset.

# Example 6.
F, a married taxpayer who files a joint return for the taxable year beginning January 1, 1978, and ending December 31, 1978, sustains a $75,000 loss qualifying under section 1244 on pre-November 1978 stock and a $125,000 loss qualifying under section 1244 on post-November 1978 stock. F's loss on pre-November 1978 stock is limited to $50,000 of ordinary loss under subparagraph (3)(ii) of this paragraph (b). F's loss on post-November 1978 stock is limited to $100,000 of ordinary loss under subparagraph (3)(i) of this paragraph (b). The total of these losses, $150,000, is limited to $100,000 of ordinary loss under paragraph (b)(3). F's aggregate amount of ordinary loss under section 1244 is $100,000. The remaining $100,000 of loss is treated as loss from the sale or exchange of a capital asset.
[T.D. 7779, 46 FR 29467, June 2, 1981]
§ 1.1244(c)-1
Section 1244 stock defined.
(a)
In general.
For purposes of §§ 1.1244(a)-1 to 1.1244(e)-1, inclusive:
(1) The term
pre-November 1978 stock
means stock issued after June 30, 1958, and on or before November 6, 1978.
(2) The term
post-November 1978 stock
means stock issued after November 6, 1978.
In order that stock may qualify as section 1244 stock, the requirements described in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section must be satisfied. In addition, the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section must be satisfied in the case of pre-November 1978 stock. Whether these requirements have been met is determined at the time the stock is issued, except for the requirement in paragraph (e) of this section. Whether the requirement in paragraph (e) of this section, relating to gross receipts of the corporation, has been satisfied is determined at the time a loss is sustained. Therefore, at the time of issuance it cannot be said with certainty that stock will qualify for the benefits of section 1244.
(b)
Common stock.
Only common stock, either voting or nonvoting, in a domestic corporation may qualify as section 1244 stock. For purposes of section 1244, neither securities of the corporation convertible into common stock nor common stock convertible into other securities of the corporation are treated as common stock. An increase in the basis of outstanding stock as a result of a contribution to capital is not treated as an issuance of stock under section 1244. For definition of domestic corporation, see section 7701(a)(4) and the regulations under that section.
(c)
Small business corporation.
At the time the stock is issued (or, in the case of pre-November 1978 stock, at the time of adoption of the plan described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section) the corporation must be a
small business corporation.
See § 1.1244(c)-2 for the definition of a small business corporation.
(d)
Issued for money or other property.
(1) The stock must be issued to the taxpayer for money or other property transferred by the taxpayer to the corporation. However, stock issued in exchange for stock or securities, including stock or securities of the issuing corporation, cannot qualify as section 1244 stock, except as provided in § 1.1244(d)-3, relating to certain cases where stock is issued in exchange for section 1244 stock. Stock issued for services rendered or to be rendered to, or for the benefit of, the issuing corporation does not qualify as section 1244 stock. Stock issued in consideration for cancellation of indebtedness of the corporation shall be considered issued in exchange for money or other property unless such indebtedness is evidenced by a security, or arises out of the performance of personal services.
(2) The following examples illustrate situations where stock fails to qualify as section 1244 stock as a result of the rules in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph:

# Example 1.
A taxpayer owns stock of Corporation X issued to him prior to July 1, 1958. Under a plan adopted in 1977, he exchanges his stock for a new issuance of stock of Corporation X. The stock received by the taxpayer in the exchange may not qualify as section 1244 stock even if the corporation has adopted a valid plan and is a small business corporation.

# Example 2.
A taxpayer owns stock in Corporation X. Corporation X merges into Corporation Y. In exchange for his stock, Corporation Y issues shares of its stock to the taxpayer. The stock in Corporation Y does not qualify as section 1244 stock even if the stock exchanged by the taxpayer did qualify.

# Example 3.
Corporation X transfers part of its business assets to Corporation Y, a new corporation, and all of the stock of Corporation Y is issued directly to the shareholders of Corporation X. Since the Corporation Y stock was not issued to the shareholders for a transfer by them of money or other property, none of the Corporation Y stock in the hands of the shareholders can qualify.
(e)
Gross receipts.
(1)(i)(
a
) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, stock will not qualify under section 1244, if 50 percent or more of the gross receipts of the corporation, for the period consisting of the five most recent taxable years of the corporation ending before the date the loss on such stock is sustained by the shareholders, is derived from royalties, rents, dividends, interest, annuities, and sales or exchanges of stock or securities. If the corporation has not been in existence for five taxable years ending before such date, the percentage test referred to in the preceding sentence applies to the period of the taxable years ending before such date during which the corporation has been in existence; and if the loss is sustained during the first taxable year of the corporation such test applies to the period beginning with the first day of such
taxable year and ending on the day before the loss is sustained. The test under this paragraph shall be made on the basis of total gross receipts, except that gross receipts from the sales or exchanges of stock or securities shall be taken into account only to the extent of gains therefrom. The term
gross receipts
as used in section 1244(c)(1)(C) is not synonymous with
gross income.
Gross receipts means the total amount received or accrued under the method of accounting used by the corporation in computing its taxable income. Thus, the total amount of receipts is not reduced by returns and allowances, cost, or deductions. For example, gross receipts will include the total amount received or accrued during the corporation's taxable year from the sale or exchange (including a sale or exchange to which section 337 applies) of any kind of property, from investments, and for services rendered by the corporation. However, gross receipts does not include amounts received in nontaxable sales or exchanges (other than those to which section 337 applies), except to the extent that gain is recognized by the corporation, nor does that term include amounts received as a loan, as a repayment of a loan, as a contribution to capital, or on the issuance by the corporation of its own stock.
(
b
) The meaning of the term
gross receipts
as used in section 1244(c)(1)(C) may be further illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A corporation on the accrual method sells property (other than stock or securities) and receives payment partly in money and partly in the form of a note payable at a future time. The amount of the money and the face amount of the note would be considered gross receipts in the taxable year of the sale and would not be reduced by the adjusted basis of the property, the costs of sale, or any other amount.

# Example 2.
A corporation has a long-term contract as defined in paragraph (a) of § 1.451-3 with respect to which it reports income according to the percentage-of-completion method as described in paragraph (b)(1) of § 1.451-3. The portion of the gross contract price which corresponds to the percentage of the entire contract which has been completed during the taxable year shall be included in gross receipts for such year.

# Example 3.
A corporation which regularly sells personal property on the installment plan elects to report its taxable income from the sale of property (other than stock or securities) on the installment method in accordance with section 453. The installment payments actually received in a given taxable year of the corporation shall be included in gross receipts for such year.
(ii) The term
royalties
as used in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph means all royalties, including mineral, oil, and gas royalties (whether or not the aggregate amount of such royalties constitutes 50 percent or more of the gross income of the corporation for the taxable year), and amounts received for the privilege of using patents, copyrights, secret processes and formulas, good will, trademarks, trade brands, franchises, and other like property. The term
royalties
does not include amounts received upon the disposal of timber, coal, or domestic iron ore with a retained economic interest to which the special rules of section 631 (b) and (c) apply or amounts received from the transfer of patent rights to which section 1235 applies. For the definition of
mineral, oil, or gas royalties,
see paragraph (b)(11) (ii) and (iii) of § 1.543-1. For purposes of this subdivision, the gross amount of royalties shall not be reduced by any part of the cost of the rights under which they are received or by any amount allowable as a deduction in computing taxable income.
(iii) The term
rents
as used in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph means amounts received for the use of, or right to use, property (whether real or personal) of the corporation, whether or not such amounts constitute 50 percent or more of the gross income of the corporation for the taxable year. The term
rents
does not include payments for the use or occupancy of rooms or other space where significant services are also rendered to the occupant, such as for the use or occupancy of rooms or other quarters in hotels, boarding houses, or apartment houses furnishing hotel services, or in tourist homes, motor courts, or motels. Generally, services are considered rendered to the occupant if they are primarily for his convenience and are other than those usually or customarily rendered in connection with the rental of rooms or other space for occupancy only. The supplying of maid service, for example, constitutes such services; whereas the
furnishing of heat and light, the cleaning of public entrances, exits, stairways, and lobbies, the collection of trash, etc., are not considered as services rendered to the occupant. Payments for the use or occupancy of entire private residences or living quarters in duplex or multiple housing units, of offices in an office building, etc., are generally
rents
under section 1244(c)(1)(C). Payments for the parking of automobiles ordinarily do not constitute rents. Payments for the warehousing of goods or for the use of personal property do not constitute rents if significant services are rendered in connection with such payments.
(iv) The term
dividends
as used in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph includes dividends as defined in section 316, amounts required to be included in gross income under section 551 (relating to foreign personal holding company income taxed to United States shareholders), and consent dividends determined as provided in section 565.
(v) The term
interest
as used in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph means any amounts received for the use of money (including tax-exempt interest).
(vi) The term
annuities
as used in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph means the entire amount received as an annuity under an annuity, endowment, or life insurance contract, regardless of whether only part of such amount would be includible in gross income under section 72.
(vii) For purposes of subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, gross receipts from the sales or exchanges of stock or securities are taken into account only to the extent of gains therefrom. Thus, the gross receipts from the sale of a particular share of stock will be the excess of the amount realized over the adjusted basis of such share. If the adjusted basis should equal or exceed the amount realized on the sale or exchange of a certain share of stock, bond, etc., there would be no gross receipts resulting from the sale of such security. Losses on sales or exchanges of stock or securities do not offset gains on the sales or exchanges of other stock or securities for purposes of computing gross receipts from such sales or exchanges. Gross receipts from the sale or exchange of stocks and securities include gains received from such sales or exchanges by a corporation even though such corporation is a regular dealer in stocks and securities. For the meaning of the term
stocks or securities,
see paragraph (b)(5)(i) of § 1.543-1.
(2) The requirement of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph need not be satisfied if for the applicable period the aggregate amount of deductions allowed to the corporation exceeds the aggregate amount of its gross income. But for this purpose the deductions allowed by section 172, relating to the net operating loss deduction, and by sections 242, 243, 244, and 245, relating to certain special deductions for corporations, shall not be taken into account. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subparagraph and of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, pursuant to the specific delegation of authority granted in section 1244(e) to prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of section 1244, ordinary loss treatment will not be available with respect to stock of a corporation which is not largely an operating company within the five most recent taxable years (or such lesser period as the corporation is in existence) ending before the date of the loss. Thus, for example, assume that a person who is not a dealer in real estate forms a corporation which issues stock to him which meets all the formal requirements of section 1244 stock. The corporation then acquires a piece of unimproved real estate which it holds as an investment. The property declines in value and the stockholder sells his stock at a loss. The loss does not qualify for ordinary loss treatment under section 1244 but must be treated as a capital loss.
(3) In applying subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph to a successor corporation in a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(F), such corporation shall be treated as the same corporation as its predecessor. See paragraph (d)(2) of § 1.1244(d)-3.
(f)
Special rules applicable to pre-November 1978 stock.
(1)(i) Pre-November 1978 common stock must have been issued under a written plan adopted by the corporation after June 30, 1958, and on or before November 6, 1978, to offer
only this stock during a period specified in the plan ending not later than 2 years after the date the plan is adopted. The 2-year requirement referred to in the preceding sentence is met if the period specified in the plan is based upon the date when, under the rules or regulations of a Government agency relating to the issuance of the stock, the stock may lawfully be sold, and it is clear that this period will end, and in fact does end, within 2 years after the plan is adopted. The plan must specifically state, in terms of dollars, the maximum amount to be received by the corporation in consideration for the stock to be issued under the plan. See § 1.1244(c)-2 for the limitation on the amount that may be received by the corporation under the plan.
(ii) To qualify, the pre-November 1978 stock must be issued during the period of the offer, which period must end not later than two years after the date the plan is adopted. Pre-November 1978 stock which is subscribed for during the period of the plan but not issued during this period cannot qualify as section 1244 stock. Pre-November 1978 stock issued on the exercise of a stock right, stock warrant, or stock option (which right, warrant, or option was not outstanding at the time the plan was adopted) will be treated as issued under a plan only if the right, warrant, or option is applicable solely to unissued stock offered under the plan and is exercised during the period of the plan.
(iii) Pre-November 1978 stock subscribed for prior to the adoption of the plan, including stock subscribed for prior to the date the corporation comes into existence, may be considered issued under a plan adopted by the corporation if the stock is not in fact issued prior to the adoption of the plan.
(iv) Pre-November 1978 stock issued for a payment which, alone or together with prior payments, exceeds the maximum amount that may be received under the plan, is not considered issued under the plan, and none of the stock can qualify as section 1244 stock. See § 1.1244(c)-2(b) for a different rule with respect to post-November 1978 stock.
(2) Pre-November 1978 stock does not qualify as section 1244 stock if at the time of the adoption of the plan under which it is issued there remains unissued any portion of a prior offering of stock. Thus, if any portion of an outstanding offering of common or preferred stock is unissued at the time of the adoption of the plan, stock issued under the plan will not qualify as section 1244 stock. An offer is outstanding unless and until it is withdrawn by affirmative action before the plan is adopted. Stock rights, stock warrants, stock options, or securities convertible into stock, that are outstanding at the time the plan is adopted, are considered prior offerings. The authorization in the corporate charter to issue stock different from stock offered under the plan or in excess of stock offered under the plan is not of itself a prior offering.
(3)(i) Even though the plan satisfies the requirements of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (f), if another offering of pre-November 1978 stock is made by the corporation subsequent to, or simultaneous with, the adoption of the plan, pre-November 1978 stock issued under the plan after the other offering does not qualify as section 1244 stock. The issuance of stock options, stock rights, or stock warrants at any time during the period of the plan, that are exercisable on stock other than stock offered under the plan, is considered a subsequent offering. Similarly, the issuance of pre-November 1978 stock other than that offered under the plan is considered a subsequent offering. Because stock issued upon exercise of a converson privilege is stock issued for a security, and stock issued under a stock option granted in whole or in part for services is not issued for money or other property, the issuance of securities with a conversion privilege and the issuance of such a stock option are subsequent offerings, because the conversion privilege and the stock option are exercisable with respect to stock other than that which may properly be offered under the plan. Pre-November 1978 stock issued under the plan before a subsequent offering is not disqualified because of the subsequent offering. The rule of the subparagraph, together with the rule of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (f), relating to offers prior to the adoption of
the plan, limits pre-November 1978 section 1244 stock to stock issued by the corporation during a period when any stock issued by it must have been issued under the plan.
(ii) Any modification of a plan that changes the offering to include preferred stock, or that increases the amount of pre-November 1978 stock that may be issued under the plan to such an extent that the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section would not have been satisfied if determined with reference to this amount as of the date the plan was initially adopted, or that extends the period of time during which stock may be issued under the plan to more than 2 years from the date the plan was initially adopted, is considered a subsequent offering, and no stock issued after this offering may qualify. However, a corporation may withdraw a plan and adopt a new plan to issue stock. To determine whether stock issued under this new plan may qualify, this paragraph (f) must be applied with respect to the new plan as of the date of its adoption. For example, amounts received for stock under the prior plan must be taken into account in determining whether the statutory requirements relating to definition of small business corporation are satisfied. In applying the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, reference should be made to equity capital as of the date the new plan is adopted. The same principles apply if the period of the initial plan expires and the corporation adopts a new plan.
[T.D. 7779, 46 FR 29468, June 2, 1981]
§ 1.1244(c)-2
Small business corporation defined.
(a)
In general.
A corporation is treated as a small business corporation if it is a domestic corporation that satisfies the requirements described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section. The requirements of paragraph (b) of this section apply if a loss is sustained on post-November 1978 stock. The requirements of paragraph (c) of this section apply if a loss is sustained on pre-November 1978 stock. If losses are sustained on both pre-November 1978 stock and post-November 1978 stock in the same taxable year, the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section are applied to the corporation at the time of the issuance of the stock (as required by paragraph (b) in the case of a loss on post-November 1978 stock) in order to determine whether the loss on post-November 1978 stock qualifies as a section 1244 loss, and the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section are applied to the corporation at the time of the adoption of the plan (as required by paragraph (c) in the case of a loss on pre-November 1978 stock) in order to determine whether the loss on pre-November 1978 stock qualifies as a section 1244 loss. For definition of domestic corporation, see section 7701 (a)(4) and the regulations under that section.
(b)
Post-November 1978 stock
—(1)
Amount received by corporation for stock.
Capital receipts of a small business corporation may not exceed $1,000,000. For purposes of this paragraph the term
capital receipts
means the aggregate dollar amount received by the corporation for its stock, as a contribution to capital, and as paid-in surplus. If the $1,000,000 limitation is exceeded, the rules of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (b) apply. In making these determinations, (i) property is taken into account at its adjusted basis to the corporation (for determining gain) as of the date received by the corporation, and (ii) this aggregate amount is reduced by the amount of any liability to which the property was subject and by the amount of any liability assumed by the corporation at the time the property was received. Capital receipts are not reduced by distributions to shareholders, even though the distributions may be capital distributions.
(2)
Requirement of designation in event $1,000,000 limitation exceeded.
(i) If capital receipts exceed $1,000,000, the corporation shall designate as section 1244 stock certain shares of post-November 1978 common stock issued for money or other property in the transitional year. For purposes of this paragraph, the term
transitional year
means the first taxable year in which capital receipts exceed $1,000,000 and in which the corporation issues stock. This designation shall be made in accordance with the rules of subdivision (iii) of this paragraph (b)(2). The amount received for designated stock shall not exceed $1,000,000 less amounts received—
(A) In exchange for stock in years prior to the transitional year;
(B) As contributions to capital in years prior to the transitional year; and
(C) As paid-in surplus in years prior to the transitional year.
(ii) Post-November 1978 common stock issued for money or other property before the transitional year qualifies as section 1244 stock without affirmative designation by the corporation. Post-November 1978 common stock issued after the transitional year does not qualify as section 1244 stock.
(iii) The corporation shall make the designation required by subdivision (i) of this paragraph (b)(2) not later than the 15th day of the third month following the close of the transitional year. However, in the case of post-November 1978 common stock issued on or before June 2, 1981 the corporation shall make the required designation by August 3, 1981 or by the 15th day of the 3rd month following the close of the transitional year, whichever is later. The designation shall be made by entering the numbers of the qualifying share certificates on the corporation's records. If the shares do not bear serial numbers or other identifying numbers or letters, or are not represented by share certificates, the corporation shall make an alternative designation in writing at the time of issuance, or, in the case of post-November 1978 common stock issued on or before June 2, 1981 by August 3, 1981. This alternative designation may be made in any manner sufficient to identify the shares qualifying for section 1244 treatment. If the corporation fails to make a designation by share certificate number or an alternative written designation as described, the rules of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph (b) apply.
(3)
Allocation of section 1244 benefit in event corporation fails to designate qualifying shares.
If a corporation issues post-November 1978 stock in the transitional year and fails to designate certain shares of post-November 1978 common stock as section 1244 stock in accordance with the rules of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (b), the following rules apply:
(i) Section 1244 treatment is extended to losses sustained on post-November 1978 common stock issued for money or other property in taxable years before the transitional year and is withheld from losses sustained on post-November 1978 stock issued in taxable years after the transitional year.
(ii) Post-1958 capital received before the transitional year is subtracted from $1,000,000.
(iii) Subject to the annual limitation described in § 1.1244(b)-1, an ordinary loss on post-November 1978 common stock issued for money or other property in the transitional year is allowed in an amount which bears the same ratio to the total loss sustained by the individual as:
(A) The amount described in § 1.1244(c)-2(b) (3) (ii) bears to
(B) The total amount of money and other property received by the corporation in exchange for stock, as a contribution to capital, and as paid-in surplus in the transitional year.
(4)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (b) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On December 1, 1978, Corporation W, a newly-formed corporation, issues 10,000 shares of common stock at $125 a share for an amount (determined under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (b)) of money and other property totaling $1,250,000. The board of directors specifies that 8,000 shares are section 1244 stock and records the certificate numbers of the qualifying shares in its minutes. Because Corporation W issued post-November 1978 common stock in exchange for money and other property exceeding $1,000,000, but has designated shares of stock as section 1244 stock and the designated shares were issued in exchange for money and other property not exceeding $1,000,000 (8,000 shares × $125 price per share = $1,000,000), the 8,000 designated shares qualify as section 1244 stock.

# Example 2.
Corporation X comes into existence on June 1, 1979. On June 10, 1979, Corporation X issues 2,500 shares of common stock at $250 per share to shareholder A and 2,500 shares of common stock at $250 per share to shareholder B. By written agreement dated September 1, 1981, shareholder A and shareholder B determine that 1,500 of shareholder A's shares and all of shareholder B's shares will be treated as section 1244 stock. Although shareholder A's 1,500 shares and shareholder B's 2,500 shares were issued for money and other property not exceeding $1,000,000 (4,000 shares × $250 price per share = $1,000,000, these 4,000 shares do not qualify as
section 1244 stock under the rules of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (b) for three reasons: The agreement of September 1, 1979, (i) did not identify which 1,500 of shareholder A's 2,500 shares were intended to qualify for section 1244 treatment, (ii) was made by the shareholders and not by Corporation X, and (iii) was made later than the 15th day of the third month following the close of the transitional year. However, certain of the shares issued by Corporation X may qualify as section 1244 stock under the rules of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph (b). See example (4).

# Example 3.
On December 1, 1980, Corporation Y issues common stock to shareholder A in exchange for $500,000 in cash. On August 1, 1981, Corporation Y issues common stock to shareholder B in exchange for property having an adjusted basis to Corporation Y of $500,000. On December 1, 1981, B transfers a tract of land having a basis in B's hands of $250,000 to Corporation Y as a contribution to capital. Under section 362(a)(2) of the Code, Corporation Y takes a basis of $250,000 in the tract of land. Corporation Y is a calendar year corporation. On February 15, 1982, it designates all of shareholder B's stock as section 1244 stock by entering the numbers of the qualifying certificates on the corporation's records. The designation made by Corporation Y is effective because it identifies which shares of its stock qualify for section 1244 treatment, was made in writing before the 15th day of the 3rd month following the close of the transitional year (1981), and because the amount received for designated stock does not exceed $1,000,000, less amounts received (i) in exchange for stock in years prior to the transitional year; (ii) as contributions to capital in years prior to the transitional year; and (iii) as paid-in surplus in years prior to the transitional year. Nevertheless, in the event of B's sale of his stock at a loss, the increase in basis attributable to his December, 1981, contribution to capital will be treated as allocable to stock that is not section 1244 stock under § 1.1244(d)-2.

# Example 4.
Corporation Z, a newly-formed corporation, issues 10,000 shares of common stock at $200 per share on July 1, 1979. In exchange for its stock Corporation Z receives property (other than stock or securities) having a basis to the corporation of $400,000, and $1,600,000 in cash, for a total of $2,000,000. Corporation Z fails to designate any of the issued shares as section 1244 stock. Shareholder C purchases 2,500 shares of the 10,000 shares of Corporation Z stock for $500,000 on July 1, 1979. Subsequently, shareholder C sells the 2,500 shares for $400,000. Shareholder C may treat $50,000 of the $100,000 loss as an ordinary loss under section 1244. The amount of that loss is computed under the rule of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph (b) as follows:
X [C's section 1244 loss]
$100,000 [C's total loss]
=
$1,000,000 [$1,000,000 −0 = $1,000,000]
$2,000,000 [total amount received by Corporation Z]
X = $50,000
The remaining $50,000 is not treated as an ordinary loss under section 1244.

# Example 5.
(i) Corporation V, a newly-formed corporation, issues common stock to shareholder A and shareholder B on June 15, 1980, in exchange for $800,000 in cash ($400,000 from A and $400,000 from B). On September 15, 1981, the corporation issues common stock to shareholder C in exchange for $600,000 in cash. On January 1, 1982, common stock is issued to shareholder D in exchange for $100,000 in cash. Corporation V fails to designate any of the issued shares as section 1244 stock. A, B, C, and D subsequently sell their Corporation Y stock at a loss.
(ii) Subject to the annual limitation discussed in § 1.1244(b)-1, A and B may treat their entire loss as an ordinary loss under section 1244. D may not treat any part of his loss as an ordinary loss under section 1244. Subject to the annual limitation, one-third of the loss sustained by shareholder C is treated as an ordinary loss under section 1244. These results are calculated under the rules of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph (b) as follows: First, section 1244 treatment is extended to post-November 1978 stock issued to A and B in 1980, a taxable year before the transitional year (1981); section 1244 treatment is withheld from the stock issued to D in 1982, a taxable year after the transitional year. Second $800,000 the amount of post-1958 capital received in taxable years before the transitional year, is subtracted from $1,000,000 to leave $200,000. Third, subject to the annual limitation, an ordinary loss is allowed to C in an amount which bears the same ratio to his total loss as the amount calculated in the preceding sentence ($200,000) bears to the total amount received by the corporation in the transitional year in exchange for stock, as a contribution to capital, or as paid-in surplus ($600,000).

# Example 6.
Corporation V comes into existence on July 1, 1982. On that date it issues 10 shares of voting common stock to shareholder A in exchange for $500,000 and 5 shares of voting common stock to shareholder B in exchange for $250,000, designating the shares issued to both A and B as section 1244 stock. On September 15, 1982, Corporation V receives a contribution to capital from shareholders A and B having a basis in their hands of $225,000. On February 1, 1983, Corporation V issues one share of stock to shareholder C in exchange for $50,000. Corporation V may designate one-half of the share issued to shareholder C as section 1244 stock under
§ 1.1244(c)-2 (b)(2). In 1982 the corporation received $750,000 for stock ($500,000 from A and $250,000 from B) and $225,000 as a capital contribution, totaling $975,000 in capital receipts. The receipt of $50,000 from shareholder C in exchange for stock in 1983 causes capital receipts to exceed $1,000,000 and 1983 thus becomes Corporation V's transitional year. Corporation V may receive only $25,000 for designated stock in 1983 under the rule set forth in § 1.1244 (c)-2 (b)(2)(i), which states that the amount received for designated stock shall not exceed $1,000,000, less amounts received (i) in exchange for stock in years prior to the transitional year ($750,000 from A and B), (ii) as contributions to capital in years prior to the transitional year ($225,000), and (iii) as paid-in surplus in years prior to the transitional year ($0). Thus, one-half of C's share (representing the receipt of $25,000) may be designated as section 1244 stock by Corporation V. In the event of the sale of A's stock or B's stock at a loss, the increase in basis attributable to their contribution to capital will be treated as allocable to stock that is not section 1244 stock under § 1.1244(d)-2.
(c)
Pre-November 1978 stock
—(1)
Amount received by corporation for stock.
At the time of the adoption of the plan, the sum of the aggregate dollar amount to be paid for pre-November 1978 stock that may be offered under the plan plus the aggregate amount of money and other property that has been received by the corporation after June 30, 1958, and on or before November 6, 1978, for its stock, as a contribution to capital by its shareholders, and as paid-in surplus must not exceed $500,000. In making these determinations (i) property is taken into account at its adjusted basis to the corporation (for determining gain) as of the date received by the corporation, and (ii) this aggregate amount is reduced by the amount of any liability to which the property was subject and by the amount of any liability assumed by the corporation at the time the property was received. For purposes of the $500,000 test, the total amount of money and other property received for stock, as a contribution to capital, and as paid-in surplus is not reduced by distributions to shareholders, even though the distributions may be capital distributions. Thus, once the total amount of money and other property received after June 30, 1958, reaches $500,000, the corporation is precluded from subsequently issuing pre-November 1978 stock. For a different rule that applies to post-November 1978 stock see § 1.1244(c)-2(b).
(2)
Equity capital.
The sum of the aggregate dollar amount to be paid for pre-November 1978 stock that may be offered under the plan plus the equity capital of the corporation (determined on the date of the adoption of the plan) may not exceed $1,000,000. For this purpose, equity capital is the sum of the corporation's money and other property (in an amount equal to its adjusted basis for determining gain) less the amount of the corporation's indebtedness to persons other than its shareholders.
(3)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph (c) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Corporation W comes into existence on December 1, 1958. On that date the corporation may adopt a plan to issue common stock for an amount (determined under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (c)) not in excess of $500,000 during a period ending not later than November 30, 1960. Such corporation will qualify as a small business corporation as of the date that the plan is adopted. However, if the corporation adopts a plan to issue stock for an amount in excess of $500,000 it is not a small business corporation at the time the plan is adopted and no stock issued under the plan may qualify as section 1244 stock. If the cost of organizing corporation W amounted to $1,000 and constituted paid-in surplus or a contribution to capital, such amount must be taken into account in determining the amount that may be received under the plan, with the result that only $499,000 may be so received.

# Example 2.
On December 1, 1958, Corporation X, a newly formed corporation, adopts a plan to issue common stock for an amount (determined under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (c)) not in excess of $500,000 during a period ending not later than November 30, 1960. By January 1, 1960, the corporation has, pursuant to the plan, issued at par, stock having an aggregate par value of $400,000, $200,000 of which was issued for $200,000 cash, and $200,000 of which was issued for property (other than stock or securities) having a basis to the corporation of $100,000 and a fair market value of $200,000. The corporation may, prior to November 30, 1960, issue stock for an amount not in excess of $200,000 cash or property having a basis to it not in excess of $200,000. Stock issued for any payment which, alone or together with any payments received after January 1, 1960, exceeds such $200,000 amount would not qualify as section 1244 stock because it would not be issued pursuant to the plan.

# Example 3.
Assume that on December 1, 1958, Corporation Y, a newly formed corporation, adopts a plan to issue common stock for an amount (determined under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph (c)) not in excess of $500,000 during a period ending not later than November 30, 1960. By January 1960 the corporation has received $400,000 cash for stock issued pursuant to the plan, but due to business successes the equity capital of the corporation exceeds $1,000,000. Since the equity capital test is made as of the date that the plan is adopted, the corporation may still, prior to November 30, 1960, issue section 1244 stock pursuant to the plan until the full amount specified in the plan has been received.

# Example 4.
Subsequent to June 30, 1958, Corporation Z receives a total of $600,000 cash on the issuance of its stock. In 1960 Corporation Z redeems shares of its stock for the total amount of $300,000 and the redemptions reduce Corporation Z's capital to substantially less than $500,000. Notwithstanding the redemptions, pre-November 1978 stock subsequently issued by Corporation Z will not qualify as section 1244 stock because the $500,000 limitation has been previously exceeded.
[T.D. 7779, 46 FR 29470, June 2, 1981, as amended by T.D. 7837, 47 FR 42729, Sept. 29, 1982; 60 FR 16575, Mar. 31, 1995]
§ 1.1244(d)-1
Contributions of property having basis in excess of value.
(a)
In general.
(1) Section 1244(d)(1) (A) provides a special rule which limits the amount of loss on section 1244 stock that may be treated as an ordinary loss. This rule applies only when section 1244 stock is issued by a corporation in exchange for property that, immediately before the exchange, has an adjusted basis (for determining loss) in excess of its fair market value. If section 1244 stock is issued in exchange for such property and the basis of such stock in the hands of the taxpayer is determined by reference to the basis of such property, then for purposes of section 1244, the basis of such stock shall be reduced by an amount equal to the excess, at the time of the exchange, of the adjusted basis of the property over its fair market value.
(2) The provisions of section 1244(d) (1)(A) do not affect the basis of stock for purposes other than section 1244. Such provisions are to be used only in determining the portion of the total loss sustained that may be treated as an ordinary loss pursuant to section 1244.
(b)
Transfer of more than one item.
If a taxpayer exchanges several items of property for stock in a single transaction so that the basis of the property transferred is allocated evenly among the shares of stock received, the computation under this section should be made by reference to the aggregate fair market value and the aggregate basis of the property transferred.
(c)
Examples.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
B transfers property with an adjusted basis of $1,000 and a fair market value of $250 to a corporation for 10 shares of section 1244 stock in an exchange that qualifies under section 351. The basis of B's stock is $1,000 ($100 per share), but, solely for purposes of section 1244, the total basis of the stock must be reduced by $750, the excess of the adjusted basis of the property exchanged over its fair market value. Thus, the basis of such stock for purposes of section 1244 is $250 and the basis of each share for such purposes is $25. If B sells his 10 shares for $250, he will recognize a loss of $750, all of which must be treated as a capital loss. If he sells the 10 shares for $200, then $50 of his total loss of $800 will be treated as an ordinary loss under section 1244, assuming the various requirements of such section are satisfied, and the remaining $750 will be a capital loss.

# Example 2.
B owns property with a basis of $20,000. The fair market value of the property unencumbered is $15,000 but the property is subject to a $2,000 mortgage. B transfers the encumbered property to a corporation for 100 shares of section 1244 stock in an exchange that qualifies under section 351. The basis of the shares, determined in accordance with section 358, is $18,000 or $180 per share, but solely for purposes of section 1244 the basis is $13,000 ($130 per share), which is its basis for purposes other than section 1244, reduced by $5,000, the excess of the adjusted basis, immediately before the exchange, of the property transferred over its fair market value.

# Example 3.
C transfers business assets to a corporation for 100 shares of section 1244 stock in an exchange that qualifies under section 351. The assets transferred are as follows:
Basis
Fair market value
Cash
$10,000
$10,000
Inventory
15,000
30,000
Depreciable property
50,000
20,000
Land
25,000
10,000
100,000
70,000
The basis for the shares received by C is $100,000, which is applied $1,000 to each share. However, the basis of the shares for purposes of section 1244 is $70,000 ($700 per share), the basis for general purposes reduced by $30,000, the excess of the aggregate adjusted basis of the property transferred over the aggregate fair market value of such property.
[T.D. 6495, 25 FR 9679, Oct. 8, 1960]
§ 1.1244(d)-2
Increases in basis of section 1244 stock.
(a)
In general.
If subsequent to the time of its issuance there is for any reason, including the operation of section 1376(a), an increase in the basis of section 1244 stock, such increase shall be treated as allocable to stock which is not section 1244 stock. Therefore, a loss on stock, the basis of which has been increased subsequent to its issuance, must be apportioned between the part that qualifies as section 1244 stock and the part that does not so qualify. Only the loss apportioned to the part that so qualifies may be treated as an ordinary loss pursuant to section 1244. The amount of loss apportioned to the part that qualifies is the amount which bears the same ratio to the total loss as the basis of the stock which is treated as allocated to section 1244 stock bears to the total basis of the stock.
(b)
Example.
The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
For $10,000 a corporation issues 100 shares of section 1244 stock to X. X later contributes $2,000 to the capital of the corporation and this increases the total basis of his 100 shares to $12,000. Subsequently, he sells the 100 shares for $9,000. Of the $3,000 loss, $2,500 is allocated to the portion of the stock that qualifies as section 1244 stock ($10,000/$12,000 of $3,000), and the remaining $500 is allocated to the portion of the stock that does not so qualify. Therefore, to the extent of $2,500, the loss may be treated as an ordinary loss assuming the various requirements of section 1244 stock are satisfied. However, the remaining $500 loss must be treated as a capital loss.
[T.D. 6495, 25 FR 9680, Oct. 8, 1960]
§ 1.1244(d)-3
Stock dividend, recapitalizations, changes in name, etc.
(a)
In general.
Section 1244(c)(1) provides that stock may not qualify for the benefits of section 1244 unless it is issued to the taxpayer for money or other property not including stock or securities. However, section 1244(d)(2) authorizes exceptions to this rule. The exceptions may apply in three situations: (1) The receipt of a stock dividend; (2) the exchange of stock for stock pursuant to a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(E); and (3) the exchange of stock for stock pursuant to a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(F).
(b)
Stock dividends.
(1) If common stock is received by an individual or partnership in a nontaxable distribution under section 305(a) made solely with respect to stock owned by such individual or partnership which meets the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the distribution, then the common stock so received will also be treated as meeting such requirements. For purposes of this paragraph and paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the distribution or exchange are all of the requirements of section 1244(c)(1) other than the one described in subparagraph (C) thereof, relating to the gross receipts test.
(2) If, however, such stock dividend is received by such individual or partnership partly with respect to stock meeting the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the distribution, and partly with respect to stock not meeting such requirements, then only part of the stock received as a stock dividend will be treated as meeting such requirements. Assuming all the shares with respect to which the dividend is received have equal rights to dividends, such part is the number of shares which bears the same ratio to the total number of shares received as the number of shares owned immediately before the stock dividend which meets such qualifications bears to the total number of shares with respect to which the stock dividend is received. In determining the basis of shares received in the stock dividend and of the shares held before the stock dividend, section 307 shall apply as if two separate nontaxable stock dividends were made, one with respect to the shares that meet the requirements and the other with respect to shares that do not meet the requirements.
(3) The provisions of subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Corporation X issues 100 shares of its common stock to B for $1,000. Subsequently, in a nontaxable stock dividend B receives 5 more shares of common stock of Corporation X. If the 100 shares meet all the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the distribution of the stock dividend, the 5 additional shares shall also be treated as meeting such requirements.

# Example 2.
In 1959, Corporation Y issues 100 shares of its common stock to C for $1,000 and these shares meet the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the issuance. In 1960, C purchases an additional 200 shares of such stock from another shareholder for $3,000; however, these shares do not meet the requirements of section 1244 stock because they were not originally issued to C by the corporation. In 1961, C receives 15 shares of Corporation Y common stock as a stock dividend. Of the shares received, 5 shares, the number received with respect to the 100 shares of stock which met the requirements of section 1244 at the time of the distribution, i.e., 100/300 × 15, shall also be treated as meeting such requirements. The remaining 10 shares do not meet such requirements as they are not received with respect to section 1244 stock. The basis of such 5 shares is determined by applying section 307 as if the 5 shares were received as a separate stock dividend made solely with respect to shares that meet the requirements of section 1244 stock at the time of the distribution. Thus, the basis of the 5 shares is $47.61 (
5/105
of $1,000).
(c)
Recapitalizations.
(1) If, pursuant to a recapitalization described in section 368(a)(1)(E), common stock of a corporation is received by an individual or partnership in exchange for stock of such corporation meeting the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the exchange, such common stock shall be treated as meeting such requirements.
(2) If common stock is received pursuant to such a recapitalization partly in exchange for stock meeting the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the exchange and partly in exchange for stock not meeting such requirements, then only part of such common stock will be treated as meeting such requirements. Such part is the number of shares which bears the same ratio to the total number of shares of common stock so received as the basis of the shares transferred which meet such requirements bears to the basis of all the shares transferred for such common stock. The basis allocable, pursuant to section 358, to the common stock which is treated as meeting such requirements is limited to the basis of stock that meets such requirements transferred in the exchange.
(3) The provisions of subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 3.
A owns 500 shares of voting common stock of Corporation X. Corporation X revises its capital structure to provide for two classes of common stock: Class A voting and Class B nonvoting. In a recapitalization described in subparagraph (E) of section 368(a)(1). A exchanges his 500 shares for 750 shares of Class B nonvoting stock. If the 500 shares meet all the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the exchange, the 750 shares received in the exchange are treated as meeting such requirements.

# Example 4.
B owns 500 shares of common stock of Corporation X with a basis of $5,000, and 100 shares of preferred stock of that corporation with a basis of $2,500. Pursuant to a recapitalization described in section 368(a)(1)(E), B exchanges all of his shares for 900 shares of common stock of Corporation X. The 500 common shares meet the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the exchange, but the 100 preferred shares do not meet such requirements since only common stock may qualify. Of the 900 common shares received, 600 shares ($5,000/$7,500 × 900 shares) are treated as meeting the requirements of section 1244 stock at the time of the exchange, because they are deemed to be received in exchange for the 500 common shares which met such requirements. The remaining 300 shares do not meet such requirements as they are not deemed to be received in exchange for section 1244 stock. The basis of the 600 shares is $5,000, the basis of the relinquished shares meeting the requirements of section 1244.
(d)
Change of name, etc.
(1) If, pursuant to a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(F), common stock of a successor corporation is received by an individual or partnership in exchange for stock of the predecessor corporation meeting the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the exchange, such common stock shall be treated as meeting such
requirements. If common stock is received pursuant to such a reorganization partly in exchange for stock meeting the requirements of section 1244 stock determinable at the time of the exchange and partly in exchange for stock not meeting such requirements, the principles of paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply in determinating the number of shares received which are treated as meeting the requirements of section 1244 stock and the basis of those shares.
(2) For purposes of paragraphs (1)(C) and (3)(A) of section 1244(c), a successor corporation in a reorganization described in section 368(a)(1)(F) shall be treated as the same corporation as its predecessor.
[T.D. 7779, 46 FR 29472, June 2, 1981]
§ 1.1244(d)-4
Net operating loss deduction.
(a)
General rule.
For purpose of section 172, relating to the net operating loss deduction, any amount of loss that is treated as an ordinary loss under section 1244 (taking into account the annual dollar limitation of that section) shall be treated as attributable to the trade or business of the taxpayer. Therefore, this loss is allowable in determining the taxpayer's net operating loss for a taxable year and is not subject to the application of section 172(d)(4), relating to nonbusiness deductions. A taxpayer may deduct the maximum of ordinary loss permitted under section 1244(b) even though all or a portion of the taxpayer's net operating loss carryback or carryover for the taxable year was, when incurred, a loss on section 1244 stock.
(b)
Example.
The provisions of this section may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
A, a single individual, computes a net operating loss of $15,000 for 1980 in accordance with the rules of § 1.172-3, relating to net operating loss in case of a taxpayer other than a corporation. Included within A's computation of this net operating loss is a deduction arising under section 1244 for a loss on small business stock. A had no taxable income in 1977, 1978, or 1979. Assume that A can carry over the entire $15,000 loss under the rules of section 172. In 1981 A has gross income of $75,000 and again sustains a loss on section 1244 stock. The amount of A's 1981 loss on section 1244 stock is $50,000. A may deduct the full $50,000 as an ordinary loss under section 1244 and the full $15,000 as a net operating loss carryover in 1981.
[T.D. 7779, 46 FR 29473, June 2, 1981]
§ 1.1244(e)-1
Records to be kept.
(a)
By the corporation
—(1)
Mandatory records.
A plan to issue pre-November 1978 stock must appear upon the records of the corporation. Any designation of post-November 1978 stock under § 1.1244(c)-2(b)(2) also must appear upon the records of the corporation.
(2)
Discretionary records.
In order to substantiate an ordinary loss deduction claimed by its shareholders, the corporation should maintain records showing the following:
(i) The persons to whom stock was issued, the date of issuance to these persons, and a description of the amount and type of consideration received from each;
(ii) If the consideration received is property, the basis in the hands of the shareholder and the fair market value of the property when received by the corporation;
(iii) The amount of money and the basis in the hands of the corporation of other property received for its stock, as a contribution to capital, and as paid-in surplus;
(iv) Financial statements of the corporation, such as its income tax returns, that identify the source of the gross receipt of the corporation for the period consisting of the five most recent taxable years of the corporation, or, if the corporation has not been in existence for 5 taxable years, for the period of the corporation's existence;
(v) Information relating to any tax-free stock dividend made with respect to section 1244 stock and any reorganization in which stock is transferred by the corporation in exchange for section 1244 stock; and
(vi) With respect to pre-November 1978 stock;
(A) Which certificates represent stock issued under the plan;
(B) The amount of money and the basis in the hands of the corporation of other property received after June 30, 1958, and before the adoption of the plan, for its stock, as a contribution to capital, and as paid-in surplus; and
(C) The equity capital of the corporation on the date of adoption of the plan.
(b)
By the taxpayer.
A person who claims an ordinary loss with respect to stock under section 1244 must have records sufficient to establish that the taxpayer is entitled to the loss and satisfies the requirements of section 1244. See also section 6001, requiring records to be maintained.
In addition, a person who owns section 1244 stock in a corporation shall maintain records sufficient to distinguish such stock from any other stock he may own in the corporation.
[T.D. 6495, 25 FR 9681, Oct. 8, 1960, as amended by T.D. 7779, 46 FR 29473, June 2, 1981; 46 FR 31881, June 18, 1981; T.D. 8594, 60 FR 20898, Apr. 28, 1995]
§ 1.1245-1
General rule for treatment of gain from dispositions of certain depreciable property.
(a)
General.
(1) In general, section 1245(a)(1) provides that, upon a disposition of an item of section 1245 property, the amount by which the lower of (i) the
recomputed basis
of the property, or (ii) the amount realized on a sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion (or the fair market value of the property on any other disposition), exceeds the adjusted basis of the property shall be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property which is neither a capital asset nor property described in section 1231 (that is, shall be recognized as ordinary income). The amount of such gain shall be determined separately for each item of section 1245 property. In general, the term
recomputed basis
means the adjusted basis of property plus all adjustments reflected in such adjusted basis on account of depreciation allowed or allowable for all periods after December 31, 1961. See section 1245(a)(2) and § 1.1245-2. Generally, the ordinary income treatment applies even though in the absence of section 1245 no gain would be recognized under the Code. For example, if a corporation distributes section 1245 property as a dividend, gain may be recognized as ordinary income to the corporation even though, in the absence of section 1245, section 311(a) would preclude any recognition of gain to the corporation. For the definition of
section 1245 property,
see section 1245(a)(3) and § 1.1245-3. For exceptions and limitations to the application of section 1245(a)(1), see section 1245(b) and § 1.1245-4.
(2) Section 1245(a)(1) applies to dispositions of section 1245 property in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962, except that:
(i) In respect of section 1245 property which is an elevator or escalator, section 1245(a)(1) applies to dispositions after December 31, 1963, and
(ii) In respect of section 1245 property which is livestock (described in subparagraph (4) of § 1.1245-3(a)), section 1245(a)(1) applies to dispositions made in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969, and
(iii) [Reserved].
(3) For purposes of this section and §§ 1.1245-2 through 1.1245-6, the term
disposition
includes a sale in a sale-and-leaseback transaction and a transfer upon the foreclosure of a security interest, but such term does not include a mere transfer of title to a creditor upon creation of a security interest or to a debtor upon termination of a security interest. Thus, for example, a disposition occurs upon a sale of property pursuant to a conditional sales contract even though the seller retains legal title to the property for purposes of security but a disposition does not occur when the seller ultimately gives up his security interest following payment by the purchaser.
(4) For purposes of applying section 1245, the facts and circumstances of each disposition shall be considered in determining what is the appropriate item of section 1245 property. A taxpayer may treat any number of units of section 1245 property in any particular depreciation account (as defined in § 1.167(a)-7) as one item of section 1245 property as long as it is reasonably clear, from the best estimates obtainable on the basis of all the facts and circumstances, that the amount of gain to which section 1245(a)(1) applies is not less than the total of the gain under section 1245(a)(1) which would be computed separately for each unit. Thus, for example, if 50 units of section 1245 property X, 25 units of section 1245
property Y, and other property are accounted for in one depreciation account, and if each such unit is sold at a gain in one transaction in which the total gain realized on the sale exceeds the sum of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1245-2) of each such unit on account of depreciation allowed or allowable for periods after December 31, 1961, all 75 units may be treated as one item of section 1245 property. If, however, 5 such units of section 1245 property Y were sold at a loss, then only 70 of such units (50 of X plus the 20 of Y sold at a gain) may be treated as one item of section 1245 property.
(5) In case of a sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of section 1245 and non-section 1245 property in one transaction, the total amount realized upon the disposition shall be allocated between the section 1245 property and the non-section 1245 property in proportion to their respective fair market values. In general, if a buyer and seller have adverse interests as to the allocation of the amount realized between the section 1245 property and the non-section 1245 property, any arm's length agreement between the buyer and the seller will establish the allocation. In the absence of such an agreement, the allocation shall be made by taking into account the appropriate facts and circumstances. Some of the facts and circumstances which shall be taken into account to the extent appropriate include, but are not limited to, a comparison between the section 1245 property and all the property disposed of in such transaction of (i) the original cost and reproduction cost of construction, erection, or production, (ii) the remaining economic useful life, (iii) state of obsolescence, and (iv) anticipated expenditures to maintain, renovate, or to modernize.
(b)
Sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion.
(1) In the case of a sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of section 1245 property, the gain to which section 1245(a)(1) applies is the amount by which (i) the lower of the amount realized upon the disposition of the property or the recomputed basis of the property, exceeds (ii) the adjusted basis of the property.
(2) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On January 1, 1964, Brown purchases section 1245 property for use in his manufacturing business. The property has a basis for depreciation of $3,300. After taking depreciation deductions of $1,300 (the amount allowable), Brown realizes after selling expenses the amount of $2,900 upon sale of the property on January 1, 1969. Brown's gain is $900 ($2,900 amount realized minus $2,000 adjusted basis). Since the amount realized upon disposition of the property ($2,900) is lower than its recomputed basis ($3,300, i.e., $2,000 adjusted basis plus $1,300 in depreciation deductions), the entire gain is treated as ordinary income under section 1245(a)(1) and not as gain from the sale or exchange of property described in section 1231.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that Brown exchanges the section 1245 property for land which has a fair market value of $3,700, thereby realizing a gain of $1,700 ($3,700 amount realized minus $2,000 adjusted basis). Since the recomputed basis of the property ($3,300) is lower than the amount realized upon its disposition ($3,700), the excess of recomputed basis over adjusted basis, or $1,300, is treated as ordinary income under section 1245(a)(1). The remaining $400 of the gain may be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of property described in section 1231.
(c)
Other dispositions.
(1) In the case of a disposition of section 1245 property other than by way of a sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion, the gain to which section 1245(a)(1) applies is the amount by which (i) the lower of the fair market value of the property on the date of disposition or the recomputed basis of the property, exceeds (ii) the adjusted basis of the property. If property is transferred by a corporation to a shareholder for an amount less than its fair market value in a sale or exchange, for purposes of applying section 1245 such transfer shall be treated as a disposition other than by way of a sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion.
(2) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
X Corporation distributes section 1245 property to its shareholders as a dividend. The property has an adjusted basis of $2,000 to the corporation, a recomputed basis of $3,300, and a fair market value of $3,100. Since the fair market value of the
property ($3,100) is lower than its recomputed basis ($3,300), the excess of fair market value over adjusted basis, or $1,100, is treated under section 1245(a)(1) as ordinary income to the corporation even though, in the absence of section 1245, section 311(a) would preclude recognition of gain to the corporation.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that X Corporation distributes the section 1245 property to its shareholders in complete liquidation of the corporation. Assume further that section 1245(b)(3) does not apply and that the fair market value of the property is $3,800 at the time of the distribution. Since the recomputed basis of the property ($3,300) is lower than its fair market value ($3,800), the excess of recomputed basis over adjusted basis, or $1,300, is treated under section 1245(a)(1) as ordinary income to the corporation even though, in the absence of section 1245, section 336 would preclude recognition of gain to the corporation.
(d)
Losses.
Section 1245(a)(1) does not apply to losses. Thus, section 1245(a)(1) does not apply if a loss is realized upon a sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion of property, all of which is considered section 1245 property, nor does the section apply to a disposition of such property other than by way of sale, exchange, or involuntary conversion if at the time of the disposition the fair market value of such property is not greater than its adjusted basis.
(e)
Treatment of partnership and partners.
(1) The manner of determining the amount of gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1) to a partnership may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
A partnership sells for $63 section 1245 property which has an adjusted basis to the partnership of $30 and a recomputed basis to the partnership of $60. The partnership recognizes under section 1245(a)(1) gain of $30, i.e., the lower of the amount realized ($63) or recomputed basis ($60), minus adjusted basis ($30). This result would not be changed if one or more partners had, in respect of the property, a special basis adjustment described in section 743(b) or had taken depreciation deductions in respect of such special basis adjustment.
(2)(i) Unless paragraph (e)(3) of this section applies, a partner's distributive share of gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1) by the partnership is equal to the lesser of the partner's share of total gain from the disposition of the property (gain limitation) or the partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to the property (as determined under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section). Any gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1) by the partnership that is not allocated under the first sentence of this paragraph (e)(2)(i) (excess depreciation recapture) is allocated among the partners whose shares of total gain from the disposition of the property exceed their shares of depreciation or amortization with respect to the property. Excess depreciation recapture is allocated among those partners in proportion to their relative shares of the total gain (including gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1)) from the disposition of the property that is allocated to the partners who are not subject to the gain limitation. See
Example 2
of paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(ii)(A) Subject to the adjustments described in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(B) and (e)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, a partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to property equals the total amount of allowed or allowable depreciation or amortization previously allocated to that partner with respect to the property.
(B) If a partner transfers a partnership interest, a share of depreciation or amortization must be allocated to the transferee partner as it would have been allocated to the transferor partner. If the partner transfers a portion of the partnership interest, a share of depreciation or amortization proportionate to the interest transferred must be allocated to the transferee partner.
(C)(
1
) A partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to property contributed by the partner includes the amount of depreciation or amortization allowed or allowable to the partner for the period before the property is contributed.
(
2
) A partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to property contributed by a partner is adjusted to account for any curative allocations. (See § 1.704-3(c) for a description of the traditional method with curative allocations.) The contributing partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to the contributed property is decreased (but not
below zero) by the amount of any curative allocation of ordinary income to the contributing partner with respect to that property and by the amount of any curative allocation of deduction or loss (other than capital loss) to the noncontributing partners with respect to that property. A noncontributing partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to the contributed property is increased by the noncontributing partner's share of any curative allocation of ordinary income to the contributing partner with respect to that property and by the amount of any curative allocation of deduction or loss (other than capital loss) to the noncontributing partner with respect to that property. The partners' shares of depreciation or amortization with respect to property from which curative allocations of depreciation or amortization are taken is determined without regard to those curative allocations. See
Example 3(iii)
of paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(
3
) A partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to property contributed by a partner is adjusted to account for any remedial allocations. (See § 1.704-3(d) for a description of the remedial allocation method.) The contributing partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to the contributed property is decreased (but not below zero) by the amount of any remedial allocation of income to the contributing partner with respect to that property. A noncontributing partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to the contributed property is increased by the amount of any remedial allocation of depreciation or amortization to the noncontributing partner with respect to that property. See
Example 3(iv)
of paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section.
(
4
) If, under paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(C)(
2
) and (e)(2)(ii)(C)(
3
) of this section, the partners' shares of depreciation or amortization with respect to a contributed property exceed the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property under § 1.1245-2(a) at the partnership level, then the partnership's gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1) with respect to that property is allocated among the partners in proportion to their relative shares of depreciation or amortization (subject to any gain limitation that might apply).
(
5
) This paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(C) also applies in determining a partner's share of depreciation or amortization with respect to property for which differences between book value and adjusted tax basis are created when a partnership revalues partnership property pursuant to § 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(
f
).
(iii)
Examples.
The application of this paragraph (e)(2) may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1. Recapture allocations.
(i)
Facts.
A and B each contribute $5,000 cash to form AB, a general partnership. The partnership agreement provides that depreciation deductions will be allocated 90 percent to A and 10 percent to B, and, on the sale of depreciable property, A will first be allocated gain to the extent necessary to equalize A's and B's capital accounts. Any remaining gain will be allocated 50 percent to A and 50 percent to B. In its first year of operations, AB purchases depreciable equipment for $5,000. AB depreciates the equipment over its 5-year recovery period and elects to use the straight-line method. In its first year of operations, AB's operating income equals its expenses (other than depreciation). (To simplify this example, AB's depreciation deductions are determined without regard to any first-year depreciation conventions.)
(ii)
Year 1.
In its first year of operations, AB has $1,000 of depreciation from the partnership equipment. In accordance with the partnership agreement, AB allocates 90 percent ($900) of the depreciation to A and 10 percent ($100) of the depreciation to B. At the end of the year, AB sells the equipment for $5,200, recognizing $1,200 of gain ($5,200 amount realized less $4,000 adjusted tax basis). In accordance with the partnership agreement, the first $800 of gain is allocated to A to equalize the partners' capital accounts, and the remaining $400 of gain is allocated $200 to A and $200 to B.
(iii)
Recapture allocations.
$1,000 of the gain from the sale of the equipment is treated as section 1245(a)(1) gain. Under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, each partner's share of the section 1245(a)(1) gain is equal to the lesser of the partner's share of total gain recognized on the sale of the equipment or the partner's share of total depreciation with respect to the equipment. Thus, A's share of the section 1245(a)(1) gain is $900 (the lesser of A's share of the total gain ($1,000) and A's share of depreciation ($900)). B's share of the section 1245(a)(1) gain is $100 (the lesser of B's share of the total gain ($200) and B's share of depreciation ($100)). Accordingly, $900 of the $1,000 of total gain allocated to A
is treated as ordinary income and $100 of the $200 of total gain allocated to B is treated as ordinary income.

# Example 2. Recapture allocation subject to gain limitation.
(i)
Facts.
A, B, and C form general partnership ABC. The partnership agreement provides that depreciation deductions will be allocated equally among the partners, but that gain from the sale of depreciable property will be allocated 75 percent to A and 25 percent to B. ABC purchases depreciable personal property for $300 and subsequently allocates $100 of depreciation deductions each to A, B, and C, reducing the adjusted tax basis of the property to $0. ABC then sells the property for $440. ABC allocates $330 of the gain to A (75 percent of $440) and allocates $110 of the gain to B (25 percent of $440). No gain is allocated to C.
(ii)
Application of gain limitation.
Each partner's share of depreciation with respect to the property is $100. C's share of the total gain from the disposition of the property, however, is $0. As a result, under the gain limitation provision in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, C's share of section 1245(a)(1) gain is limited to $0.
(iii)
Excess depreciation recapture.
Under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the $100 of section 1245(a)(1) gain that cannot be allocated to C under the gain limitation provision (excess depreciation recapture) is allocated to A and B (the partners not subject to the gain limitation at the time of the allocation) in proportion to their relative shares of total gain from the disposition of the property. A's relative share of the total gain allocated to A and B is 75 percent ($330 of $440 total gain). B's relative share of the total gain allocated to A and B is 25 percent ($110 of $440 total gain). However, under the gain limitation provision of paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, B cannot be allocated 25 percent of the excess depreciation recapture ($25) because that would result in a total allocation of $125 of depreciation recapture to B (a $100 allocation equal to B's share of depreciation plus a $25 allocation of excess depreciation recapture), which is in excess of B's share of the total gain from the disposition of the property ($110). Therefore, only $10 of excess depreciation recapture is allocated to B and the remaining $90 of excess depreciation recapture is allocated to A. A is not subject to the gain limitation because A's share of the total gain ($330) still exceeds A's share of section 1245(a)(1) gain ($190). Accordingly, all $110 of the total gain allocated to B is treated as ordinary income ($100 share of depreciation allocated to B plus $10 of excess depreciation recapture) and $190 of the total gain allocated to A is treated as ordinary income ($100 share of depreciation allocated to A plus $90 of excess depreciation recapture).

# Example 3. Determination of partners' shares of depreciation with respect to contributed property.
(i)
Facts.
C and D form partnership CD as equal partners. C contributes depreciable personal property C1 with an adjusted tax basis of $800 and a fair market value of $2,800. Prior to the contribution, C claimed $200 of depreciation from C1. At the time of the contribution, C1 is depreciable under the straight-line method and has four years remaining on its 5-year recovery period. D contributes $2,800 cash, which CD uses to purchase depreciable personal property D1, which is depreciable over seven years under the straight-line method. (To simplify the example, all depreciation is determined without regard to any first-year depreciation conventions.)
(ii)
Traditional method.
C1 generates $700 of book depreciation (
1/4
of $2,800 book value) and $200 of tax depreciation (
1/4
of $800 adjusted tax basis) each year. C and D will each be allocated $350 of book depreciation from C1 in year 1. Under the traditional method of making section 704(c) allocations, D will be allocated the entire $200 of tax depreciation from C1 in year 1. D1 generates $400 of book and tax depreciation each year (
1/7
of $2,800 book value and adjusted tax basis). C and D will each be allocated $200 of book and tax depreciation from D1 in year 1. As a result, after the first year of partnership operations, C's share of depreciation with respect to C1 is $200 (the depreciation taken by C prior to contribution) and D's share of depreciation with respect to C1 is $200 (the amount of tax depreciation allocated to D). C and D each have a $200 share of depreciation with respect to D1. At the end of four years, C's share of depreciation with respect to C1 will be $200 (the depreciation taken by C prior to contribution) and D's share of depreciation with respect to C1 will be $800 (four years of $200 depreciation per year). At the end of four years, C and D will each have an $800 share of depreciation with respect to D1 (four years of $200 depreciation per year).
(iii)
Effect of curative allocations.
(A)
Year 1.
If the partnership elects to make curative allocations under § 1.704-3(c) using depreciation from D1, the results will be the same as under the traditional method, except that $150 of the $200 of tax depreciation from D1 that would be allocated to C under the traditional method will be allocated to D as additional depreciation with respect to C1. As a result, after the first year of partnership operations, C's share of depreciation with respect to C1 will be reduced to $50 (the total depreciation taken by C prior to contribution ($200) decreased by the amount of the curative allocation to D ($150)). D's share of depreciation with respect to C1 will be $350 (the depreciation allocated to D under the traditional method ($200) increased by the amount of the curative allocation to D ($150)). C and D will each have a $200 share of depreciation with respect to D1.
(B)
Year 4.
At the end of four years, C's share of depreciation with respect to C1 will
be reduced to $0 (the total depreciation taken by C prior to contribution ($200) decreased, but not below zero, by the amount of the curative allocations to D ($600)), and D's share of depreciation with respect to C1 will be $1,400 (the total depreciation allocated to D under the traditional method ($800) increased by the amount of the curative allocations to D ($600)). However, CD's section 1245(a)(1) gain with respect to C1 will not be more than $1,000 (CD's tax depreciation ($800) plus C's tax depreciation prior to contribution ($200)). Under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(C)(
4
) of this section, because the partners' shares of depreciation with respect to C1 exceed the adjustments reflected in the property's adjusted basis, CD's section 1245(a)(1) gain will be allocated in proportion to the partners' relative shares of depreciation with respect to C1. Because C's share of depreciation with respect to C1 is $0, and D's share of depreciation with respect to C1 is $1,400, all of CD's $1,000 of section 1245(a)(1) gain will be allocated to D. At the end of four years, C and D will each have an $800 share of depreciation with respect to D1 (four years of $200 depreciation per year).
(iv)
Effect of remedial allocations.
(A)
Year 1.
If the partnership elects to make remedial allocations under § 1.704-3(d), there will be $600 of book depreciation from C1 in year 1. (Under the remedial allocation method, the amount by which C1's book basis ($2,800) exceeds its tax basis ($800) is depreciated over a 5-year life, rather than a 4-year life.) C and D will each be allocated one-half ($300) of the total book depreciation. As under the traditional method, D will be allocated all $200 of tax depreciation from C1. Because the ceiling rule would cause a disparity of $100 between D's book and tax allocations of depreciation, D will also receive a $100 remedial allocation of depreciation with respect to C1, and C will receive a $100 remedial allocation of income with respect to C1. As a result, after the first year of partnership operations, D's share of depreciation with respect to C1 is $300 (the depreciation allocated to D under the traditional method ($200) increased by the amount of the remedial allocation ($100)). C's share of depreciation with respect to C1 is $100 (the total depreciation taken by C prior to contribution ($200) decreased by the amount of the remedial allocation of income ($100)). C and D will each have a $200 share of depreciation with respect to D1.
(B)
Year 5.
At the end of five years, C's share of depreciation with respect to C1 will be $0 (the total depreciation taken by C prior to contribution ($200) decreased, but not below zero, by the total amount of the remedial allocations of income to C ($600)). D's share of depreciation with respect to C1 will be $1,400 (the total depreciation allocated to D under the traditional method ($800) increased by the total amount of the remedial allocations of depreciation to D ($600)). However, CD's section 1245(a)(1) gain with respect to C1 will not be more than $1,000 (CD's tax depreciation ($800) plus C's tax depreciation prior to contribution ($200)). Under paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(C)(
4
) of this section, because the partners' shares of depreciation with respect to C1 exceed the adjustments reflected in the property's adjusted basis, CD's section 1245(a)(1) gain will be allocated in proportion to the partners' relative shares of depreciation with respect to C1. Because C's share of depreciation with respect to C1 is $0, and D's share of depreciation with respect to C1 is $1,400, all of CD's $1,000 of section 1245(a)(1) gain will be allocated to D. At the end of five years, C and D will each have a $1,000 share of depreciation with respect to D1 (five years of $200 depreciation per year).
(iv)
Effective date.
This paragraph (e)(2) is effective for properties acquired by a partnership on or after August 20, 1997. However, partnerships may rely on this paragraph (e)(2) for properties acquired before August 20, 1997 and disposed of on or after August 20, 1997.
(3)(i) If (
a
) a partner had a special basis adjustment under section 743(b) in respect of section 1245 property, or (
b
) on the date he acquired his partnership interest by way of a sale or exchange (or upon death of another partner) the partnership owned section 1245 property and an election under section 754 (relating to optional adjustment to basis of partnership property) was in effect with respect to the partnership, then the amount of gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1) by him upon a disposition by the partnership of such property shall be determined under this subparagraph.
(ii) There shall be allocated to such partner, in the same proportion as the partnership's total gain is allocated to him as his distributive share under section 704, a portion of (
a
) the common partnership adjusted basis for the property, and (
b
) the amount realized by the partnership upon the disposition, or, if nothing is realized, the fair market value of the property. There shall also be allocated to him, in the same proportion as the partnership's gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1) is allocated under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph as his distributive share of such gain, a portion of
the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis
(as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1245-2)
of such property. If on the date he acquired his partnership interest by way of a sale or exchange the partnership owned such property and an election under section 754 was in effect, then for purposes of the preceding sentence the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of such property on such date shall be deemed to be zero. For special rules relating to the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of property after partnership transactions, see paragraph (c)(6) of § 1.1245-2.
(iii) The partner's adjusted basis in respect of the property shall be deemed to be (
a
) the portion of the partnership's adjusted basis for the property allocated to the partner under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, (
b
) increased by the amount of any special basis adjustment described in section 743(b)(1) (or decreased by the amount of any special basis adjustment described in section 743(b)(2) which the partner may have in respect of the property on the date the partnership disposed of the property.
(iv) The partner's recomputed basis in respect of the property shall be deemed to be (
a
) the sum of the partner's adjusted basis for the property, as determined in subdivision (iii) of this subparagraph, plus the amount of
the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis
(as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1245-2) for the property allocated to the partner under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, (
b
) increased by the amount by which any special basis adjustment described in section 743(b)(1) (or decreased by the amount by which any special basis adjustment described in section 743(b)(2)) in respect of the property was reduced, but only to the extent such amount was applied to adjust the amount of the deductions allowed or allowable to the partner for depreciation or amortization of section 1245 property attributable to periods referred to in paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1245-2. The terms
allowed or allowable, depreciation or amortization,
and
attributable to periods
shall have the meanings assigned to these terms in paragraph (a) of § 1.1245-2.
(4) The application of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
A, B, and C each hold a one-third interest in calendar year partnership ABC. On December 31, 1962, the firm holds section 1245 property which has an adjusted basis of $30,000 and a recomputed basis of $33,000. Depreciation deductions in respect of the property for 1962 were $3,000. On January 1, 1963, when D purchases C's partnership interest, the election under section 754 is in effect and a $5,000 special basis adjustment is made in respect of D to his one-third share of the common partnership adjusted basis for the property. For 1963 and 1964 the partnership deducts $6,000 as depreciation in respect of the property, thereby reducing its adjusted basis to $24,000, and D deducts $2,800, i.e., his distributive share of partnership depreciation ($2,000) plus depreciation in respect of his special basis adjustment ($800). On March 15, 1965, the partnership sells the property for $48,000. Since the partnership's recomputed basis for the property ($33,000, i.e., $24,000 adjusted basis plus $9,000 in depreciation deductions) is lower than the amount realized upon the sale ($48,000), the excess of recomputed basis over adjusted basis, or $9,000, is treated as partnership gain under section 1245(a)(1). D's distributive share of such gain is $3,000 (
1/3
of $9,000). However, the amount of gain recognized by D under section 1245 (a)(1) is only $2,800, determined as follows:
(1) Adjusted basis:
D's portion of partnership adjusted basis (
1/3
of $24,000)
$8,000
D's special basis adjustment as of December 31, 1964 ($5,000 minus $800)
4,200
D's adjusted basis
$12,200
(2) Recomputed basis:
D's adjusted basis
12,200
D's portion of partnership depreciation for 1963 and 1964, i.e., for periods after he acquired his partnership interest (
1/3
of $6,000)
2,000
Depreciation for 1963 and 1964 in respect of D's special basis adjustment
800
D's recomputed basis
15,000
(3) D's portion of amount realized by partnership (
1/3
of $48,000)
16,000
(4) Gain recognized to D under section 1245(a)(1), i.e., the lower of (2) or (3), minus (1)
2,800
[T.D. 6832, 30 FR 8576, July 7, 1965, as amended by T.D. 7084, 36 FR 268, Jan. 8, 1971; T.D. 7141, 36 FR 18793, Sept. 22, 1971; T.D. 8730, 62 FR 44216, Aug. 20, 1997]
§ 1.1245-2
Definition of recomputed basis.
(a)
General rule
—(1)
Recomputed basis defined.
The term
recomputed basis
means, with respect to any property, an amount equal to the sum of:
(i) The adjusted basis of the property, as defined in section 1011, plus
(ii) The amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis.
(2)
Definition of adjustments reflected in adjusted basis.
The term
adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis
means:
(i) With respect to any property other than property described in subdivision (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this subparagraph, the amount of the adjustments attributable to periods after December 31, 1961,
(ii) With respect to an elevator or escalator, the amount of the adjustments attributable to periods after June 30, 1963,
(iii) With respect to livestock (described in subparagraph (4) of § 1.1245-3(a)), the amount of the adjustments attributable to periods after December 31, 1969, or
(iv) [Reserved]
which are reflected in the adjusted basis of such property on account of deductions allowed or allowable for depreciation or amortization (within the meaning of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph). For cases where the taxpayer can establish that the amount allowed for any period was less than the amount allowable, see subparagraph (7) of this paragraph. For determination of adjusted basis of property in a multiple asset account, see paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.167(a)-8.
(3)
Meaning of depreciation or amortization.
(i) For purposes of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the term
depreciation or amortization
includes allowances (and amounts treated as allowances) for depreciation (or amortization in lieu thereof), and deductions for amortization of emergency facilities under section 168. Thus, for example, such term includes a reasonable allowance for exhaustion, wear and tear (including a reasonable allowance for obsolescence) under section 167, an expense allowance (additional first-year depreciation allowance for property placed in service before January 1, 1981), under section 179, an expenditure treated as an amount allowed under section 167 by reason of the application of section 182(d)(2)(B) (relating to expenditures by farmers for clearing land), and a deduction for depreciation of improvements under section 611 (relating to depletion). For further examples, the term
depreciation or amortization
includes periodic deductions referred to in § 1.162-11 in respect of a specified sum paid for the acquisition of a leasehold and in respect of the cost to a lessee of improvements on property of which he is the lessee. However, such term does not include deductions for the periodic payment of rent.
(ii) The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
On January 1, 1966, Smith purchases for $1,000, and places in service, an item of property described in section 1245(a) (3)(A). Smith deducts an additional first-year allowance for depreciation under section 179 of $200. Accordingly, the basis of the property for purposes of depreciation is $800 on January 1, 1966. Between that date and January 1, 1974, Smith deducts $640 in depreciation (the amount allowable) with respect to the property, thereby reducing its adjusted basis to $160. Since this adjusted basis reflects deductions for depreciation and amortization (within the meaning of this subparagraph) amounting to $840 ($200 plus $640), the recomputed basis of the property is $1,000 ($160 plus $840).
(4)
Adjustments of other taxpayers or in respect of other property.
(i) For purposes of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the adjustments reflected in adjusted basis on account of depreciation or amortization which must be taken into account in determining recomputed basis are not limited to those adjustments on account of depreciation or amortization with respect to the property disposed of, nor are such adjustments limited to those on account of depreciation or amortization allowed or allowable to the taxpayer disposing of such property. Except as provided in subparagraph (7) of this paragraph, all such adjustments are taken into account, whether the deductions were allowed or allowable in respect of the same or other property and whether to the taxpayer or to any other person. For manner of determining the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of property immediately after certain dispositions, see paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii) The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
On January 1, 1966, Jones purchases machine X for use in his trade or business. The machine, which is section 1245 property, has a basis for depreciation of $10,000. After taking depreciation deductions of $2,000 (the amount allowable), Jones transfers the machine to his son as a gift on January 1, 1968. Since the exception for gifts in section 1245(b)(1) applies, Jones does not recognize gain under section 1245(a)(1). The son's adjusted basis for the machine is $8,000. On January 1, 1969, after taking a depreciation deduction of $1,000 (the amount allowable), the son exchanges machine X for machine Y in a like kind exchange described in section 1031. Since the exception for like kind exchanges in section 1245(b)(4) applies, the son does not recognize gain under section 1245(a)(1). The son's adjusted basis for machine Y is $7,000. In 1969, the son takes a depreciation deduction of $1,000 (the amount allowable) in respect of machine Y. The son sells machine Y on June 30, 1970. No depreciation was allowed or allowable for 1970, the year of the sale. The recomputed basis of machine Y on June 30, 1970, is determined in the following manner:
Adjusted basis
$6,000
Adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis:
Depreciation deducted by Jones for 1966 and 1967 on machine X
2,000
Depreciation deducted by son for 1968 on machine X
1,000
Depreciation deducted by son for 1969 on machine Y
1,000
Total adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis
$4,000
Recomputed basis
10,000
(5)
Adjustments reflected in adjusted basis of property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B).
For purposes of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B), on account of depreciation or amortization which must be taken into account in determining recomputed basis, may include deductions attributable to periods during which the property is not used as an integral part of an activity, or does not constitute a facility, specified in section 1245(a)(3)(B) (i) or (ii). Thus, for example, if depreciation deductions taken with respect to such property after December 31, 1961, amount to $10,000 (the amount allowable), of which $6,000 is attributable to periods during which the property is used as an integral part of a specified activity or constitutes a specified facility, then the entire $10,000 of depreciation deductions are adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis for purposes of determining recomputed basis. Moreover, if the property was never so used but was acquired in a transaction to which section 1245(b)(4) (relating to like kind exchanges and involuntary conversions) applies, and if by reason of the application of paragraph (d)(3) of § 1.1245-4 the property is considered as section 1245 property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B), then the entire $10,000 of depreciation deductions would also be adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis for purposes of determining recomputed basis.
(6)
Allocation of adjustments attributable to periods after certain dates.
(i) For purposes of determining recomputed basis, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of property other than property described in subparagraph (2) (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this paragraph are limited to adjustments attributable to periods after December 31, 1961. Accordingly, if depreciation deducted with respect to such property of a calendar year taxpayer is $1,000 a year (the amount allowable) for each of 10 years beginning with 1956, only the depreciation deducted in 1962 and succeeding years shall be treated as reflected in the adjusted basis for purposes of determining recomputed basis. With respect to a taxable year beginning in 1961 and ending in 1962, the deduction for depreciation or amortization shall be ascertained by applying the principles stated in paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.167(a)-8 (relating to determination of adjusted basis of retired asset). The amount of the deduction, determined in such manner, shall be allocated on a daily basis in order to determine the portion thereof which is attributable to a period after December 31, 1961. Thus, for example, if a taxpayer, whose fiscal year ends on May 31, 1962, acquires section 1245 property on November 12, 1961, and the deduction for depreciation attributable to the property for such fiscal year is ascertained (under the principles of paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.167(a)-8) to be $400, then the portion thereof attributable to a period after December 31, 1961, is $302 (
151/200
of $400). If, however, the property were acquired by such taxpayer after December 31, 1961, the
entire deduction for depreciation attributable to the property for such fiscal year would be allocable to a period after December 31, 1961. For treatment of certain normal retirements described in paragraph (e)(2) of § 1.167(a)-8, see paragraph (c) of § 1.1245-6. For principles of determining the amount of adjustments for depreciation or amortization reflected in the adjusted basis of property upon an abnormal retirement of property in a multiple asset account, see paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.167(a)-8.
(ii) For purposes of determining recomputed basis, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of an elevator or escalator are limited to adjustments attributable to periods after June 30, 1963.
(iii) For purposes of determining recomputed basis, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of livestock (described in subparagraph (2)(iii) of this paragraph) are limited to adjustments attributable to periods after December 31, 1969.
(7)
Depreciation or amortization allowed or allowable.
For purposes of determining recomputed basis, generally all adjustments (for periods after Dec. 31, 1961, or, in the case of property described in subparagraph (2) (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this paragraph, for periods after the applicable date) attributable to allowed or allowable depreciation or amortization must be taken into account. See section 1016(a)(2) and the regulations thereunder for the meaning of
allowed
and
allowable.
However, if a taxpayer can establish by adequate records or other sufficient evidence that the amount allowed for depreciation or amortization for any period was less than the amount allowable for such period, the amount to be taken into account for such period shall be the amount allowed. No adjustment is to be made on account of the tax imposed by section 56 (relating to the minimum tax for tax preferences). See paragraph (b) of this section (relating to records to be kept and information to be filed). For example, assume that in the year 1967 it becomes necessary to determine the recomputed basis of property, the $500 adjusted basis of which reflects adjustments of $1,000 with respect to depreciation deductions allowable for periods after December 31, 1961. If the taxpayer can establish by adequate records or other sufficient evidence that he had been allowed deductions amounting to only $800 for the period, then in determining recomputed basis the amount added to adjusted basis with respect to the $1,000 adjustments to basis for the period will be only $800.
(8)
Exempt organizations.
In respect of property disposed of by an organization which is or was exempt from income taxes (within the meaning of section 501(a)), adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis (within the meaning of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) shall include only depreciation or amortization allowed or allowable (i) in computing unrelated business taxable income (as defined in section 512(a), or (ii) in computing taxable income of the organization (or a predecessor organization) for a period during which it was not exempt or, by reason of the application of section 502, 503, or 504, was denied its exemption.
(b)
Records to be kept.
In any case in which it is necessary to determine recomputed basis of an item of section 1245 property, the taxpayer shall have available permanent records of all the facts necessary to determine with reasonable accuracy the amount of such recomputed basis, including the following:
(1) The date, and the manner in which, the property was acquired,
(2) The taxpayer's basis on the date the property was acquired and the manner in which the basis was determined,
(3) The amount and date of all adjustments to the basis of the property allowed or allowable to the taxpayer for depreciation or amortization and the amount and date of any other adjustments by the taxpayer to the basis of the property,
(4) In the case of section 1245 property which has an adjusted basis reflecting adjustments for depreciation or amortization taken by the taxpayer with respect to other property, or by another taxpayer with respect to the same or other property, the information described in subparagraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this paragraph with respect
to such other property or such other taxpayer.
(c)
Adjustments reflected in adjusted basis immediately after certain acquisitions
—(1)
Zero.
(i) If on the date a person acquires property his basis for the property is determined solely by reference to its cost (within the meaning of section 1012), then on such date the amount of the adjustments reflected in his adjusted basis for the property is zero.
(ii) If on the date a person acquires property his basis for the property is determined solely by reason of the application of section 301(d) (relating to basis of property received in corporate distribution) or section 334(a) (relating to basis of property received in a liquidation in which gain or loss is recognized), then on such date the amount of the adjustments reflected in his adjusted basis for the property is zero.
(iii) If on the date a person acquires property his basis for the property is determined solely under the rules of section 334 (b)(2) or (c) relating to basis of property received in certain corporate liquidations), then on such date the amount of the adjustments reflected in his adjusted basis for the property is zero.
(iv) If as of the date a person acquires property from a decedent such person's basis is determined, by reason of the application of section 1014(a), solely by reference to the fair market value of the property on the date of the decedent's death or on the applicable date provided in section 2032 (relating to alternate valuation date), then on such date the amount of the adjustments reflected in his adjusted basis for the property is zero.
(2)
Gifts and certain tax-free transactions.
(i) If property is disposed of in a transaction described in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, then the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property in the hands of a transferee immediately after the disposition shall be an amount equal to:
(
a
) The amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property in the hands of the transferor immediately before the disposition, minus
(
b
) The amount of any gain taken into account under section 1245(a)(1) by the transferor upon the disposition.
(ii) The transactions referred to in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section are:
(A) A disposition that is in part a sale or exchange and in part a gift (see § 1.1245-4(a)(3));
(B) A disposition (other than a disposition to which section 1245(b)(6)(A) applies) that is described in section 1245(b)(3) (relating to certain tax-free transactions);
(C) An exchange described in § 1.1245-4(e)(2) (relating to transfers described in section 1081(d)(1)(A)); or
(D) A transfer at death where the basis of property in the hands of the transferee is determined under section 1022.
(iii) The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
Jones transfers section 1245 property to a corporation in exchange for stock of the corporation and $1,000 cash in a transaction which qualifies under section 351 (relating to transfer to a corporation controlled by transferor). Before the exchange the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property is $3,000. Upon the exchange $1,000 gain is recognized under section 1245(a)(1). Immediately after the exchange, the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property in the hands of the corporation is $2,000 (that is, $3,000 minus $1,000).
(3)
Certain transfers at death.
(i) If property is acquired in a transfer at death to which section 1245(b)(2) applies, the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of property in the hands of the transferee immediately after the transfer shall be the amount (if any) of depreciation or amortization deductions allowed the transferee before the decedent's death, to the extent that the basis of the property (determined under section 1014(a)) is required to be reduced under the second sentence of section 1014(b)(9) (relating to adjustments to basis where property is acquired from a decedent prior to his death).
(ii) The provisions of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
H purchases section 1245 property in 1965 which he immediately conveys to
himself and W, his wife, as tenants by the entirety. Under local law each spouse is entitled to one-half the income from the property. H and W file joint income tax returns for calendar years 1965, 1966, and 1967. Over the 3 years, depreciation deductions amounting to $4,000 (the amount allowable) are allowed in respect of the property of which one-half thereof, or $2,000, is allocable to W. On January 1, 1968, H dies and the entire value of the property at the date of death is included in H's gross estate. Since W's basis for the property (determined under section 1014(a)) is reduced (under the second sentence of section 1014(b)(9)) by the $2,000 depreciation deductions allowed W before H's death, the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property in the hands of W immediately after H's death amount to $2,000.
(4)
Property received in a like kind exchange, involuntary conversion, or F.C.C. transaction.
(i) If property is acquired in a transaction described in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph then immediately after the acquisition (and before applying subparagraph (5) of this paragraph, if applicable) the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property acquired shall be an amount equal to:
(
a
) The amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property disposed of immediately before the disposition, minus
(
b
) The sum of (
1
) the amount of any gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1) upon the disposition, plus (
2
) the amount of gain (if any) referred to in subparagraph (5)(ii) of this paragraph.
(ii) The transactions referred to in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph are:
(
a
) A disposition which is a like kind exchange or an involuntary conversion to which section 1245(b)(4) applies, or
(
b
) A disposition to which the provisions of section 1071 and paragraph (e)(1) of § 1.1245-4 apply.
(iii) The provisions of subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Smith exchanges machine A for machine B and $1,000 cash in a like kind exchange. Gain of $1,000 is recognized under section 1245(a)(1). If before the exchange the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of machine A was $5,000, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of machine B after the exchange is $4,000 (that is, $5,000 minus $1,000).

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that machine A is destroyed by fire, that $5,000 in insurance proceeds are received of which $4,000 is used to purchase machine B, and that Smith properly elects under section 1033(a)(3)(A) to limit recognition of gain. The result is the same as in example (1), that is, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of machine B is $4,000 ($5,000 minus $1,000).
(iv) If more than one item of section 1245 property is acquired in a transaction referred to in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, the total amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted bases of the items acquired shall be allocated to such items in proportion to their respective adjusted bases.
(5)
Property after a reduction in basis pursuant to election under section 1071 or application of section 1082(a)(2).
If the basis of section 1245 property is reduced pursuant to an election under section 1071 (relating to gain from sale or exchange to effectuate policies of F.C.C.), or the application of section 1082(a)(2) (relating to sale or exchange in obedience to order of S.E.C.), then immediately after the basis reduction the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property shall be the sum of:
(i) The amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property immediately before the basis reduction (but after applying subparagraph (4) of this paragraph, if applicable), plus
(ii) The amount of gain which was not recognized under section 1245(a)(1) by reason of the reduction in the basis of the property. See paragraph (e)(1) of § 1.1245-4.
(6)
Partnership property after certain transactions.
(i) For the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of property immediately after certain distributions of the property by a partnership to a partner, see section 1245(b)(6)(B).
(ii) If under paragraph (b)(3) of § 1.751-1 (relating to certain distributions of partnership property other than section 751 property treated as sales or exchanges) a partnership is treated as purchasing section 1245 property (or a portion thereof) from a distributee who relinquishes his interest in such property (or portion), then on the date of such purchase the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of
such purchased property (or portion) shall be zero.
(iii) See paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of § 1.1245-1 for the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of partnership property in respect of a partner who acquired his partnership interest in certain transactions when an election under section 754 (relating to optional adjustments to basis of partnership property) was in effect.
(d)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies on and after January 19, 2017. For rules before January 19, 2017, see § 1.1245-2 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016.
[T.D. 6832, 30 FR 8578, July 7, 1965, as amended by T.D. 7084, 36 FR 268, Jan. 8, 1971; T.D. 7141, 36 FR 18793, Sept. 22, 1971; 36 FR 19160, Sept. 30, 1971; T.D. 7564, 43 FR 40496, Sept. 12, 1978; T.D. 8121, 52 FR 414, Jan. 6, 1987; T.D. 9811, 82 FR 6241, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 1.1245-3
Definition of section 1245 property.
(a)
In general.
(1) The term
section 1245 property
means any property (other than livestock excluded by the effective date limitation in subparagraph (4) of this paragraph) which is or has been property of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation provided in section 167 and which is either:
(i) Personal property (within the meaning of paragraph (b) of this section),
(ii) Property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B) (see paragraph (c) of this section), or
(iii) An elevator or an escalator within the meaning of subparagraph (C) of section 48(a)(1) (relating to the definition of
section 38 property
for purposes of the investment credit), but without regard to the limitations in such subparagraph (C).
(2) If property is section 1245 property under a subdivision of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, a leasehold of such property is also section 1245 property under such subdivision. Thus, for example, if A owns personal property which is section 1245 property under subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph, and if A leases the personal property to B, B's leasehold is also section 1245 property under such provision. For a further example, if C owns and leases to D for a single lump-sum payment of $100,000 property consisting of land and a fully equipped factory building thereon, and if 40 percent of the fair market value of such property is properly allocable to section 1245 property, then 40 percent of D's leasehold is also section 1245 property. A leasehold of land is not section 1245 property.
(3) Even though property may not be of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation in the hands of the taxpayer, such property may nevertheless be section 1245 property if the taxpayer's basis for the property is determined by reference to its basis in the hands of a prior owner of the property and such property was of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation in the hands of such prior owner, or if the taxpayer's basis for the property is determined by reference to the basis of other property that in the hands of the taxpayer was property of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation, or if the taxpayer's basis for the property is determined under section 1022 and such property was of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation in the hands of the decedent. Thus, for example, if a father uses an automobile in his trade or business during a period after December 31, 1961, and then gives the automobile to his son as a gift for the son's personal use, the automobile is section 1245 property in the hands of the son.
(4) Section 1245 property includes livestock, but only with respect to taxable years beginning after December 31, 1969. For purposes of section 1245, the term
livestock
includes horses, cattle, hogs, sheep, goats, and mink and other furbearing animals, irrespective of the use to which they are put or the purpose for which they are held.
(b)
Personal property defined.
The term
personal property
means:
(1) Tangible personal property (as defined in paragraph (c) of § 1.48-1, relating to the definition of
section 38 property
for purposes of the investment credit), and
(2) Intangible personal property.
(c)
Property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B).
(1) The term
property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B)
means tangible property of the requisite depreciable character other than personal property (and other than a building
and its structural components), but only if there are adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property (within the meaning of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1245-2) for a period during which such property (or other property):
(i) Was used as an integral part of manufacturing, production, or extraction, or as an integral part of furnishing transportation, communications, electrical energy, gas, water, or sewage disposal services by a person engaged in a trade or business of furnishing any such service, or
(ii) Constituted a research or storage facility used in connection with any of the foregoing activities.
Thus, even though during the period immediately preceding its disposition the property is not used as an integral part of an activity specified in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph and does not constitute a facility specified in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, such property is nevertheless property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B) if, for example, there are adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property for a period during which the property was used as an integral part of manufacturing by the taxpayer or another taxpayer, or for a period during which other property (which was involuntarily converted into, or exchanged in a like kind exchange for, the property) was so used by the taxpayer or another taxpayer. For rules applicable to involuntary conversions and like kind exchanges, see paragraph (d)(3) of § 1.1245-4.
(2) The language used in subparagraph (1) (i) and (ii) of this paragraph shall have the same meaning as when used in paragraph (a) of § 1.48-1, and the terms
building
and
structural components
shall have the meanings assigned to those terms in paragraph (e) of § 1.48-1.
(d)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies on and after January 19, 2017. For rules before January 19, 2017, see § 1.1245-3 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016.
[T.D. 6832, 30 FR 8580, July 7, 1965, as amended by T.D. 7141, 36 FR 18794, Sept. 22, 1971; T.D. 9811, 82 FR 6241, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 1.1245-4
Exceptions and limitations.
(a)
Exception for gifts
—(1)
General rule.
Section 1245(b)(1) provides that no gain shall be recognized under section 1245(a)(1) upon a disposition by gift. For purposes of this paragraph (a), the term
gift
means, except to the extent that paragraph (a)(3) of this section applies, a transfer of property that, in the hands of the transferee, has a basis determined under the provisions of section 1015(a) or 1015(d) (relating to basis of property acquired by gifts) or section 1022 (relating to basis of property acquired from certain decedents who died in 2010). For reduction in amount of charitable contribution in case of a gift of section 1245 property, see section 170(e) and the regulations thereunder.
(2)
Examples.
The provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
A places section 1245 property in trust to pay the income from the property to B for his life, and after B's death to distribute the property to C. If the basis of the property to the fiduciary and to C is determined under the uniform basis rules prescribed in paragraph (b) of § 1.1015-1, and under paragraph (c) of § 1.1015-1 the time the fiduciary and C acquire their interests in the property is the time the donor relinquished dominion over the property, then section 1245(a)(1) does not apply to the transfer by A to the trust or to the distribution to C.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that the fiduciary sells the section 1245 property and reinvests the proceeds in other section 1245 property which is distributed to C upon B's death. Assume further that under paragraph (f) of § 1.1015-1 C's basis for the distributed property is the cost or other basis to the fiduciary. Section 1245(a)(1) applies to the sale but not to the distribution.
(3)
Disposition in part a sale or exchange and in part a gift.
Where a disposition of property is in part a sale or exchange and in part a gift, the gain to which section 1245(a)(1) applies is the amount by which (i) the lower of the amount realized upon the disposition of the property or the recomputed basis of the property, exceeds (ii) the adjusted basis of the property. For determination of the recomputed basis of the property in the hands of the transferee, see paragraph (c)(2) of § 1.1245-2.
(4)
Example.
The provisions of subparagraph (3) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
(i) Smith transfers section 1245 property, which he has held in excess of 1 year (6 months for taxable years beginning before 1977; 9 months for taxable years beginning in 1977), to his son for $60,000. Immediately before the transfer the property in the hands of Smith has an adjusted basis of $30,000, a fair market value of $90,000, and a recomputed basis of $110,000. Since the amount realized upon disposition of the property ($60,000) is lower than its recomputed basis ($110,000), the excess of the amount realized over adjusted basis, or $30,000, is treated as ordinary income under section 1245(a)(1) and not as gain from the sale or exchange of property described in section 1231. Smith has made a gift of $30,000 ($90,000 fair market value minus $60,000 amount realized) to which section 1245(a)(1) does not apply.
(ii) Immediately before the transfer, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property was $80,000. Under paragraph (c)(2) of § 1.1245-2, $50,000 of adjustments are reflected in the adjusted basis of the property immediately after the transfer, that is, $80,000 of such adjustments immediately before the transfer, minus $30,000 gain taken into account under section 1245(a)(1) upon the transfer. Thus, the recomputed basis of the property in the hands of the son is $110,000.
(b)
Exception for transfers at death
—(1)
General rule.
Section 1245(b)(2) provides that, except as provided in section 691 (relating to income in respect of a decedent), no gain shall be recognized under section 1245(a)(1) upon a transfer at death. For purposes of this paragraph, the term
transfer at death
means a transfer of property which, in the hands of the transferee, has a basis determined under the provisions of section 1014(a) (relating to basis of property acquired from a decedent) because of the death of the transferor. For recomputed basis of property acquired in a transfer at death, see paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of § 1.1245-2.
(2)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Smith owns section 1245 property which, upon Smith's death, is inherited by his son. Since the property is described in section 1014(b)(1), its basis in the hands of the son is determined under the provisions of section 1014(a). Therefore, section 1245(a)(1) does not apply to the transfer at Smith's death.

# Example 2.
H purchases section 1245 property which he conveys to himself and W, his wife, as tenants by the entirety. Upon H's death in 1970 the property (including W's share) is included in his gross estate. Since the entire property is described in section 1014(b) (1) and (9), its basis in the hands of W is determined under the provisions of section 1014(a). Therefore, section 1245(a)(1) does not apply to the transfer at H's death. For determination of the recomputed basis of the property in the hands of W, see paragraph (c)(3) of § 1.1245-2.

# Example 3.
Green's will provides for the bequest of section 1245 property to trustees to pay the income from the property to his wife for her lifetime, and upon her death to distribute the property to his son. If under paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1014-4 the son's unadjusted basis for the property is its fair market value at the time the decedent died, section 1245(a)(1) does not apply to the distribution of the property to the son.

# Example 4.
The trustee of a trust created by will transfers section 1245 property to a beneficiary in satisfaction of a specific bequest of $10,000. If under the principles of paragraph (a)(3) of § 1.1014-4 the trust realizes a taxable gain upon the transfer, section 1245(a)(1) applies to the transfer.
(c)
Limitation for certain tax-free transactions
—(1)
Limitation on amount of gain.
Section 1245(b)(3) provides that upon a transfer of property described in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the amount of gain taken into account by the transferor under section 1245(a)(1) shall not exceed the amount of gain recognized to the transferor on the transfer (determined without regard to section 1245). For purposes of this subparagraph, in case of a transfer of both section 1245 property and non-section 1245 property in one transaction, the amount realized from the disposition of the section 1245 property (as determined under paragraph (a)(5) of § 1.1245-1) shall be deemed to consist of that portion of the fair market value of each property acquired which bears the same ratio to the fair market value of such acquired property as the amount realized from the disposition of the section 1245 property bears to the total amount realized. The preceding sentence shall be applied solely for purposes of computing the portion of the total gain (determined without regard to section 1245) which shall be recognized as ordinary income under section
1245(a)(1). For determination of the recomputed basis of the section 1245 property in the hands of the transferee, see paragraph (c)(2) of § 1.1245-2. Section 1245(b)(3) does not apply to a disposition of property to an organization (other than a cooperative described in section 521) which is exempt from the tax imposed by chapter 1 of the Code.
(2)
Transfers covered.
The transfers referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph are transfers of property in which the basis of the property in the hands of the transferee is determined by reference to its basis in the hands of the transferor by reason of the application of any of the following provisions:
(i) Section 332 (relating to distributions in complete liquidation of an 80-percent-or-more controlled subsidiary corporation). See subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.
(ii) Section 351 (relating to transfer to a corporation controlled by transferor).
(iii) Section 361 (relating to exchanges pursuant to certain corporate reorganizations).
(iv) Section 371(a) (relating to exchanges pursuant to certain receivership and bankruptcy proceedings).
(v) Section 374(a) (relating to exchanges pursuant to certain railroad reorganizations).
(vi) Section 721 (relating to transfers to a partnership in exchange for a partnership interest).
(vii) Section 731 (relating to distributions by a partnership to a partner). For special carryover basis rule, see section 1245(b)(6)(A) and paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(3)
Complete liquidation of subsidiary.
In the case of a distribution in complete liquidation of an 80-percent-or-more controlled subsidiary to which section 332 applies, the limitation provided in section 1245(b)(3) is confined to instances in which the basis of the property in the hands of the transferee is determined, under section 334(b)(1), by reference to its basis in the hands of the transferor. Thus, for example, the limitation of section 1245(b)(3) may apply in respect of a liquidating distribution of section 1245 property by an 80-percent-or-more controlled corporation to the parent corporation, but does not apply in respect of a liquidating distribution of section 1245 property to a minority shareholder. Section 1245(b)(3) does not apply to a liquidating distribution of property by an 80-percent-or-more controlled subsidiary to its parent if the parent's basis for the property is determined, under section 334(b)(2), by reference to its basis for the stock of the subsidiary.
(4)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Section 1245 property, which is owned by Smith, has a fair market value of $10,000, a recomputed basis of $8,000, and an adjusted basis of $4,000. Smith transfers the property to a corporation in exchange for stock in the corporation worth $9,000 plus $1,000 in cash in a transaction qualifying under section 351. Without regard to section 1245, Smith would recognize $1,000 gain under section 351(b), and the corporation's basis for the property would be determined under section 362(a) by reference to its basis in the hands of Smith. Since the recomputed basis of the property disposed of ($8,000) is lower than the amount realized ($10,000), the excess of recomputed basis over adjusted basis ($4,000), or $4,000, would be treated as ordinary income under section 1245(a)(1) if the provisions of section 1245(b)(3) did not apply. However, section 1245(b)(3) limits the gain taken into account by Smith under section 1245(a)(1) to $1,000. If, instead, Smith transferred the property to the corporation solely in exchange for stock of the corporation worth $10,000, then, because of the application of section 1245(b)(3), Smith would not take any gain into account under section 1245(a)(1). If, however, Smith transferred the property to the corporation for stock worth $5,000 and $5,000 cash, only $4,000 of the $5,000 gain under section 351(b) would be treated as ordinary income under section 1245(a)(1).

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that Smith contributes the property to a new partnership in which he has a one-half interest. Since, without regard to section 1245, no gain would be recognized to Smith under section 721, and by reason of the application of section 721 the partnership's basis for the property would be determined under section 723 by reference to its basis in the hands of Smith, the application of section 1245(b)(3) results in no gain being taken into account by Smith under section 1245(a)(1).

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in example (2) except that the property is subject to a $9,000 mortgage. Since under section
752(b) (relating to decrease in partner's liabilities) Smith is treated as receiving a distribution in money of $4,500 (one-half of liability assumed by partnership), and since the basis of Smith's partnership interest is $4,000 (the adjusted basis of the contributed property), the $4,500 distribution results in his realizing $500 gain under section 731(a) (relating to distributions by a partnership), determined without regard to section 1245. Accordingly, the application of section 1245(b)(3) limits the gain taken into account by Smith under section 1245(a)(1) to $500.
(d)
Limitation for like kind exchanges and involuntary conversions
—(1)
General rule.
Section 1245(b)(4) provides that if property is disposed of and gain (determined without regard to section 1245) is not recognized in whole or in part under section 1031 (relating to like kind exchanges) or section 1033 (relating to involuntary conversions), then the amount of gain taken into account by the transferor under section 1245(a)(1) shall not exceed the sum of:
(i) The amount of gain recognized on such disposition (determined without regard to section 1245), plus
(ii) The fair market value of property acquired which is not section 1245 property and which is not taken into account under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph (that is, the fair market value of non-section 1245 property acquired which is qualifying property under section 1031 or 1033, as the case may be).
(2)
Examples.
The provisions of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Smith exchanges machine A for machine B in a like kind exchange as to which no gain is recognized under section 1031(a). Both machines are section 1245 property. No gain is recognized under section 1245(a)(1) because of the limitation contained in section 1245(b)(4). The result would be the same if machine A were involuntarily converted into machine B in a transaction as to which no gain is recognized under section 1033(a)(1).

# Example 2.
Jones owns property A, which is section 1245 property, with an adjusted basis of $100,000 and a recomputed basis of $116,000. The property is destroyed by fire and Jones receives $117,000 of insurance proceeds. Thus, the amount of gain under section 1245(a)(1), determined without regard to section 1245(b)(4), would be $16,000. He uses $105,000 of the proceeds to purchase section 1245 property similar or related in service or use to property A, and $9,000 of the proceeds to purchase stock in the acquisition of control of a corporation owning property similar or related in service or use to property A. Both acquisitions qualify under section 1033(a)(3)(A). Jones properly elects under section 1033(a)(3)(A) and the regulations thereunder to limit recognition of gain to the amount by which the amount realized from the conversion exceeds the cost of the stock and other property acquired to replace the converted property. Since $3,000 of the gain is recognized (without regard to section 1245) under section 1033(a)(3) (that is, $117,000 minus $114,000), and since the stock purchased for $9,000 is not section 1245 property and was not taken into account in determining the gain under section 1033, section 1245(b)(4) limits the amount of the gain taken into account under section 1245(a)(1) to $12,000 (that is, $3,000 plus $9,000). If, instead of purchasing $9,000 in stock, Jones purchases $9,000 worth of property which is section 1245 property similar or related in use to the destroyed property, section 1245(b)(4) would limit the amount of gain taken into account under section 1245(a)(1) to $3,000.
(3)
Certain tangible property.
If:
(i) A person disposes of section 1245 property in a transaction to which section 1245(b)(4) applies,
(ii) Adjustments are reflected in the adjusted basis (within the meaning of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1245-2) of such property which are attributable to the use of such property (or other property) as an integral part of an activity, or as a facility, specified in section 1245(a)(3)(B) (i) or (ii), and
(iii) Property is acquired in the transaction which would be considered as section 1245 property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B) if such person used the acquired property as an integral part of such an activity, or as such a facility, then (regardless of the use of the acquired property) the acquired property shall be considered as section 1245 property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B). For definition of property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B), see paragraph (c) of § 1.1245-3. Thus, for example, if a person's section 1245 property (which is personal property) is involuntarily converted into property A which would qualify as section 1245 property only if it were devoted to a specified use, and if the person had so devoted the section 1245 property disposed of, then the acquired property is considered as section 1245 property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B) and
therefore its fair market value is not taken into account under subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph. For recomputed basis of property A, see paragraph (a)(5) of § 1.1245-2. Moreover, if property A is not devoted to a specified use and is subsequently involuntarily converted into property B which would qualify as section 1245 property only if it were so devoted, then property B is also considered as section 1245 property described in section 1245(a)(3)(B).
(4)
Application to disposition of section 1245 property and nonsection 1245 property in one transaction.
For purposes of this paragraph, if both section 1245 property and nonsection 1245 property are acquired as the result of one disposition in which both section 1245 property and nonsection 1245 property are disposed of, then except as provided in subparagraph (7) of this paragraph:
(i) The total amount realized upon the disposition shall be allocated (in a manner consistent with the principles of paragraph (a)(5) of § 1.1245-1) between the section 1245 property and the nonsection 1245 property disposed of in proportion to their respective fair market values.
(ii) The amount realized upon the disposition of the section 1245 property shall be deemed to consist of so much of the fair market value of the section 1245 property acquired as is not in excess of the amount realized from the section 1245 property disposed of, and the remaining portion (if any) of the amount realized upon the disposition of the section 1245 property shall be deemed to consist of so much of the fair market value of the non-section 1245 property acquired as is not in excess of the amount of such remaining portion, and
(iii) The amount realized upon the disposition of the non-section 1245 property shall be deemed to consist of so much of the fair market value of all the property acquired which was not taken into account in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph.
(5)
Example.
The provisions of subparagraph (4) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
(i) Smith owns section 1245 property A with a fair market value of $30,000, and non-section 1245 property X with a fair market value of $20,000. Properties A and X are destroyed by fire and Smith receives insurance proceeds of $40,000. He uses all the proceeds, plus additional cash of $10,000, to purchase in a single transaction properties B and Y which qualify under section 1033(a)(3)(A), and he properly elects under section 1033(a)(3)(A) and the regulations thereunder to limit recognition of gain to the excess of the amount realized from the conversion over the costs of the qualifying properties acquired. Thus no gain would be recognized (without regard to section 1245) under section 1033(a)(3)(A). Property B is section 1245 property with a fair market value of $15,000, and property Y is non-section 1245 property with a fair market value of $35,000.
(ii) The amount realized upon the disposition of A and X ($40,000) is allocated between A and X in proportion to their respective fair market values. Thus, the amount considered realized in respect of A is $24,000 (that is,
30/50
of $40,000). (The amount considered realized in respect of X is $16,000 (that is,
20/50
of $40,000).)
(iii) The $24,000 realized upon the disposition of A is deemed to consist of the fair market value of B ($15,000) and $9,000 of the fair market value of Y. (The $16,000 realized upon the disposition of X is deemed to consist of $16,000 of the fair market value of Y. Also, $10,000 of the fair market value of Y is attributable to the additional cash of $10,000.)
(iv) Assume that A has an adjusted basis of $5,000, and a recomputed basis of $40,000. Since the amount considered realized upon the disposition of A ($24,000) is lower than its recomputed basis ($40,000), the amount of gain which would be recognized under section 1245(a)(1), determined without regard to section 1245(b)(4), is $19,000, that is, the amount realized ($24,000) minus the adjusted basis ($5,000). Since no gain is recognized (without regard to section 1245) under section 1033(a)(3), and since $9,000 of the property acquired in exchange for section 1245 property A is non-section 1245 property Y, section 1245(b)(4) limits the amount of gain taken into account under section 1245(a)(1) to $9,000.
(6)
Cross references.
For the manner of determining the recomputed basis of property acquired in a transaction to which section 1245(b)(4) applies, see paragraph (c)(4) of § 1.1245-2. For the manner of determining the basis of such property, see paragraph (a) of § 1.1245-5.
(7)
Coordination with section 1250.
For purposes of this paragraph, if section 1245 property and section 1250 property are disposed of in one transaction in which the property acquired includes section 1250 property, the allocation
rules of paragraph (d)(6) of § 1.1250-3 shall apply.
(e)
Limitation for section 1071 and 1081 transactions
—(1)
Section 1071 and 1081(b) transactions.
If property is disposed of and gain (determined without regard to section 1245) is not recognized in whole or in part because of the application of section 1071 (relating to gain from sale or exchange to effectuate policies of F.C.C.) or section 1081(b) (relating to gain from sale or exchange in obedience to order of S.E.C.), then the amount of gain taken into account by the transferor under section 1245(a)(1) shall not exceed the sum of:
(i) The amount of gain recognized on such disposition (determined without regard to section 1245),
(ii) In the case of a transaction to which section 1071 applies, the fair market value of property acquired which is not section 1245 property and which is not taken into account under subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, plus
(iii) The amount by which the basis of property, other than section 1245 property, is reduced (pursuant to an election under section 1071 or pursuant to the application of section 1082(a)(2)), and which is not taken into account under subdivision (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph.
(2)
Section 1081(d)(1)(A) transaction.
No gain shall be recognized under section 1245(a)(1) upon an exchange of property as to which gain would not be recognized (without regard to section 1245) because of the application of section 1081(d)(1)(A) (relating to transfers within system group). For recomputed basis of property acquired in a transaction referred to in this subparagraph, see paragraph (c)(2) of § 1.1245-2.
(3)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Corporation X elects under section 1071 to treat a sale of section 1245 property for $100,000 as an involuntary conversion subject to the provisions of section 1033, but does not elect to reduce the basis of depreciable property pursuant to an election under section 1071. The corporation uses $35,000 of the proceeds to purchase section 1245 property and $40,000 to purchase other property. Both properties qualify as replacement property under section 1033. Assuming that the amount of gain under section 1245(a)(1) (determined without regard to this paragraph) would be $70,000, and that $25,000 of gain would be recognized (without regard to section 1245) upon the application of section 1071, the amount of gain taken into account under section 1245(a)(1) is $65,000 ($25,000 plus $40,000).

# Example 2.
(i) Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that the corporation elects under section 1071 to reduce its basis for property of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation under section 167 by the amount of gain which would be recognized without regard to the application of section 1245, that is, by $25,000. Assume further that under section 1071 the corporation may reduce the basis of depreciable property consisting of property A, which is section 1245 property with an adjusted basis of $30,000, and property B, which is property other than section 1245 property with an adjusted basis of $20,000. Under paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1071-3, the $25,000 of unrecognized gain is applied to reduce the basis of property A by $15,000 (30,000/50,000 of $25,000) and the basis of property B by $10,000 (20,000/50,000 of $25,000).
(ii) The amount of gain which would be recognized (determined without regard to section 1245) under section 1071 is zero, i.e., the amount determined in example (1) ($25,000), minus the amount of the reduction in basis of depreciable property pursuant to the election ($25,000). The amount of gain taken into account under section 1245(a)(1) is $50,000, i.e., the sum of (
a
) the gain which would be recognized without regard to section 1245 (zero), (
b
) the cost of property acquired which is not section 1245 property ($40,000), plus (c) the amount by which the basis of property B is reduced ($10,000). For method of increasing basis of property B, see paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.1245-5, and for recomputed basis of property A, see paragraph (c)(5) of § 1.1245-2.
(f)
Limitation for property distributed by a partnership
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of section 1245(b)(3) (relating to certain tax-free transactions), the basis of section 1245 property distributed by a partnership to a partner shall be deemed to be determined by reference to the adjusted basis of such property to the partnership.
(2)
Adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis.
If section 1245 property is distributed by a partnership to a partner, then, for purposes of determining the recomputed basis of the property in the hands of the distributee, the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property immediately after the distribution shall be an amount equal to:
(i) The potential section 1245 income (as defined in paragraph (c)(4) of § 1.751-1) of the partnership in respect of the property immediately before the distribution, reduced by
(ii) The portion of such potential section 1245 income which is recognized as ordinary income to the partnership under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of § 1.751-1.
(3)
Examples.
The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
(i) A machine, which is section 1245 property owned by partnership ABC, has an adjusted basis of $9,000, a recomputed basis of $18,000, and a fair market value of $15,000. Since the fair market value of the machine is lower than its recomputed basis, the potential section 1245 income in respect of the machine is the excess of fair market value over adjusted basis, or $6,000. The partnership distributes the machine to C in a complete liquidation of his partnership interest to which section 736(a) does not apply. C, who had originally contributed the machine to the partnership, has a basis for his partnership interest of $10,000. Since section 751(b)(2)(A) provides that section 751(b)(1) does not apply to a distribution of property to the partner who contributed the property, no gain would be recognized to the partnership under section 731(b) (without regard to the application of section 1245). By reason of the application of section 731, C's basis for the property would, under section 732(b), be equal to his basis for his interest in the partnership, or $10,000.
(ii) Since section 731 applies to the distribution, and since subparagraph (1) of this paragraph provides that, for purposes of section 1245(b)(3), C's basis for the property is deemed to be determined by reference to the adjusted basis of the property to the partnership, the gain taken into account under section 1245(a)(1) by the partnership is limited by section 1245(b)(3) so as not to exceed the amount of gain which would be recognized to the partnership if section 1245 did not apply. Accordingly, the partnership does not recognize any gain under section 1245(a)(1) upon the distribution.
(iii) Immediately after the distribution, the amount of the adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property is equal to $6,000 (that is, the potential section 1245 income of the partnership in respect of the property before the distribution, $6,000, minus the gain recognized by the partnership under section 751(b), zero). Accordingly, C's recomputed basis for the property is $16,000 (that is, adjusted basis, $10,000, plus adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis, $6,000).

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that the machine had been purchased by the partnership. Assume further that upon the distribution, the partnership recognizes $4,000 gain as ordinary income under section 751(b). Under section 1245(b)(3), gain to be taken into account under section 1245(a)(1) by the partnership is limited to $4,000. Immediately after the distribution, the amount of adjustments reflected in the adjusted basis of the property is $2,000 (that is, potential section 1245 income of the partnership, $6,000, minus gain recognized to the partnership under section 751(b), $4,000). Thus, if the adjusted basis of the machine in the hands of C were $11,333 (see, for example, the computation in paragraph (d)(2) of example (6) of paragraph (g) of § 1.751-1), the recomputed basis of the machine would be $13,333 ($11,333 plus $2,000).
(g) [Reserved]
(h)
Timber property subject to amortization under section 194
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of section 1245(a)(2), in determining the recomputed basis of property with respect to which a deduction under section 194 was allowed for any taxable year, a taxpayer shall not take into account amortization deductions claimed under section 194 to the extent such deductions are attributable to the amortizable basis (within the meaning of section 194(c)(2)) of the taxpayer acquired before the tenth taxable year preceding the taxable year in which gain with respect to the property is recognized.
(2)
Example.
The principles of paragraph (h)(1) of this section are illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
Assume A owns qualified timber property (as defined in section 194(c)(1)) with a basis of $30,000. In 1981, A incurs $12,000 of qualifying reforestation expenditures and elects to amortize the maximum $10,000 of such expenses under section 194. The $10,000 of deductions are taken during the 8-year period from 1981 to 1988. If A sells the property in 1990 for $60,000 a gain of $28,000 ($60,000—adjusted basis of $32,000) is recognized on the sale. Since the sale took place within 10 years of the taxable year in which the reforestation expenditures were made, $10,000 of the gain is treated as ordinary income, and the remaining $18,000 of gain would be capital gain, if it otherwise qualifies for capital gain treatment. In order to avoid ordinary income treatment of the gain attributable to the reforestation expenditures incurred in 1981, A would have to wait until 1992 to dispose of the property.
(i)
Effective/applicability date.
This section applies on and after January 19, 2017. For rules before January 19, 2017,
see § 1.1245-4 as contained in 26 CFR part 1 revised as of April 1, 2016.
[T.D. 6832, 30 FR 8581, July 7, 1965, as amended by T.D. 7084, 36 FR 268, Jan. 8, 1971; T.D. 7207, 37 FR 20799, Oct. 14, 1972; T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980; T.D. 7927, 48 FR 55851, Dec. 16, 1983; T.D. 9811, 82 FR 6241, Jan. 19, 2017]
§ 1.1245-5
Adjustments to basis.
In order to reflect gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1), the following adjustments to the basis of property shall be made:
(a)
Property acquired in like kind exchange or involuntary conversion.
(1) If property is acquired in a transaction to which section 1245(b)(4) applies, its basis shall be determined under the rules of section 1031(d) or 1033(c).
(2) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
Jones exchanges property A, which is section 1245 property with an adjusted basis of $10,000, for property B, which has a fair market value of $9,000, and property C, which has a fair market value of $3,500, in a like kind exchange as to which no gain would be recognized under section 1031(a). Upon the exchange $2,500 gain is recognized under section 1245(a)(1), since property C is not section 1245 property. See section 1245(b)(4). Under the rules of section 1031(d), the basis of the properties received in the exchange is $12,500 (i.e., the basis of property transferred, $10,000, plus the amount of gain recognized, $2,500), of which the amount allocated to property C is $3,500 (the fair market value thereof), and the residue, $9,000, is allocated to property B.
(b)
Sections 1071 and 1081 transactions.
(1) If property is acquired in a transaction to which section 1071 and paragraph (e)(1) of § 1.1245-4 (relating to limitation for section 1071 transactions, etc.) apply, its basis shall be determined in accordance with the principles of paragraph (a) of this section.
(2) If the basis of property, other than section 1245 property, is reduced pursuant to either an election under section 1071 or the application of section 1082(a)(2), then the basis of the property shall be increased to the extent of the gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1) by reason of the application of paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of § 1.1245-4.
[T.D. 6832, 30 FR 8584, July 7, 1965]
§ 1.1245-6
Relation of section 1245 to other sections.
(a)
General.
The provisions of section 1245 apply notwithstanding any other provision of subtitle A of the Code. Thus, unless an exception or limitation under section 1245(b) applies, gain under section 1245(a)(1) is recognized notwithstanding any contrary nonrecognition provision or income characterizing provision. For example, since section 1245 overrides section 1231 (relating to property used in the trade or business), the gain recognized under section 1245(a)(1) upon a disposition will be treated as ordinary income and only the remaining gain, if any, from the disposition may be considered as gain from the sale or exchange of a capital asset if section 1231 is applicable. See example (2) of paragraph (b)(2) of § 1.1245-1. For effect of section 1245 on basis provisions of the Code, see § 1.1245-5.
(b)
Nonrecognition sections overridden.
The nonrecognition provisions of subtitle A of the Code which section 1245 overrides include, but are not limited to, sections 267(d), 311(a), 336, 337, 501(a), 512(b)(5), and 1039. See section 1245(b) for the extent to which section 1245(a)(1) overrides sections 332, 351, 361, 371(a), 374(a), 721, 731, 1031, 1033, 1071, and 1081 (b)(1) and (d)(1)(A). For limitation on amount of adjustments reflected in adjusted basis of property disposed of by an organization exempt from income taxes (within the meaning of section 501(a)), see paragraph (a)(8) of § 1.1245-2.
(c)
Normal retirement of asset in multiple asset account.
Section 1245(a)(1) does not require recognition of gain upon normal retirements of section 1245 property in a multiple asset account as long as the taxpayer's method of accounting, as described in paragraph (e)(2) of § 1.167(a)-8 (relating to accounting treatment of asset retirements), does not require recognition of such gain.
(d)
Installment method.
(1) Gain from a disposition to which section 1245(a)(1) applies may be reported under the installment method if such method is otherwise available under section 453 of the Code. In such case, the income
(other than interest) on each installment payment shall be deemed to consist of gain to which section 1245(a)(1) applies until all such gain has been reported, and the remaining portion (if any) of such income shall be deemed to consist of gain to which section 1245(a)(1) does not apply. For treatment of amounts as interest on certain deferred payments, see section 483.
(2) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
Jones contracts to sell an item of section 1245 property for $10,000 to be paid in 10 equal payments of $1,000 each, plus a sufficient amount of interest so that section 483 does not apply. He properly elects under section 453 to report under the installment method gain of $2,000 to which section 1245(a)(1) applies and gain of $1,000 to which section 1231 applies. Accordingly, $300 of each of the first 6 installment payments and $200 of the seventh installment payment is ordinary income under section 1245(a)(1), and $100 of the seventh installment payment and $300 of each of the last 3 installment payments is gain under section 1231.
(e)
Exempt income.
The fact that section 1245 provides for recognition of gain as ordinary income does not change into taxable income any income which is exempt under section 115 (relating to income of states, etc.), 892 (relating to income of foreign governments), or 894 (relating to income exempt under treaties).
(f)
Treatment of gain not recognized under section 1245.
Section 1245 does not prevent gain which is not recognized under section 1245 from being considered as gain under another provision of the Code, such as, for example, section 311(c) (relating to liability in excess of basis), section 341(f) (relating to collapsible corporations), section 357(c) (relating to liabilities in excess of basis), section 1238 (relating to amortization in excess of depreciation), or section 1239 (relating to gain from sale of depreciable property between certain related persons). Thus, for example, if section 1245 property, which has an adjusted basis of $1,000 and a recomputed basis of $1,500, is sold for $1,750 in a transaction to which section 1239 applies, $500 of the gain would be recognized under section 1245(a)(1) and the remaining $250 of the gain would be treated as ordinary income under section 1239.
[T.D. 6832, 30 FR 8584, July 7, 1965, as amended by T.D. 7084, 36 FR 269, Jan. 8, 1971; T.D. 7400, 41 FR 5101, Feb. 4, 1976]
§ 1.1248-1
Treatment of gain from certain sales or exchanges of stock in certain foreign corporations.
(a)
In general.
(1) If a United States person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30)) recognizes gain on a sale or exchange after December 31, 1962, of stock in a foreign corporation, and if in respect of such person the conditions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph are satisfied, then the gain shall be included in the gross income of such person as a dividend to the extent of the earnings and profits of such corporation attributable to such stock under § 1.1248-2 or 1.1248-3, whichever is applicable, which were accumulated in taxable years of such foreign corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, during the period or periods such stock was held (or was considered as held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) by such person while such corporation was a controlled foreign corporation. See section 1248(a). See § 1.1248-8 for additional rules regarding the attribution of earnings and profits to the stock of a foreign corporation following certain nonrecognition transactions. For computation of earnings and profits attributable to such stock if there are any
lower tier
corporations, see paragraph (a) (3) and (4) of § 1.1248-2 or paragraph (a) of § 1.1248-3, whichever is applicable. In general, the amount of gain to be included in a person's gross income as a dividend under section 1248(a) shall be determined separately for each share of stock sold or exchanged. However, such determination may be made in respect of a block of stock if earnings and profits attributable to the block are computed under § 1.1248-2 or 1.1248-3. See paragraph (b) of § 1.1248-2 and paragraph (a)(5) of § 1.1248-3. For the limitation on the tax attributable to an amount included in an individual's gross income as a dividend under section 1248(a), see section 1248(b) and
§ 1.1248-4. For the treatment, under certain circumstances, of the sale or exchange of stock in a domestic corporation as the sale or exchange of stock held by the domestic corporation in a foreign corporation, see section 1248(e) and § 1.1248-6. For the nonapplication of section 1248 in certain circumstances, see section 1248(g) and paragraph (e) of this section. For the requirement that the person establish the amount of earnings and profits attributable to the stock sold or exchanged and, for purposes of section 1248(b), the amount of certain taxes, see section 1248(h) and § 1.1248-7.
See
§ 1.1411-10(c)(3) for additional rules concerning the application of section 1248 for purposes of section 1411.
(2) In respect of a United States person who sells or exchanges stock in a foreign corporation, the conditions referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph are satisfied only if (i) such person owned, within the meaning of section 958(a), or was considered as owning by applying the rules of ownership of section 958(b), 10 percent or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of such foreign corporation at any time during the 5-year period ending on the date of the sale or exchange, and (ii) at such time such foreign corporation was a controlled foreign corporation (as defined in section 957).
(3) For purposes of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, (i) a foreign corporation shall not be considered to be a controlled foreign corporation at any time before the first day of its first taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, and (ii) the percentage of the total combined voting power of stock of a foreign corporation owned (or considered as owned) by a United States person shall be determined in accordance with the principles of section 951(b) and the regulations thereunder.
(4) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if a foreign partnership sells or exchanges stock of a corporation, the partners in such foreign partnership shall be treated as selling or exchanging their proportionate share of the stock of such corporation. Stock which is considered to have been sold or exchanged by a partner by reason of the application of this paragraph (a)(4) shall for purposes of applying such sentence be treated as actually sold or exchanged by such partner.
(5) The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
Corporation F is a foreign corporation which has outstanding 100 shares of one class of stock. F was a controlled foreign corporation for the period beginning on January 1, 1963, and ending on June 30, 1965, but was not a controlled foreign corporation at any time thereafter. On December 31, 1965, Brown, a United States person who has owned 15 shares of F stock since 1962, sells 7 of his 15 shares and recognizes gain with respect to each share sold. Since Brown owned stock representing at least 10 percent of the total combined voting power of F at a time during the 5-year period ending on December 31, 1965, while F was a controlled foreign corporation, the conditions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph are satisfied. Therefore, section 1248(a) applies to the gain recognized by Brown to the extent of the earnings and profits attributable under § 1.1248-3 to such shares.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1). Assume further that on February 1, 1970, Brown sells the remainder of his shares in F Corporation and recognizes gain with respect to each share sold. Even though Brown did not own stock representing at least 10 percent of the total combined voting power of F on February 1, 1970, nevertheless, in respect of each of the 8 shares of F stock which he sold on such date, the conditions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph are satisfied since Brown owned stock representing at least 10 percent of such voting power at a time during the 5-year period ending on February 1, 1970, while F was a controlled foreign corporation. Therefore, section 1248(a) applies to the gain recognized by Brown to the extent of the earnings and profits attributable under § 1.1248-3 to such shares. If, however, Brown had sold the reminder of his shares in F on July 1, 1970, since the last date on which Brown owned stock representing at least 10 percent of the total combined voting power of F while F was a controlled foreign corporation was June 30, 1965, a date which is not within the 5-year period ending July 1, 1970, the conditions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph would not be satisfied and section 1248(a) would not apply.

# Example 3.
Corporation G, a foreign corporation created in 1950, has outstanding 100 shares of one class of stock and uses the calendar year as its taxable year. Corporation X, a United States person, owns 60 shares of G stock and has owned such stock since G was created. Corporation Y, a United States person, owned 15 shares of the G stock from
1950 until December 1, 1962, on which date it sold 10 of such shares. On December 31, 1963, Y sells its remaining 5 shares of the G stock and recognizes gain on the sale. Since G is not considered to be a controlled foreign corporation at any time before January 1, 1963, and since Y did not own stock representing at least 10 percent of the total combined voting power of G at any time on or after such date, the conditions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph are not satisfied and section 1248(a) does not apply.

# Example 4.
(i)
Facts.
X, a domestic corporation, and Y, a foreign corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation, are partners in foreign partnership Z. X has a 60% interest in Z, and Y has a 40% interest in Z. All parties are calendar year taxpayers. On January 1, year 1, Z forms foreign corporation H, a controlled foreign corporation that conducts a business in Country C. Z and H's functional currency is the United States dollar. In years 1 and 2, H did not earn subpart F income as defined in section 952(a). On December 31, year 2, Z sells all of the H stock for $600 when Z's adjusted basis in the stock is $100. Therefore, Z recognizes a gain of $500 on the sale, of which $300 is allocable to X as a 60% partner. At the time of the sale, H had $300 of earnings and profits, $180 of which (that is, 60% of $300) is attributable to X's 60% share of the H stock.
(ii)
Result.
Pursuant to section 1248(a) and paragraphs (a)(1) and (4) of this section, X and Y are treated as selling 60% and 40%, respectively, of the H stock. X includes in its gross income as a dividend $180 of the gain recognized on the sale. Because Y is a foreign corporation that is not a CFC, neither section 1248 nor section 964 applies to the sale of Y's 40% share of the H stock.
(iii)
Alternative facts.
If, instead, X owned its 60% interest in Z through another foreign partnership, the result would be the same.
(b)
Sale or exchange.
For purposes of section 1248(a), the term sale or exchange includes the receipt of a distribution which is treated as in exchange for stock under section 302(a) (relating to distributions in redemption of stock) or section 331(a) (relating to distributions in complete liquidation of a corporation). For purposes of section 1248(a), gain recognized by a shareholder under section 301(c)(3) in connection with a distribution of property by a corporation with respect to its stock shall be treated as gain from the sale or exchange of stock of such corporation.
(c)
Gain recognized.
Section 1248(a) applies to a sale or exchange of stock in a foreign corporation only if gain is recognized in whole or in part upon the sale or exchange. Thus, for example, if a United States person exchanges stock in a foreign corporation and no gain is recognized on the exchange under section 332, 351, 354, 355, 356, or 361, taking into account the application of section 367, then no amount is includible in the gross income of the person as a dividend under section 1248(a). But see §§ 1.1248(f)-1 and 1.1248(f)-2, providing that a domestic distributing corporation must include in gross income amounts under section 1248(f) as a result of certain foreign stock distributed pursuant to section 337, 355(c)(1), or 361(c)(1) (in certain cases without regard to the amount of gain realized by the domestic distributing corporation in the distribution).
(d)
Credit for foreign taxes.
(1) If a domestic corporation includes an amount in its gross income as a dividend under section 1248(a) upon a sale or exchange of stock in a foreign corporation (referred to as a
first tier
corporation), and if on the date of the sale or exchange the domestic corporation owns directly at least 10 percent of the voting stock of the first tier corporation:
(i) The foreign tax credit provisions of sections 901 through 908 shall apply in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and limitations as if the first tier corporation on such date distributed to the domestic corporation as a dividend that portion of the amount included in gross income under section 1248(a) which does not exceed the earnings and profits of the first tier corporation attributable to the stock under § 1.1248-2 or § 1.1248-3, as the case may be, and
(ii) If on such date such first tier corporation owns directly 50 percent or more of the voting stock of a
lower tier
corporation described in paragraph (a)(3) of § 1.1248-2 or paragraph (a)(3) of § 1.1248-3, as the case may be (referred to as a
second tier
corporation), then the foreign tax credit provisions of sections 901 through 905 shall apply in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and limitations as if on such date (
a
) the domestic corporation owned directly that percentage of the stock in the second tier corporation which such domestic corporation is considered to own by reason of the application of section 958(a)(2), and (
b
)
the second tier corporation had distributed to the domestic corporation as a dividend that portion of the amount included in gross income under section 1248(a) which does not exceed the earnings and profits of the second tier corporation attributable to such stock under § 1.1248-2 or § 1.1248-3, as the case may be.
(2) A credit shall not be allowed under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph in respect of taxes which are not actually paid or accrued. For the inclusion as a dividend in the gross income of a domestic corporation of an amount equal to the taxes deemed paid by such corporation under section 902(a)(1), see section 78.
(3) If subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph applies, and if the amount included in gross income under section 1248(a) upon the sale or exchange of the stock in a first tier corporation described in subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph is less than the sum of the earnings and profits of the first tier corporation attributable to such stock under § 1.1248-2 or § 1.1248-3, as the case may be, plus the earnings and profits of the second tier corporation attributable to such stock under § 1.1248-2 or § 1.1248-3, as the case may be, then the amount considered distributed to the domestic corporation as a dividend shall be determined by multiplying the amount included in gross income under section 1248(a) by:
(i) For purposes of applying subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph, the percentage that (
a
) the earnings and profits of the first tier corporation attributable to such stock under § 1.1248-2 or § 1.1248-3, as the case may be, bears to (
b
) the sum of the earnings and profits of the first tier corporation attributable to such stock under § 1.1248-2 or § 1.1248-3, as the case may be, plus the earnings and profits of the second tier corporation attributable to such stock under § 1.1248-2 or § 1.1248-3, as the case may be, and
(ii) For purposes of applying subparagraph (1)(ii) of this paragraph, the percentage that (
a
) the earnings and profits of the second tier corporation attributable to such stock under § 1.1248-2 or § 1.1248-3, as the case may be, bears to (
b
) the sum referred to in subdivision (i)(
b
) of this subparagraph.
(4) The provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On June 30, 1964, domestic corporation D owns 10 percent of the voting stock of controlled foreign corporation X. On such date, D sells a share of X stock and includes $200 of the gain on the sale in its gross income as a dividend under section 1248(a). X does not own any stock of a lower tier corporation referred to in paragraph (a)(3) of § 1.1248-3. D uses the calendar year as its taxable year and instead of deducting foreign taxes under section 164, D chooses the benefits of the foreign tax credit provisions for 1964. If D had included $200 in its gross income as a dividend with respect to a distribution from X on June 30, 1964, the amount of the foreign income taxes paid by X which D would be deemed to have paid under section 902(a) in respect of such distribution would be $60. Thus, in respect of the $200 included in D's gross income as a dividend under section 1248(a), and subject to the applicable limitations and conditions of sections 901 through 905, D is entitled under this paragraph to a foreign tax credit of $60 for 1964.

# Example 2.
On June 30, 1965, domestic corporation D owns all of the voting stock of foreign corporation Y, and Y (the first tier corporation) owns all of the voting stock of foreign corporation Z (a second tier corporation). On such date, D sells a block of Y stock and includes $400 of the gain on the sale in its gross income as a dividend under section 1248(a). The earnings and profits attributable under § 1.1248-3 to the block are $600 from Y and $1,800 from Z. D uses the calendar year as its taxable year and instead of deducting foreign taxes under section 164, D chooses the benefits of the foreign tax credit provisions for 1965. For purposes of applying the foreign tax credit provisions, Y is considered under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph to have distributed to D a dividend of $100 ($400 × 600/2400) and Z is considered to have so distributed to D a dividend of $300 ($400 × 1800/2400). If D had included $100 in its gross income as a dividend with respect to a distribution from Y on June 30, 1965, the amount of foreign income taxes paid by Y which D would be deemed to have paid under section 902(a) in respect of such distribution is $80. If D had owned the stock in Z directly, and if D had included $300 in its gross income as a dividend with respect to a distribution from Z, the amount of foreign income taxes paid by Z which D would be deemed to have paid under section 902(a) in respect of such distribution is $120. Thus, in respect of the $400 included in D's gross income as a dividend under section 1248(a), and subject to the applicable limitations and conditions of sections 901 through 905, D is entitled under this
paragraph to a foreign tax credit of $200 ($80 plus $120) for 1965.
(e)
Exceptions.
Under section 1248(g), this section and §§ 1.1248-2 through 1.1248-8 do not apply to:
(1) Distributions to which section 303 (relating to distributions in redemption of stock to pay death taxes) applies; or
(2) Any amount to the extent that the amount is, under any other provision of the Internal Revenue Code (Code), treated as—
(i) A dividend;
(ii) Gain from the sale of an asset which is not a capital asset; or
(iii) Gain from the sale of an asset held for not more than 1 year.
(f)
Installment method.
(1) Gain from a sale or exchange to which section 1248 applies may be reported under the installment method if such method is otherwise available under section 453 of the Code. In such case, the income (other than interest) on each installment payment shall be deemed to consist of gain which is included in gross income under section 1248 as a dividend until all such gain has been reported, and the remaining portion (if any) of such income shall be deemed to consist of gain to which section 1248 does not apply. For treatment of amounts as interest on certain deferred payments, see section 483.
(2) The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
Jones contracts to sell stock in a controlled foreign corporation for $5,000 to be paid in 10 equal payments of $500 each, plus a sufficient amount of interest so that section 483 does not apply. He properly elects under section 453 to report under the installment method gain of $1,000 which is includible in gross income under section 1248 as a dividend and gain of $500 which is a long-term capital gain. Accordingly, $150 of each of the first 6 installment payments and $100 of the seventh installment payment are included in gross income under section 1248 as a dividend, and $50 of the seventh installment payment and $150 of each of the last 3 installment payments are long-term capital gain.
(g)
Effective/applicability date.
(1) The third sentence in paragraph (a)(1), paragraph (a)(4), and paragraph (a)(5),
Example 4
, of this section apply to income inclusions that occur on or after July 30, 2007. A taxpayer may elect to apply paragraph (a)(4) of this section to income inclusions in open taxable years provided that it consistently applies paragraph (a)(4) of this section for income inclusions in the first year for which the election is applicable and in all subsequent years.
(2) Paragraph (b) of this section applies to distributions that occur on or after February 10, 2009.
(3) Paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section apply to transactions occurring on or after April 18, 2013.
[T.D. 6779, 29 FR 18130, Dec. 22, 1964, as amended by T.D. 7728, 45 FR 72650, Nov. 3, 1980; T.D. 7961, 49 FR 26225, June 27, 1984; T.D. 9345, 72 FR 41444, July 30, 2007; T.D. 9444, 74 FR 6828, Feb. 11, 2009; T.D. 9585, 77 FR 24381, Apr. 24, 2012; T.D. 9614, 78 FR 17041, Mar. 19, 2013; T.D. 10004, 89 FR 58285, July 18, 2024]
§ 1.1248-2
Earnings and profits attributable to a block of stock in simple cases.
(a)
General
—(1)
Manner of computation.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of § 1.1248-1, if a United States person sells or exchanges a block of stock (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section) in a foreign corporation, and if the conditions of paragraph (c) of this section are satisfied in respect of the block, then the earnings and profits attributable to the block which were accumulated in taxable years of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, during the period such block was held (or was considered to be held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) by such person while such corporation was a controlled foreign corporation, shall be computed in accordance with the steps set forth in subparagraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this paragraph.
(2)
Step 1.
(i) For each taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, the earnings and profits accumulated for each such taxable year by the corporation shall be computed in the manner prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section, and (ii) for the period the person held (or is considered to have held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) the block, the amount of earnings and profits attributable to the block shall be computed in the manner
prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section.
(3)
Step 2.
If the conditions of paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section must be satisfied in respect of stock in a
lower tier
foreign corporation which such person owns within the meaning of section 958(a)(2), then (i) the earnings and profits accumulated for each such taxable year by such lower tier corporation shall be computed in the manner prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section, and (ii) for the period the person held (or is considered to have held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) the block, the amount of earnings and profits of the lower tier corporation attributable to the block shall be computed in the manner prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section applied as if such person owned directly the percentage of such stock in such lower tier corporation which such person owns within the meaning of section 958(a)(2).
(4)
Step 3.
The amount of earnings and profits attributable to the block shall be the sum of the amounts computed under steps 1 and 2.
(b)
Block of stock.
For purposes of this section, the term
block of stock
means a group of shares sold or exchanged in one transaction, but only if:
(1) The amount realized, basis, and holding period are identical for each such share, and
(2) In case, during the period the person held (or is considered to have held by reason of the application of section 1223) such shares, any amount was included under section 951 in the gross income of the person (or another person) in respect of the shares, the excess under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section (computed as if each share were a block) is identical for each such share.
(c)
Conditions to application.
This section shall apply only if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1)(i) On each day of the period during which the block of stock was held (or is considered as held by reason of the application of section 1223) by the person during taxable years of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, the corporation is a controlled foreign corporation, and
(ii) On no such day is the corporation a foreign personal holding company (as defined in section 552) or a foreign investment company (as defined in section 1246(b)).
(2) The corporation had only one class of stock, and the same number of shares of such stock were outstanding, on each day of each taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, any day of which falls within the period referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph.
(3) For each taxable year referred to in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the corporation is not a less developed country corporation (as defined in section 902(d)).
(4) For each taxable year referred to in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the corporation does not make any distributions out of its earnings and profits other than distributions which, under section 316 (as modified by section 959), are considered to be out of earnings and profits accumulated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962, during the period such person held (or is considered to have held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) the block while such corporation was a controlled foreign corporation.
(5)(i) If (
a
) on the date of the sale or exchange such person, by reason of his ownership of such block, owns within the meaning of section 958(a)(2) stock in another foreign corporation (referred to as a
lower tier
corporation), and (
b
) the conditions of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1248-1 would be satisfied by such person in respect of such stock in the lower tier corporation if such person were deemed to have sold or exchanged such stock in the lower tier corporation on the date he actually sold or exchanged such block in the first tier corporation, then the conditions of subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph must be satisfied.
(ii) In respect of stock in such lower tier corporation, (
a
) the conditions set forth in subparagraphs (1) through (4) of this paragraph (applied as if such person owned directly such stock in such lower tier corporation) must be met and (
b
) such person must own within the meaning of section 958(a)(2) the same percentage of the shares of such stock on each day which falls
within the period referred to in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph.
(d)
Earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year
—(1)
General.
For purposes of this section, the earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year of a foreign corporation shall be the earnings and profits for such year computed in accordance with the rules prescribed in § 1.964-1 (relating to determination of earnings and profits for a taxable year of a controlled foreign corporation) and reduced by any distributions therefrom. If the stock in the corporation is sold or exchanged before any action is taken by or on behalf of the corporation under paragraph (c) of § 1.964-1, the computation of earnings and profits under § 1.964-1 for purposes of this section shall be made as if no elections had been made and no accounting method had been adopted.
(2)
Special rules.
(i) The earnings and profits of the corporation accumulated:
(
a
) For any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1967 (computed without any reduction for distributions), shall not include the excess of any item includible in gross income of the foreign corporation under section 882(b) as gross income derived from sources within the United States, and
(
b
) For any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1966 (computed without any reduction for distributions), shall not include the excess of any item includible in gross income of the foreign corporation under section 882(b)(2) as income effectively connected for that year with the conduct by such corporation of a trade or business in the United States, whether derived from sources within or from sources without the United States,
Over any deductions allocable to such item under section 882(c). However, if the sale or exchange of stock in the foreign corporation by the United States person occurs before January 1, 1967, the provisions of (
a
) of this subdivision apply with respect to such sale or exchange even though the taxable year begins after December 31, 1966. See section 1248(d)(4). Any item which is required to be excluded from gross income, or which is taxed at a reduced rate, under an applicable treaty obligation of the United States shall not be excluded under this subdivision from earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year (computed without any reduction for distributions).
(ii) If a foreign corporation adopts a plan of complete liquidation in a taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, and if because of the application of section 337(a) gain or loss would not be recognized by the corporation from the sale or exchange of property if the corporation were a domestic corporation, then the earnings and profits of the corporation accumulated for the taxable year (computed without any reduction for distributions) shall be determined without regard to the amount of such gain or loss. See section 1248(d)(2). For the nonapplication of section 337(a) to a liquidation by a collapsible corporation (as defined in section 341) and to certain other liquidations, see section 337(c).
(e)
Earnings and profits attributable to block
—(1)
General.
Except as provided in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, the earnings and profits attributable to a block of stock of a controlled foreign corporation for the period a United States person held (or is considered to have held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) the block are an amount equal to:
(i) The sum of the earnings and profits accumulated for each taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962 (computed under paragraph (d) of this section) during such period, multiplied by
(ii) The percentage that (
a
) the number of shares in the block, bears to (
b
) the total number of shares of the corporation outstanding during such period.
(2)
Special rule.
For purposes of computing the sum referred to in subparagraph (1)(i) of this paragraph, in case the block was held (or is considered as held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, but not on each day of such taxable year, there shall be included in such sum only that portion which bears the same ratio to (i) the total earnings and profits for such taxable year (computed under
paragraph (d) of this section), as (ii) the number of days during such taxable year the block was held (or is considered as so held), bears to (iii) the total number of days in such taxable year.
(3)
Amounts included in gross income under section 951.
(i) If, during the period the person held (or is considered to have held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) the block, any amount was included under section 951 in the gross income of such person (or of another person whose holding of the stock sold or exchanged is, by reason of the application of section 1223, attributed to such person) in respect of the block, then the earnings and profits attributable to the block for such period shall be an amount equal to (
a
) the earnings and profits attributable to the block which would have been computed under subparagraph (1) of this paragraph if this subparagraph did not apply, reduced by (
b
) the excess computed under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph. See section 1248(d)(1).
(ii) The excess computed under this subdivision is the excess (if any) of (
a
) amounts included under section 951 in the gross income of such person (or such other person) in respect of the block during such period, over (
b
) the portion of such amounts which, in any taxable year of such person (or such other person), resulted in an exclusion from the gross income of such person (or such other person) under section 959(a)(1) (relating to exclusion from gross income of distributions of previously taxed earnings and profits).
(iii) This subparagraph shall apply notwithstanding an election under section 962 by such person to be subject to tax at corporate rates.
(4)
Examples.
The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On May 26, 1965, Green, a United States person, purchases at its fair market value a block of 25 of the 100 outstanding shares of the only class of stock of controlled foreign corporation F. He sells the block on January 1, 1968. In respect of the block, Green did not include any amount in his gross income under section 951. F uses the calendar year as its taxable year and does not own stock in any lower tier corporation referred to in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section. All of the conditions of paragraph (c) of this section are satisfied in respect of the block. The earnings and profits accumulated by F (computed under paragraph (d) of this section) are $10,000 for 1965, $13,000 for 1966, and $11,000 for 1967. The earnings and profits of F attributable to the block are $7,500, determined as follows:
Sum of earnings and profits accumulated by F during period block was held:
For 1965 (219/365 × $10,000)
$6,000
For 1966
$13,000
For 1967
$11,000
Sum
$30,000
Multiplied by:
Number of shares in block (25), divided by total number of shares outstanding (100)
25%
Earnings and profits attributable to block
$7,500

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that in respect of the block Green includes in his gross income under section 951 the total amount of $2,800 for 1965 and 1966, and because of such inclusion the amount of $2,800 which was distributed to Green by F on January 15, 1967, is excluded from his gross income under section 959(a)(1). Accordingly, the earnings and profits of F attributable to the block are $7,000, determined as follows:
Earnings and profits attributable to the block, as computed in example (1)
$7,500
Minus:
Excess of amount included in Green's gross income under section 951 ($2,800), over portion thereof which resulted in an exclusion under section 959(a)(1) ($2,300)
500
Earnings and profits attributable to block
7,000

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that on each day beginning on January 1, 1966 (the date controlled foreign corporation G was organized) through January 1, 1968, F owns 80 of the 100 outstanding shares of the only class of G stock. Since, by reason of his ownership of 25 shares of F stock, Green owns within the meaning of section 958(a)(2) the equivalent of 20 shares of G stock (
25/100
of 80 shares), G is a lower tier corporation referred to in paragraph (c)(5)(i)(
a
) of this section. If Green had sold the 20 shares of G stock on January 1, 1968, the date he actually sold the block of F stock, the conditions of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1248-1 would be satisfied in respect of the G stock, and, accordingly, the conditions of paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section must be satisfied. Assume further that such conditions are satisfied, that G uses the calendar year as its taxable year, and that the earnings and profits accumulated by G (computed under paragraph (d) of this section) are $19,000 for 1966 and $21,000 for 1967. The earnings and profits of F and of G attributable to the block are $15,500, determined as follows:
Sum of earnings and profits accumulated by G for period Green owned G stock within the meaning of section 958(a)(2) ($19,000 plus $21,000)
$40,000
Multiplied by:
Number of G shares deemed owned within the meaning of section 958(a)(2) by Green (20), divided by total number of G shares outstanding (100)
20%
Earnings and profits of G attributable to block
$8,000
Earnings and profits of F attributable to block, as determined in example (1)
$7,500
Total earnings and profits attributable to block
$15,000
[T.D. 6779, 29 FR 18131, Dec. 22, 1964, as amended by T.D. 7293, 38 FR 32803, Nov. 28, 1973; T.D. 9345, 72 FR 41445, July 30, 2007]
§ 1.1248-3
Earnings and profits attributable to stock in complex cases.
(a)
General
—(1)
Manner of computation.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of § 1.1248-1, if a United States person sells or exchanges stock in a foreign corporation, and if the provisions of § 1.1248-2 do not apply, then the earnings and profits attributable to the stock which were accumulated in taxable years of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, during the period or periods such stock was held (or was considered to be held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) by such person while such corporation was a controlled foreign corporation, shall be computed in accordance with the steps set forth in subparagraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this paragraph.
(2)
Step 1.
For each taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, (i) the earnings and profits accumulated for such taxable year by the corporation shall be computed in the manner prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section, (ii) the person's
tentative ratable share
of such earnings and profits shall be computed in the manner prescribed in paragraph (c) or (d) (whichever is applicable) of this section, and (iii) the person's
ratable share
of such earnings and profits shall be computed by adjusting the tentative ratable share in the manner prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section.
(3)
Step 2.
If the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section (relating to earnings and profits of
lower tier
foreign corporations) apply, the amount of the person's ratable share of the earnings and profits accumulated by each
lower tier
corporation attributable to any such taxable year (i) shall be computed in the manner prescribed by paragraph (f) of this section, and (ii) shall be added to such person's ratable share for such taxable year determined in step 1.
(4)
Step 3.
The amount of earnings and profits attributable to the share shall be the sum of the ratable shares computed for each such taxable year in the manner prescribed in steps 1 and 2.
(5)
Share or block.
In general, the computation under this paragraph shall be made separately for each share of stock sold or exchanged, except that if a group of shares constitute a block of stock the computation may be made in respect of the block. For purposes of this section, the term
block of stock
means a group of shares sold or exchanged in one transaction, but only if (i) the amount realized, basis, and holding period are identical for each such share, and (ii) the adjustments (if any) under paragraphs (e) and (f)(5) of this section of the tentative ratable shares would be identical for each such share if such adjustments were computed separately for each such share.
(6)
Deficit in earnings and profits.
For purposes of this section and §§ 1.1248-2 through 1.1248-8, in respect of a taxable year, the term
earnings and profits accumulated
for a taxable year (but only if computed under paragraph (b) of this section) includes a deficit in earnings and profits accumulated for such taxable year. Similarly, a tentative ratable share, or a ratable share, may be a deficit.
(7)
Examples.
The application of the provisions of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On December 31, 1967, Brown sells 10 shares of stock in foreign corporation X, which uses the calendar year as its taxable year. The 10 shares constitute a block of stock under subparagraph (5) of this paragraph. Under step 1, Brown's ratable shares of the earnings and profits of X attributable to the block are as follows:
Taxble year of X
Ratable shares
1963
$100
1964
150
1965
1
50
1966
50
1967
100
Sum
350
1
Deficit.
The amount of the earnings and profits attributable to such block under step 3 is $350.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that in respect of X there are
lower tier
corporations Y and Z to which the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section apply. Brown's ratable shares of the earnings and profits of X, Y, and Z attributable to the block under steps 1 and 2 for each taxable year of X are as follows:
Taxable year of X
Ratable shares
X
Y
Z
Total
1963
$100
$40
$20
$160
1964
150
40
−60
130
1965
−50
30
50
30
1966
50
50
30
130
1967
100
−40
40
100
Sum
350
120
80
550
The amount of the earnings and profits attributable to such block under step 3 is $550.
(b)
Earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year
—(1)
General.
For purposes of this section, the earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year of a foreign corporation shall be the earnings and profits for such year, computed in accordance with the rules prescribed in § 1.964-1 (relating to determination of earnings and profits for a taxable year of a controlled foreign corporation), except that (i) the special rules of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph shall apply, and (ii) adjustments shall be made under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph for distributions made by the corporation during such taxable year. If the stock in the corporation is sold or exchanged before any action is taken by or on behalf of the corporation under paragraph (c) of § 1.964-1, the computation of earnings and profits under § 1.964-1 for purposes of this section shall be made as if no elections had been made and no accounting method had been adopted. The amount of earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year of a foreign corporation, as computed under this paragraph, is not necessarily the same amount as the earnings and profits of the taxable year computed under section 316(a)(1) or paragraph (d) of § 1.1248-2. Thus, for example, if a distribution with respect to stock is in excess of the amount of earnings and profits of the taxable year computed under section 316(a)(2), such excess is treated under section 316(a)(2), or paragraph (d) of § 1.1248-2 as made out of any earnings and profits accumulated in prior taxable years, whereas the amount of such excess may create, or increase, a deficit in the earnings and profits accumulated for the taxable year as computed under this paragraph. See subparagraph (3) of this paragraph.
(2)
Special rules.
(i) The earnings and profits of the corporation accumulated:
(
a
) For any taxable year beginning before January 1, 1967, shall not include the excess of any item includible in gross income of the foreign corporation under section 882(b) as gross income derived from sources within the United States, and
(
b
) For any taxable year beginning after December 31, 1966, shall not include the excess of any item includible in gross income of the foreign corporation under section 882(b)(2) as income effectively connected for that year with the conduct by such corporation of a trade or business in the United States, whether derived from sources within or from sources without the United States,
Over any deductions allocable to such item under section 882(c). However, if the sale or exchange of stock in the foreign corporation by the U.S. person occurs before January 1, 1967, the provisions of (
a
) of this subdivision apply with respect to such sale or exchange even though the taxable year begins after December 31, 1966. See section 1248(d)(4). Any item which is required to be excluded from gross income, or which is taxed at a reduced rate, under an applicable treaty obligation of the United States shall not be excluded under this subdivision from earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year.
(ii) If a foreign corporation adopts a plan of complete liquidation in a taxable year of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, and if because of the application of section 337(a) gain or loss would not be recognized by the corporation from the sale or exchange
of property if the corporation were a domestic corporation, then the earnings and profits of the corporation accumulated for the taxable year shall be determined without regard to the amount of such gain or loss. See section 1248(d)(2). For the nonapplication of section 337(a) to a liquidation by a collapsible corporation (as defined in section 341) and to certain other liquidations, see section 337(c).
(3)
Adjustment for distributions.
(i) The earnings and profits of a foreign corporation accumulated for a taxable year (computed without regard to this subparagraph) shall be reduced (if necessary below zero so as to create a deficit), or a deficit in such earnings and profits shall be increased, by the amount of the distributions (other than in redemption of stock under section 302(a) or 303) made by the corporation in respect of its stock during such taxable year (
a
) out of such earnings and profits, or (
b
) out of earnings and profits accumulated for prior taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962 (computed under this paragraph). Except for purposes of applying this subparagraph, the application of the preceding sentence shall not affect the amount of earnings and profits accumulated for any such prior taxable year.
(ii) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
X Corporation, which uses the calendar year as its taxable year, was organized on January 1, 1965, and was a controlled foreign corporation on each day of 1965. The amount of X's earnings and profits accumulated for 1965 (computed under this paragraph without regard to the adjustment for distributions under this subparagraph) is $400,000, of which $100,000 is distributed by X as dividends during 1965. The amount of X's earnings and profits accumulated for 1965 (computed under this paragraph) is $300,000 (that is, $400,000 minus $100,000). The result would be the same even if X was not a controlled foreign corporation on each day of 1965.

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1). Assume further that the amount of X's earnings and profits accumulated for 1966 (computed under this paragraph without regard to the adjustment for distributions under this subparagraph) is $150,000, and that X distributes the amount of $260,000 as dividends during 1966. Since $150,000 of the distribution is from earnings and profits accumulated for 1966 (computed without regard to the adjustment for distributions under this subparagraph), and since $110,000 is from earnings and profits accumulated for 1965, the earnings and profits of X accumulated for 1966 are a deficit of $110,000 (that is, $150,000 minus $260,000). However, the earnings and profits accumulated for 1965 are still $300,000 for purposes of computing in the manner prescribed in paragraph (c) of this section a person's tentative ratable share.
(c)
Tentative ratable share if earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year not less than zero
—(1)
General rule.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, in respect of a share (or block) of stock in a foreign corporation, if the amount of the earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year of the corporation (computed under paragraph (b) of this section), beginning after December 31, 1962, is not less than zero, then the person's tentative ratable share for such taxable year shall be equal to:
(i)(
a
) Such amount (if the computation is made in respect of a block, multiplied by the number of shares in the block), divided by (
b
) the number of shares in the corporation outstanding, or deemed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph to be outstanding, on each day of such taxable year, multiplied by
(ii) The percentage that (
a
) the number of days in such taxable year of the corporation during the period the person held (or was considered to have held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) the share (or block) while the corporation was a controlled foreign corporation, bears to (
b
) the total number of days in such taxable year.
(2)
Shares deemed outstanding for a taxable year.
For purposes of this section and §§ 1.1248-4 through 1.1248-7, if the number of shares of stock in a foreign corporation outstanding on each day of a taxable year of the corporation is not constant, then the number of such shares deemed outstanding on each such day shall be the sum of the fractional amounts in respect of each share outstanding on any day of the taxable year. The fractional amount in respect of a share shall be determined by dividing (i) the number of days in the taxable year during which such
share was outstanding (excluding the day the share became outstanding, but including the day the share ceased to be outstanding), by (ii) the total number of days in such taxable year.
(3)
Examples.
The application of subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On each day of 1964, S owns a block consisting of 30 of the 100 shares of the only class of stock outstanding in F Corporation, and on each such day F is a controlled foreign corporation. F uses the calendar year as its taxable year and F's earnings and profits accumulated for 1964 (computed under paragraph (b) of this section) are $10,000. S's tentative ratable share with respect to the block is $3,000, computed as follows:
Earnings and profits accumulated for taxable year
$10,000
Multiplied by:
Number of shares in block (30), divided by number of shares outstanding (100)
30%
Multiplied by:
Number of days in 1964 S held block while F was a controlled foreign corporation (365), divided by number of days in 1964 (365)
100%
Tentative ratable share for block
$3,000

# Example 2.
On December 31, 1964, X Corporation, a controlled foreign corporation which uses the calendar year as its taxable year, had 100 shares of one class of stock outstanding, 15 of which were owned by T. T's 15 shares were redeemed by X on March 14, 1965. On December 31, 1965, in addition to the remaining 85 shares, 10 new shares of stock (which were issued on May 26, 1965) were outstanding. Thus, during 1965, 15 shares were outstanding for 73 days, 10 for 219 days, and 85 for 365 days. The earnings and profits (computed under paragraph (b) of this section) accumulated for X's taxable year ending on December 31, 1965, are $18,800. T's tentative ratable share with respect to one share of stock is $40, computed as follows:
Earnings and profits accumulated for taxable year
$18,800
Divided by:
Number of shares deemed outstanding each day of 1965:
15 for 73 days (15 × 73/365)
3
10 for 219 days (10 × 219/365)
6
85 for 365 days (35 × 365/365)
85
Total number of shares deemed outstanding each day of 1965
94
Earnings and profits accumulated per share
$200
Multiplied by:
Number of days in 1965 T held his share while X was a controlled foreign corporation (73), divided by number of days in 1965 (365)
20%
T's tentative ratable share per share of stock
$40

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in example (2) except that X was not a controlled foreign corporation after January 31, 1965. T's tentative ratable share with respect to one share of stock for 1965 is $17, computed as follows:
Earnings and profits accumulated per share, determined in example (2)
$200
Multiplied by:
Number of days in 1965 T held X stock while X was a controlled foreign corporation (31), divided by number of days in 1965 (365)
8.5%
Tentative ratable share
$17
(4)
More than one class of stock.
If a foreign corporation for a taxable year has more than one class of stock outstanding, then before applying subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this paragraph the earnings and profits accumulated for the taxable year of the corporation (computed under paragraph (b) of this section) shall be allocated to each class of stock in accordance with the principles of paragraph (e) (2) and (3) of § 1.951-1, applied as if the corporation were a controlled foreign corporation on each day of such taxable year.
(d)
Tentative ratable share if deficit in earnings and profits accumulated for taxable year
—(1)
General rule.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, in respect of a share (or block) of stock in a foreign corporation, if there is a deficit in the earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year of the corporation (computed under paragraph (b) of this section) beginning after December 31, 1962, the person's tentative ratable share for such taxable year shall be an amount equal to the sum of the partial tentative ratable shares computed under subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this paragraph.
(2)
Operating deficit.
The partial tentative ratable share under this subparagraph is computed in 2 steps. First, compute (under paragraph (b) of this section without regard to the adjustment for distributions under subparagraph (3) thereof) the deficit (if any) in earnings and profits accumulated for such taxable year. Second, compute the partial tentative ratable share in the
same manner as the tentative ratable share for such taxable year would be computed under paragraph (c) of this section if such deficit were the amount referred to in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(
a
) of this section.
(3)
Deficit from distributions.
The partial tentative ratable share under this subparagraph is computed in 2 steps. First, compute and treat as a deficit only that portion of the adjustment for distributions under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for such taxable year which is attributable under subparagraph (4) of this paragraph to distributions out of earnings and profits accumulated during prior taxable years of the corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, during the period or periods the corporation was a controlled foreign corporation and the share (or block) of stock was owned by a United States shareholder (as defined in section 951(b) and the regulations thereunder). Second, compute the partial tentative ratable share for such taxable year in the same manner as the tentative ratable share for such taxable year would be computed under paragraph (c) of this section if (i) such deficit were the amount referred to in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(
a
) of this section, and (ii) the corporation were a controlled foreign corporation on each day of such taxable year.
(4)
Order of distributions.
For purposes of applying subparagraph (3) of this paragraph only, the adjustment for distributions under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for a taxable year of a foreign corporation shall be treated as attributable first to distributions of earnings and profits for the taxable year (computed under paragraph (b) of this section without regard to such adjustment) to the extent thereof, and then to distributions out of the most recent of earnings and profits accumulated during prior taxable years beginning after December 31, 1962 (computed under paragraph (b) of this section). If the foreign corporation was a controlled foreign corporation during a prior taxable year for a period or periods which was only part of such prior taxable year, then for purposes of the preceding sentence (i) such taxable year shall be divided into periods the corporation was or was not a controlled foreign corporation, (ii) distributions of the earnings and profits accumulated during such prior taxable year shall be considered made from the most recent period first, and (iii) the earnings and profits accumulated during such prior taxable year shall be allocated to a period during such year in the same proportion as the number of days in the period bears to the number of days in such year. Except for purposes of applying subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, the application of this subparagraph shall not affect the amount of earnings and profits accumulated for any such prior taxable year (computed under paragraph (b) of this section).
(5)
Examples.
The application of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
On each day of 1965 X Corporation, which uses the calendar year as its taxable year, was a controlled foreign corporation having 100 shares of one class of stock outstanding, a block of 25 of which were owned by T, who acquired them in 1962 and sold them in 1967. The deficit in X's earnings and profits accumulated for 1965 (computed under paragraph (b) of this section without regard to the adjustment for distributions under subparagraph (3) thereof) is $100,000, and thus in respect of the block T's partial tentative ratable share computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph is a deficit of $25,000 (that is, $100,000 × 25/100). During 1965 X does not make any distributions in respect of its stock, and thus in respect of the block T's partial tentative ratable share computed under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph is zero. Accordingly, T's tentative ratable share in respect of the block of X stock for 1965 is a deficit of $25,000. If, however, X was a controlled foreign corporation for only 292 days during 1965, T's tentative ratable share in respect of the block for 1965 would be a deficit of $20,000 (that is, $25,000 × 292/365).

# Example 2.
(i) Assume the same facts as in example (1) except that at no time during 1965 is X a controlled foreign corporation and that during 1965 X distributes $80,000 with respect to its stock. Assume further that X was a controlled foreign corporation on each day of 1964, but only for the first 146 days of 1963, and that X's earnings and profits accumulated for prior taxable years computed under paragraph (b) of this section are $70,000 for 1964 and $20,000 for 1963.
(ii) Since X was not a controlled foreign corporation on any day of 1965, in respect of the block T's partial tentative ratable share computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph is zero.
(iii) The partial tentative ratable share under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph is computed in the following manner: For 1965 the adjustment for distributions under paragraph (b)(3) of this section is $80,000. Under subparagraph (4) of this paragraph $70,000 of such adjustment is attributable to the distribution of all of the earnings and profits accumulated during 1964, on every day of which X was a controlled foreign corporation, and $10,000 of the adjustment is attributable to the distribution of $10,000 of the earnings and profits accumulated for 1963. The portion of the earnings and profits accumulated by X in 1963 attributable to the first 146 days in 1963 during which X was a controlled foreign corporation is $8,000 (that is, $20,000 × 146/365), and the portion attributable to the period in 1963 during which X was not a controlled foreign corporation is $12,000 (that is, $20,000 × 219/365). Under subparagraph (4)(ii) of this paragraph, the distribution in 1965 of $10,000 of earnings and profits accumulated during 1963 is attributable to the more recent period in 1963, that is, the period X was not a controlled foreign corporation. Accordingly, the portion of the adjustment for distributions under paragraph (b)(3) of this section attributable to earnings and profits accumulated during periods X was a controlled foreign corporation is $70,000, and in respect of the block T's partial tentative ratable share under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph is a deficit of $17,500 (that is, $70,000 × 25/100).
(iv) T's tentative ratable share in respect of the block of X stock for 1965 is a deficit of $17,500 (that is, the sum of the partial tentative ratable share for the block computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, zero, plus the partial tentative ratable share for the block computed under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph, a deficit of $17,500).
(v) Assume that X had 100 shares of one class of stock outstanding on each day of 1964 and 1963. Notwithstanding the distributions in 1965 of earnings and profits accumulated during 1964 and 1963 (computed under paragraph (b) of this section), nevertheless, in respect of the block T's tentative ratable share for 1964 is $17,500 (that is, earnings and profits accumulated during 1964 so computed of $70,000, multiplied by 25 shares/100 shares) and in respect of the block T's tentative ratable share for 1963 is $2,000 (that is, earnings and profits accumulated during 1963 so computed of $20,000, multiplied by 25 shares/100 shares, and multiplied by the percentage that the number of days in 1963 on which X was a controlled foreign corporation bears to the total number of days in 1963, 146/365).

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in example (2) except that X was a controlled foreign corporation on each day of 1965. The tentative ratable share with respect to the block of stock for 1965 is a deficit of $42,500, that is, the sum of the partial tentative ratable share under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (as determined in example (1)), a deficit of $25,000, plus the partial tentative ratable share under subparagraph (3) of this paragraph (as determined in example (2)), a deficit of $17,500.
(6)
More than one class of stock.
If a foreign corporation for a taxable year has more than one class of stock outstanding, then before applying subparagraph (1) of this paragraph the earnings and profits accumulated for the taxable year of the corporation (computed under paragraph (b) of this section) shall be allocated to each class of stock in accordance with the principles of paragraph (e) (2) and (3) of § 1.951-1, applied as if the corporation were a controlled foreign corporation on each day of such taxable year.
(e)
Ratable share of earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year
—(1)
In general.
For purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, in respect of a share (or block) of stock in a foreign corporation, the person's ratable share of the earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 1962, shall be an amount equal to the tentative ratable share computed under paragraph (c) or (d) (as the case may be) of this section, adjusted in the manner prescribed in subparagraphs (2) through (6) of this paragraph.
(2)
Amounts included in gross income under section 951.
(i) In respect of a share (or block) of stock in a foreign corporation, a person's tentative ratable share for a taxable year of the corporation (computed under paragraph (c) of this section) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the excess of (
a
) the amount, if any, included (in respect of such corporation for such taxable year) under section 951 in the gross income of such person or (during the period such share, or block, was considered to be held by such person by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) in the gross income of any other person who held such share (or block), over (
b
) the portion of such amount which, in any taxable year of such person or such other person, resulted in an exclusion from the gross income of such person or such other person of an amount under section 959(a)(1) (relating to exclusion
from gross income of distributions of previously taxed earnings and profits). See section 1248(d)(1). This subdivision shall apply notwithstanding an election under section 962 by such person to be subject to tax at corporate rates.
(ii) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
On December 31, 1975, Brown sells one share of stock in X Corporation, a controlled foreign corporation which has never been a less developed country corporation (as defined in section 902(d)). Both Brown and X use the calendar year as the taxable year. In respect of his share, Brown's tentative ratable share for 1971 (computed under paragraph (c) of this section) is $35. In respect of his share, Brown included $4 in his gross income for 1971 under section 951, and the amount of $3, which was distributed to him by X on January 15, 1972, is excluded from Brown's gross income under section 959(a)(1). In respect of the stock, Brown's ratable share for 1971 is $34, determined as follows:
Tentative ratable share
$35
Minus:
Excess of amount of tentative ratable share included in Brown's gross income under section 951 ($4), over portion thereof which resulted in exclusion under section 959(a)(1) ($3)
1
Ratable share
34
(3)
Amounts included in gross income under section 551.
In respect of a share (or block) of stock in a foreign corporation, a person's tentative ratable share for a taxable year of the corporation (computed under paragraph (c) of this section) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the amount, if any, included (in respect of such corporation for such taxable year) under section 551 in the gross income of such person or (during the period such share, or block, was considered to be held by such person by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) in the gross income of any other person who held such share (or block).
(4)
Less developed country corporations.
(i) If the foreign corporation was a less developed country corporation as defined in section 902(d) for a taxable year of the corporation, and if the person who sold or exchanged a share (or block) of stock in such corporation satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a) of § 1.1248-5 in respect of such stock, then his ratable share for such taxable year shall be zero. See section 1248(d)(3).
(ii) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
Assume the same facts as in the example in subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph except that X was a less developed country corporation for 1971. Assume further that Brown satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a) of § 1.1248-5. Brown's ratable share in respect of the stock for 1971 is zero.
(5)
Qualified shareholder of foreign investment company.
In respect of a share (or block) of stock in a foreign corporation which was a foreign investment company described in section 1246 (b)(1), if the election under section 1247(a) to distribute income currently was in effect for a taxable year of the company, and if the person who sold or exchanged the stock (or another person who actually owned the stock during such taxable year and whose holding of the stock is attributed by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8, to the person who sold or exchanged the stock) was a qualified shareholder (as defined in section 1247(c)) for his taxable year in which or with which such taxable year of the company ends, then the ratable share in respect of the share (or block) for such taxable year of the company shall be zero. See section 1248(d)(5). In case gain is recognized under section 1246 in respect of a share (or block), see section 1248(f)(3)(B).
(6)
Adjustment for certain distributions.
If (i) the person who sold or exchanged the share or block (or another person who actually owned the share or block and whose holding of the share or block is attributed by reason of the application of section 1223 to such person, taking into account § 1.1248-8) received a distribution during a taxable year of the corporation, and (ii) such distribution was not included in the gross income of such person (or such other person) by reason of the application of section 959(a)(1) to amounts which were included under section 951(a)(1) in the gross income of a United States shareholder whose holding of the share or block is not attributed by reason of the application of section 1223 to such person, taking into account § 1.1248-8 (or such other person), then the amount of
such distribution shall be added to such person's tentative ratable share for such taxable year. Thus, for example, such tentative ratable share may be increased, or a deficit reduced, by the amount of such distribution.
(f)
Earnings and profits of subsidiaries of foreign corporations
—(1)
Application of paragraph.
(i) In respect of a person who sells or exchanges stock in a foreign corporation (referred to as a
first tier
corporation), the provisions of this paragraph shall apply if the following 3 conditions exist:
(
a
) The conditions of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1248-1 are satisfied by the person in respect of such stock;
(
b
) By reason of his ownership of such stock, on the date of such sale or exchange such person owned, within the meaning of section 958(a)(2), stock in another foreign corporation (referred to as a
lower tier
corporation); and
(
c
) The conditions of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1248-1 would be satisfied by such person in respect of such stock in the lower tier corporation if such person were deemed to have sold or exchanged such stock in the lower tier corporation on the date he actually sold or exchanged such stock in the first tier corporation.
(ii) If the provisions of this paragraph apply, (
a
) the person's tentative ratable share (or shares) of the earnings and profits accumulated by the lower tier corporation attributable to a taxable year of the first tier corporation shall be computed under subparagraph (2) or (4) of this paragraph, whichever is applicable, and (
b
) such person's ratable share (or shares) for the lower tier corporation attributable to a taxable year of the first tier corporation shall be computed under subparagraph (5) of this paragraph. For the manner of taking into account the ratable share for a lower tier corporation, see paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(iii) The application of this subparagraph may be illustrated by the following example:

# Example:
On each day of 1964 and 1965 corporations X and Y are controlled foreign corporations, and each has outstanding 100 shares of one class of stock. On January 15, 1965, T, a United States person, owns one share of stock in X and X directly owns 20 shares of stock in Y. Thus, T owns, within the meaning of section 958(a)(2), stock in Y. On that date, T sells his share in X and satisfies the conditions of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1248-1 in respect of his stock in X. Assuming that the conditions of paragraph (a)(2) of § 1.1248-1 would be satisfied by T in respect of the stock he indirectly owns in Y if, on January 15, 1965, he were deemed to have sold such stock in Y, the provisions of this paragraph apply.
(2)
Tentative ratable share (of lower tier corporation attributable to a taxable year of first tier corporation) not less than zero.
If the provisions of this paragraph apply to a sale or exchange by a United States person of a share (or block) of stock in a first tier corporation, and if the amount of earnings and profits accumulated (computed under paragraph (b) of this section) for a taxable year (beginning after December 31, 1962) of the lower tier corporation is not less than zero, then in respect of the share (or block) such person's tentative ratable share of the earnings and profits accumulated for such taxable year of the lower tier corporation attributable to any taxable year (beginning after December 31, 1962) of such first tier corporation shall be an amount equal to:
(i)(
a
) Such amount of earnings and profits accumulated for such taxable year of the lower tier corporation (if the computation is made in respect of a block in the first tier corporation, multiplied by the number of shares in the block), divided by (
b
) the number of shares in the first tier corporation outstanding, or deemed under paragraph (c)(2) of this section to be outstanding, on each day of such taxable year of the first tier corporation, multiplied by
(ii) The percentage that (
a
) the number of days during the period or periods in such taxable year of the first tier corporation on which such person held (or was considered to have held by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) the share (or block) in the first tier corporation while the first tier corporation owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)) stock of such lower tier corporation at times while such lower tier corporation was a controlled foreign corporation, bears to (
b
) the total number of days in such taxable year of the first tier corporation, multiplied by
(iii) The percentage that (
a
) the average number of shares in the lower tier corporation which were owned within
the meaning of section 958(a) by the first tier corporation during such period or periods (referred to in subdivision (ii)(
a
) of this subparagraph), bears to (
b
) the total number of such shares outstanding, or deemed under the principles of paragraph (c)(2) of this section to be outstanding, during such period or periods, multiplied by
(iv) The percentage that (
a
) the number of days in such taxable year of the lower tier corporation which fall within the taxable year of the first tier corporation, bears to (
b
) the total number of days in such taxable year of the lower tier corporation.
(3)
Examples.
The application of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph may be illustrated by the following examples:

# Example 1.
In a year subsequent to 1969, Brown, a United States person, sells 5 of his shares of stock in X Corporation in a transaction as to which the provisions of this paragraph apply. Brown had purchased the 5 shares prior to 1969. On each day of 1969 X Corporation actually had 100 shares of one class of stock outstanding. On each such day X Corporation directly owned all of the shares of stock in Y Corporation, and Y Corporation directly owned all of the shares of stock in Z Corporation. Z Corporation on each such day was a controlled foreign corporation. Both X and Z use the calendar year as the taxable year. Z's earnings and profits accumulated for 1969 (computed under paragraph (b) of this section) are $2,000. Brown's tentative ratable share of the earnings and profits accumulated by Z attributable to the 1969 calendar year of X is $20 per share, computed as follows:
(i) Z's earnings and profits for 1969 ($2,000), divided by the number of shares in X deemed outstanding each day of 1969 (100)
$20
Multiplied by:
(ii) Since on each day of 1969 Brown (by reason of owning directly his shares in X) owned, within the meaning of section 958(a)(2), stock in Z while Z was a controlled foreign corporation, the percentage determined under subparagraph (2)(ii) of this paragraph equals
100%
Multiplied by:
(iii) Since on each day of 1969 X owned 100 percent of the stock of Y while Y owned 100 percent of the stock in Z, the percentage determined under subparagraph (2)(iii) of this paragraph equals
100%
Multiplied by:
(iv) Since X and Z each use the same taxable year, the percentage determined under subparagraph (2)(iv) of this paragraph equals
100%
Total
$20

# Example 2.
Assume the same facts as in example (1), except that Brown sold his stock in X on October 19, 1969. Brown's tentative ratable share of the earnings and profits accumulated by Z attributable to the 1969 calendar year of X is $16 per share, computed as follows:
(i) The amount determined in subdivision (i) of example (1)
$20
Multiplied by:
(ii) The number of days in the period during 1969 Brown (by reason of owning directly his stock in X) owned, within the meaning of section 958(a)(2), his stock in Z while Z was a controlled foreign corporation (292), divided by the number of days in 1969 (365), equals
80%
Multiplied by:
(iii) The percentage determined in subdivision
(iii) of example (1)
100%
Multiplied by:
(iv) The percentage determined in subdivision
(iv) of example (1)
100%
Total
$16

# Example 3.
Assume the same facts as in examples (1) and (2), except that on each day during 1969 Y owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)(2)) 81 of the 100 shares of Z's outstanding stock. Brown's tentative ratable share of the earnings and profits accumulated by Z attributable to the 1969 calendar year of X is $12.96 per share, computed as follows:
(i) The amount determined in subdivision (i) of example (1)
$20
Multiplied by:
(ii) The percentage determined in subdivision (ii) of example (2)
80%
Multiplied by:
(iii) The average number of shares in Z which were owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)) by X during the applicable period (81), divided by the total number of shares in Z during such period (100)
81%
Multiplied by:
(iv) The percentage determined in subdivision (iv) of example (1)
100%
Total
$12.96
The result would be the same if X owned (within the meaning of section 958(a)(2)) 81 percent of the stock in Y while Y so owned 100 percent of the stock in X, or if X so owned 90 percent of the stock in Y while Y so owned 90 percent of the stock in Z.

# Example 4.
Assume the same facts as in example (3), except that Z Corporation uses a fiscal year ending June 30 as its taxable year. Assume further that Z's earnings and profits accumulated for its fiscal year ending June 30, 1969, and for its fiscal year ending June 30, 1970, are $3,000 and $2,000, respectively. Brown's tentative ratable share of the earnings and profits accumulated by Z attributable to the 1969 calendar year of X is $16.17 per share, computed as follows:
In respect of Z's taxable year ending
June 30, 1969
June 30, 1970
(i) Z's earnings and profits, divided by the number of shares in X deemed outstanding on each day of 1969:
$3,000/100
$30
$2,000/100
$20
Multiplied by:
(ii) The percentage determined in subdivision (ii) of example (2)
80%
80%
Multiplied by:
(iii) The percentage determined in subdivision (iii) of example (3)
81%
81%
Multiplied by:
(iv) Number of days in Z's taxable year which fall within 1969, divided by total number of days in Z's taxable year:
181/365
49.6%
184/365
50.4%
Totals
$9.64
$6.53
(v) Sum of tentative ratable shares of Z attributable to X's 1969 calendar year:
For Z's taxable year ending
June 30, 1969
$9.64
June 30, 1970
$6.53
Sum
$16.17
(4)
Deficit in tentative ratable share of lower tier corporation attributable to a taxable year of first tier corporation.
(i) If there is a deficit in the earnings and profits accumulated for a taxable year of a lower tier corporation beginning after December 31, 1962 (computed under paragraph (b) of this section), the person's tentative ratable share for such taxable year of such lower tier corporation attributable to a taxable year of a first tier corporation shall not be computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph but shall be an amount equal to the sum of the partial tentative ratable shares computed under subdivisions (ii) and (iii) of this subparagraph.
(ii) The partial tentative ratable share under this subdivision is computed in 2 steps. First, compute (under paragraph (b) of this section without regard to the adjustments for distributions under subparagraph (3) thereof) the deficit (if any) in earnings and profits accumulated for such taxable year of such lower tier corporation. Second, compute the partial tentative ratable share in the same manner as such tentative ratable share would be computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph if such deficit were the amount referred to in subparagraph (2)(i)(a) of this paragraph.
(iii) The partial tentative ratable share under this subdivision is computed in 2 steps. First, compute and treat as a deficit the portion of the adjustment for distributions under paragraph (b)(3) of this section for such taxable year which is attributable under paragraph (d)(4) of this section to distributions of earnings and profits accumulated during prior taxable years of the lower tier corporation beginning after December 31, 1962, during the period or periods such lower tier corporation was a controlled foreign corporation and the percentage of the stock of such lower tier corporation (which the person owns within the meaning of section 958(a)(2)) was owned within the meaning of section 958(a) by a United States shareholder (as defined in section 951(b) and the regulations thereunder). Second, compute the partial tentative ratable share in the same manner as such tentative ratable share would be computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph if (a) such deficit were the amount referred to in subparagraph (2)(i)(a) of this paragraph, and (b) such lower tier corporation were a controlled foreign corporation on each day of such taxable year.
(5)
Ratable share of lower tier corporation attributable to a first tier corporation.
(i) If the provisions of this paragraph apply in respect of a share of stock in a first tier corporation, a person's ratable share of the earnings and profits accumulated by the lower tier corporation attributable to a taxable year of the first tier corporation shall be an amount equal to the tentative ratable share computed under subparagraph (2) or (4) of this paragraph, adjusted in the manner prescribed in this subparagraph.
(ii) If the first tier corporation and the lower tier corporation use the same taxable year, then in respect of a share (or block) of stock in the first tier corporation the person's tentative ratable share of the accumulated earnings and profits of the lower tier corporation attributable to the taxable year of the
first tier corporation (computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the excess of (
a
) the amount, if any, included (in respect of such lower tier corporation for its taxable year) under section 951 in the gross income of such person or (during the period such stock was considered to be held by such person by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) in the gross income of any other person who held such stock, over (b) the portion of such amount which, in any taxable year of such person or such other person, resulted in an exclusion from the gross income of such person or such other person of an amount under section 959(a)(1). For an illustration of the principles in the preceding sentence, see the example in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.
(iii) If the first tier corporation and the lower tier corporation do not use the same taxable year, and if there would be an excess computed under subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph in respect of a taxable year of the lower tier corporation (were the taxable years of such corporations the same), then such person's tentative ratable share of the accumulated earnings and profits for a taxable year of the lower tier corporation attributable to such taxable year of the first tier corporation shall be reduced (but not below zero) by an amount which bears the same ratio to (
a
) such excess, as (
b
) the number of days in the taxable year of the lower tier corporation which fall within the taxable year of the first tier corporation, bears to (
c
) the total number of days in the taxable year of the first tier corporation.
(iv) If the first tier corporation and the lower tier corporation use the same taxable year, then in respect of a share (or block) of stock in the first tier corporation the person's tentative ratable share of the accumulated earnings and profits of the lower tier corporation attributable to the taxable year of the first tier corporation (computed under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the amount, if any, included (in respect of such corporation for such taxable year) under section 551, by reason of the application of section 555(b), in the gross income of such person or (during the period such share (or block) was considered to be held by such person by reason of the application of section 1223, taking into account § 1.1248-8) in the gross income of any other person who held such share (or block).
