Jan. 1, 2025
Title 12
Banks and Banking
Parts 900 to 1025
Revised as of January 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of January 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as a Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 12:
Chapter IX [Reserved]
Chapter X—Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
3

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
789
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
809
List of CFR Sections Affected
819
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
12 CFR 1001.1
refers to title 12, part 1001, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, January 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
January 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 12—
Banks and Banking
is composed of ten volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: Parts 1-199, 200-219, 220-229, 230-299, 300-346, 347-599, 600-899, 900-1025, 1026-1099, and 1100-end. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of January 1, 2025.
For this volume, Christine Colaninno was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen J. Frattini.
12 CFR Ch. IX (1-1-25 Edition)
Federal Housing Finance Board

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
(This book contains parts 900 to 1025)
Part
chapter ix [Reserved]
chapter x
—Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
1001
12 CFR Ch. X (1-1-25 Edition)
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

# CHAPTER IX [RESERVED]

# CHAPTER X—CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU
Part
Page
1000
[Reserved]
1001
Financial products or services
5
1002
Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Regulation B)
5
1003
Home mortgage disclosure (Regulation C)
118
1004
Alternative mortgage transaction parity (Regulation D)
181
1005
Electronic fund transfers (Regulation E)
185
1006
Debt Collection Practices (Regulation F)
368
1007
S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act—Federal registration of residential mortgage loan originators (Regulation G)
414
1008
S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act—State compliance and bureau registration system (Regulation H)
422
1009
Disclosure requirements for depository institutions lacking Federal deposit insurance (Regulation I)
436
1010
Land registration (Regulation J)
439
1011
Purchasers' revocation rights, sales practices and standards (Regulation K)
497
1012
Special rules of practice (Regulation L)
501
1013
Consumer leasing (Regulation M)
505
1014
Mortgage acts and practices—Advertising (Regulation N)
531
1015
Mortgage assistance relief services (Regulation O)
534
1016
Privacy of consumer financial information (Regulation P)
541
1022
Fair credit reporting (Regulation V)
576
1024
Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (Regulation X)
674
1025
[Reserved]
PART 1000 [RESERVED]
Pt. 1001

# PART 1001—FINANCIAL PRODUCTS OR SERVICES
Sec.
1001.1
Authority and purpose.
1001.2
Definitions.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A)(xi); and 12 U.S.C. 5512(b)(1).

# Source:
80 FR 37526, June 30, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1001.1
Authority and purpose.
Under 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A)(xi), the Bureau is authorized to define certain financial products or services for purposes of title X of the Dodd-Frank Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010) (Title X) in addition to those defined in 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A)(i)-(x). The purpose of this part is to implement that authority.
§ 1001.2
Definitions.
Except as otherwise provided in Title X, in addition to the definitions set forth in 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A)(i)-(x), the term “financial product or service” means, for purposes of Title X:
(a) Extending or brokering leases of an automobile, as automobile is defined by 12 CFR 1090.108(a), where the lease:
(1) Qualifies as a full-payout lease and a net lease, as provided by 12 CFR 23.3(a), and has an initial term of not less than 90 days, as provided by 12 CFR 23.11; and
(2) Is not a financial product or service under 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A)(ii).
(b) [Reserved]
§ 1001.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 90989, Nov. 18, 2024, § 1001.2 was amended by adding paragraphs (b) and (c), effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 1001.2
Definitions.
(b) Providing financial data processing products or services by any technological means, including processing, storing, aggregating, or transmitting financial or banking data, alone or in connection with another product or service, where the financial data processing is not offered or provided by a person who, by operation of 12 U.S.C. 5481(15)(A)(vii)(I) or (II), is not a covered person.
(c) [Reserved]
Pt. 1002

# PART 1002—EQUAL CREDIT OPPORTUNITY ACT (REGULATION B)

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1002.1
Authority, scope and purpose.
1002.2
Definitions.
1002.3
Limited exceptions for certain classes of transactions.
1002.4
General rules.
1002.5
Rules concerning requests for information.
1002.6
Rules concerning evaluation of applications.
1002.7
Rules concerning extensions of credit.
1002.8
Special purpose credit programs.
1002.9
Notifications.
1002.10
Furnishing of credit information.
1002.11
Relation to state law.
1002.12
Record retention.
1002.13
Information for monitoring purposes.
1002.14
Rules on providing appraisal reports.
1002.15
Incentives for self-testing and self-correction.
1002.16
Enforcement, penalties and liabilities.

# Subpart B—Small Business Lending Data Collection
1002.101
Authority, purpose, and scope.
1002.102
Definitions.
1002.103
Covered applications.
1002.104
Covered credit transactions and excluded transactions.
1002.105
Covered financial institutions and exempt institutions.
1002.106
Business and small business.
1002.107
Compilation of reportable data.
1002.108
Firewall.
1002.109
Reporting of data to the Bureau.
1002.110
Publication of data and other disclosures.
1002.111
Recordkeeping.
1002.112
Enforcement.
1002.113
Severability.
1002.114
Effective date, compliance date, and special transitional rules.
Appendix A to Part 1002—Federal Agencies To Be Listed in Adverse Action Notices
Appendix B to Part 1002—Model Application Forms
Appendix C to Part 1002—Sample Notification Forms
Appendix D to Part 1002—Issuance of Official Interpretations
Appendix E to Part 1002—Sample Form for Collecting Certain Applicant-Provided Data Under Subpart B
Appendix F to Part 1002—Tolerances for Bona Fide Errors in Data Reported Under Subpart B
Supplement I to Part 1002—Official Interpretations

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5512, 5581; 15 U.S.C. 1691b. Subpart B is also issued under 15 U.S.C. 1691c-2.

# Source:
76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1002.1
Authority, scope and purpose.
(a)
Authority and scope.
This part, known as Regulation B, is issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) pursuant to title VII (Equal Credit Opportunity Act) of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
). Except as otherwise provided herein, this subpart applies to all persons who are creditors, as defined in § 1002.2(l), other than a person excluded from coverage of this part by section 1029 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376. Information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and have been assigned OMB No. 3170-0013.
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to promote the availability of credit to all creditworthy applicants without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age (provided the applicant has the capacity to contract); to the fact that all or part of the applicant's income derives from a public assistance program; or to the fact that the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The regulation prohibits creditor practices that discriminate on the basis of any of these factors. The regulation also requires creditors to notify applicants of action taken on their applications; to report credit history in the names of both spouses on an account; to retain records of credit applications; to collect information about the applicant's race and other personal characteristics in applications for certain dwelling-related loans; and to provide applicants with copies of appraisal reports used in connection with credit transactions.
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 35527, May 31, 2023]
§ 1002.2
Definitions.
For the purposes of this part, unless the context indicates otherwise or as otherwise defined in subpart B, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Account
means an extension of credit. When employed in relation to an account, the word use refers only to open-end credit.
(b)
Act
means the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Title VII of the Consumer Credit Protection Act).
(c)
Adverse action.
(1) The term means:
(i) A refusal to grant credit in substantially the amount or on substantially the terms requested in an application unless the creditor makes a counteroffer (to grant credit in a different amount or on other terms) and the applicant uses or expressly accepts the credit offered;
(ii) A termination of an account or an unfavorable change in the terms of an account that does not affect all or substantially all of a class of the creditor's accounts; or
(iii) A refusal to increase the amount of credit available to an applicant who has made an application for an increase.
(2) The term does not include:
(i) A change in the terms of an account expressly agreed to by an applicant;
(ii) Any action or forbearance relating to an account taken in connection with inactivity, default, or delinquency as to that account;
(iii) A refusal or failure to authorize an account transaction at point of sale or loan, except when the refusal is a termination or an unfavorable change in the terms of an account that does not affect all or substantially all of a class of the creditor's accounts, or when the refusal is a denial of an application for an increase in the amount of credit available under the account;
(iv) A refusal to extend credit because applicable law prohibits the creditor from extending the credit requested; or
(v) A refusal to extend credit because the creditor does not offer the type of credit or credit plan requested.
(3) An action that falls within the definition of both paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section is governed by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(d)
Age
refers only to the age of natural persons and means the number of fully elapsed years from the date of an applicant's birth.
(e)
Applicant
means any person who requests or who has received an extension of credit from a creditor, and includes any person who is or may become contractually liable regarding an extension of credit. For purposes of § 1002.7(d), the term includes guarantors, sureties, endorsers, and similar parties.
(f)
Application
means an oral or written request for an extension of credit that is made in accordance with procedures used by a creditor for the type of credit requested. The term application does not include the use of an account or line of credit to obtain an amount of credit that is within a previously established credit limit. A
completed application
means an application in connection with which a creditor has received all the information that the creditor regularly obtains and considers in evaluating applications for the amount and type of credit requested (including, but not limited to, credit reports, any additional information requested from the applicant, and any approvals or reports by governmental agencies or other persons that are necessary to guarantee, insure, or provide security for the credit or collateral). The creditor shall exercise reasonable diligence in obtaining such information.
(g)
Business credit
refers to extensions of credit primarily for business or commercial (including agricultural) purposes, but excluding extensions of credit of the types described in § 1002.3(a)-(d).
(h)
Consumer credit
means credit extended to a natural person primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
(i)
Contractually liable
means expressly obligated to repay all debts arising on an account by reason of an agreement to that effect.
(j)
Credit
means the right granted by a creditor to an applicant to defer payment of a debt, incur debt and defer its payment, or purchase property or services and defer payment therefor.
(k)
Credit card
means any card, plate, coupon book, or other single credit device that may be used from time to time to obtain money, property, or services on credit.
(l)
Creditor
means a person who, in the ordinary course of business, regularly participates in a credit decision, including setting the terms of the credit. The term creditor includes a creditor's assignee, transferee, or subrogee who so participates. For purposes of §§ 1002.4(a) and (b), the term creditor also includes a person who, in the ordinary course of business, regularly refers applicants or prospective applicants to creditors, or selects or offers to select creditors to whom requests for credit may be made. A person is not a creditor regarding any violation of the Act or this part committed by another creditor unless the person knew or had reasonable notice of the act, policy, or practice that constituted the violation before becoming involved in the credit transaction. The term does not include a person whose only participation in a credit transaction involves honoring a credit card.
(m)
Credit transaction
means every aspect of an applicant's dealings with a creditor regarding an application for credit or an existing extension of credit (including, but not limited to, information requirements; investigation procedures; standards of creditworthiness; terms of credit; furnishing of credit information; revocation, alteration, or termination of credit; and collection procedures).
(n)
Discriminate against an applicant
means to treat an applicant less favorably than other applicants.
(o)
Elderly
means age 62 or older.
(p)
Empirically derived and other credit scoring systems
—(1)
A credit scoring system
is a system that evaluates an applicant's creditworthiness mechanically, based on key attributes of the applicant and aspects of the transaction, and that determines, alone or in conjunction with an evaluation of additional information about the applicant,
whether an applicant is deemed creditworthy. To qualify as an
empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound, credit scoring system,
the system must be:
(i) Based on data that are derived from an empirical comparison of sample groups or the population of creditworthy and non-creditworthy applicants who applied for credit within a reasonable preceding period of time;
(ii) Developed for the purpose of evaluating the creditworthiness of applicants with respect to the legitimate business interests of the creditor utilizing the system (including, but not limited to, minimizing bad debt losses and operating expenses in accordance with the creditor's business judgment);
(iii) Developed and validated using accepted statistical principles and methodology; and
(iv) Periodically revalidated by the use of appropriate statistical principles and methodology and adjusted as necessary to maintain predictive ability.
(2) A creditor may use an empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound, credit scoring system obtained from another person or may obtain credit experience from which to develop such a system. Any such system must satisfy the criteria set forth in paragraph (p)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section; if the creditor is unable during the development process to validate the system based on its own credit experience in accordance with paragraph (p)(1) of this section, the system must be validated when sufficient credit experience becomes available. A system that fails this validity test is no longer an empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound, credit scoring system for that creditor.
(q)
Extend credit
and
extension of credit
mean the granting of credit in any form (including, but not limited to, credit granted in addition to any existing credit or credit limit; credit granted pursuant to an open-end credit plan; the refinancing or other renewal of credit, including the issuance of a new credit card in place of an expiring credit card or in substitution for an existing credit card; the consolidation of two or more obligations; or the continuance of existing credit without any special effort to collect at or after maturity).
(r)
Good faith
means honesty in fact in the conduct or transaction.
(s)
Inadvertent error
means a mechanical, electronic, or clerical error that a creditor demonstrates was not intentional and occurred notwithstanding the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid such errors.
(t)
Judgmental system of evaluating applicants
means any system for evaluating the creditworthiness of an applicant other than an empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound, credit scoring system.
(u)
Marital status
means the state of being unmarried, married, or separated, as defined by applicable state law. The term “unmarried” includes persons who are single, divorced, or widowed.
(v)
Negative factor or value,
in relation to the age of elderly applicants, means utilizing a factor, value, or weight that is less favorable regarding elderly applicants than the creditor's experience warrants or is less favorable than the factor, value, or weight assigned to the class of applicants that are not classified as elderly and are most favored by a creditor on the basis of age.
(w)
Open-end credit
means credit extended under a plan in which a creditor may permit an applicant to make purchases or obtain loans from time to time directly from the creditor or indirectly by use of a credit card, check, or other device.
(x)
Person
means a natural person, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or agency, trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association.
(y)
Pertinent element of creditworthiness,
in relation to a judgmental system of evaluating applicants, means any information about applicants that a creditor obtains and considers and that has a demonstrable relationship to a determination of creditworthiness.
(z)
Prohibited basis
means race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract); the fact that all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or the fact that the applicant has in good
faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act or any state law upon which an exemption has been granted by the Bureau.
(aa)
State
means any state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 35527, May 31, 2023]
§ 1002.3
Limited exceptions for certain classes of transactions.
(a)
Public utilities credit
—(1)
Definition.
Public utilities credit refers to extensions of credit that involve public utility services provided through pipe, wire, or other connected facilities, or radio or similar transmission (including extensions of such facilities), if the charges for service, delayed payment, and any discount for prompt payment are filed with or regulated by a government unit.
(2)
Exceptions.
The following provisions of this part do not apply to public utilities credit:
(i) Section 1002.5(d)(1) concerning information about marital status; and
(ii) Section 1002.12(b) relating to record retention.
(b)
Securities credit
(1)
Definition.
Securities credit refers to extensions of credit subject to regulation under section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or extensions of credit by a broker or dealer subject to regulation as a broker or dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(2)
Exceptions.
The following provisions of this part do not apply to securities credit:
(i) Section 1002.5(b) concerning information about the sex of an applicant;
(ii) Section 1002.5(c) concerning information about a spouse or former spouse;
(iii) Section 1002.5(d)(1) concerning information about marital status;
(iv) Section 1002.7(b) relating to designation of name to the extent necessary to comply with rules regarding an account in which a broker or dealer has an interest, or rules regarding the aggregation of accounts of spouses to determine controlling interests, beneficial interests, beneficial ownership, or purchase limitations and restrictions;
(v) Section 1002.7(c) relating to action concerning open-end accounts, to the extent the action taken is on the basis of a change of name or marital status;
(vi) Section 1002.7(d) relating to the signature of a spouse or other person;
(vii) Section 1002.10 relating to furnishing of credit information; and
(viii) Section 1002.12(b) relating to record retention.
(c)
Incidental credit
(1)
Definition.
Incidental credit refers to extensions of consumer credit other than the types described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section:
(i) That are not made pursuant to the terms of a credit card account;
(ii) That are not subject to a finance charge (as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.4); and
(iii) That are not payable by agreement in more than four installments.
(2)
Exceptions.
The following provisions of this part do not apply to incidental credit:
(i) Section 1002.5(b) concerning information about the sex of an applicant, but only to the extent necessary for medical records or similar purposes;
(ii) Section 1002.5(c) concerning information about a spouse or former spouse;
(iii) Section 1002.5(d)(1) concerning information about marital status;
(iv) Section 1002.5(d)(2) concerning information about income derived from alimony, child support, or separate maintenance payments;
(v) Section 1002.7(d) relating to the signature of a spouse or other person;
(vi) Section 1002.9 relating to notifications;
(vii) Section 1002.10 relating to furnishing of credit information; and
(viii) Section 1002.12(b) relating to record retention.
(d)
Government credit
—(1)
Definition.
Government credit refers to extensions of credit made to governments or governmental subdivisions, agencies, or instrumentalities.
(2)
Applicability of regulation.
Except for § 1002.4(a), the general rule against discrimination on a prohibited basis, the requirements of this part do not apply to government credit.
§ 1002.4
General rules.
(a)
Discrimination.
A creditor shall not discriminate against an applicant on a prohibited basis regarding any aspect of a credit transaction.
(b)
Discouragement.
A creditor shall not make any oral or written statement, in advertising or otherwise, to applicants or prospective applicants that would discourage on a prohibited basis a reasonable person from making or pursuing an application.
(c)
Written applications.
A creditor shall take written applications for the dwelling-related types of credit covered by § 1002.13(a).
(d)
Form of disclosures
—(1)
General rule.
A creditor that provides in writing any disclosures or information required by this part must provide the disclosures in a clear and conspicuous manner and, except for the disclosures required by §§ 1002.5 and 1002.13, in a form the applicant may retain.
(2)
Disclosures in electronic form.
The disclosures required by this part that are required to be given in writing may be provided to the applicant in electronic form, subject to compliance with the consumer consent and other applicable provisions of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
). Where the disclosures under §§ 1002.5(b)(1), 1002.5(b)(2), 1002.5(d)(1), 1002.5(d)(2), 1002.13, and 1002.14(a)(2) accompany an application accessed by the applicant in electronic form, these disclosures may be provided to the applicant in electronic form on or with the application form, without regard to the consumer consent or other provisions of the E-Sign Act.
(e)
Foreign-language disclosures.
Disclosures may be made in languages other than English, provided they are available in English upon request.
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7248, Jan. 31, 2013]
§ 1002.5
Rules concerning requests for information.
(a)
General rules
—(1)
Requests for information.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, a creditor may request any information in connection with a credit transaction. This paragraph does not limit or abrogate any Federal or state law regarding privacy, privileged information, credit reporting limitations, or similar restrictions on obtainable information.
(2)
Required collection of information.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, a creditor shall request information for monitoring purposes as required by § 1002.13 for credit secured by the applicant's dwelling. In addition, a creditor may obtain information required by a regulation, order, or agreement issued by, or entered into with, a court or an enforcement agency (including the Attorney General of the United States or a similar state official) to monitor or enforce compliance with the Act, this part, or other Federal or state statutes or regulations.
(3)
Special-purpose credit.
A creditor may obtain information that is otherwise restricted to determine eligibility for a special purpose credit program, as provided in § 1002.8(b), (c), and (d).
(4)
Other permissible collection of information.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, a creditor may collect information under the following circumstances provided that the creditor collects the information in compliance with § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) and accompanying commentary, or appendix B to 12 CFR part 1003, as applicable:
(i) A creditor that is a financial institution under 12 CFR 1003.2(g) may collect information regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant for a closed-end mortgage loan that is an excluded transaction under 12 CFR 1003.3(c)(11) if it submits HMDA data concerning such closed-end mortgage loans and applications or if it submitted HMDA data concerning closed-end mortgage loans for any of the preceding five calendar years;
(ii) A creditor that is a financial institution under 12 CFR 1003.2(g) may collect information regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant for an open-end line of credit that is an excluded transaction under 12 CFR 1003.3(c)(12) if it submits HMDA data concerning such open-end lines of credit and applications or if it submitted HMDA data concerning open-end lines
of credit for any of the preceding five calendar years;
(iii) A creditor that submitted HMDA data for any of the preceding five calendar years but is not currently a financial institution under 12 CFR 1003.2(g) may collect information regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant for a loan that would otherwise be a covered loan under 12 CFR 1003.2(e) if not excluded by 12 CFR 1003.3(c)(11) or (12);
(iv) A creditor that exceeded an applicable loan volume threshold in the first year of the two-year threshold period provided in 12 CFR 1003.2(g), 1003.3(c)(11), or 1003.3(c)(12) may, in the second year, collect information regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant for a loan that would otherwise be a covered loan under 12 CFR 1003.2(e) if the loan were not excluded by 12 CFR 1003.3(c)(11) or (12);
(v) A creditor that is a financial institution under 12 CFR 1003.2(g), or that submitted HMDA data for any of the preceding five calendar years but is not currently a financial institution under 12 CFR 1003.2(g), may collect information regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant for a loan that would otherwise be a covered loan under 12 CFR 1003.2(e) if the loan were not excluded by 12 CFR 1003.3(c)(10).
(vi) A creditor that is collecting information regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant or first co-applicant may collect information regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of a second or additional co-applicant for a covered loan under 12 CFR 1003.2(e) or for a second or additional co-applicant for a loan described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
(vii) A creditor that was required to report small business lending data pursuant to § 1002.109 for any of the preceding five calendar years but is not currently a covered financial institution under § 1002.105(b) may collect information pursuant to subpart B of this part for covered applications from small businesses as defined in §§ 1002.103 and 1002.106(b) regarding whether an applicant is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, or an LGBTQI+-owned business, and the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners if it complies with the requirements for covered financial institutions pursuant to §§ 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), 1002.108, 1002.111, and 1002.112 for that application. Such a creditor is permitted, but not required, to report data to the Bureau collected pursuant to subpart B of this part if it complies with the requirements of subpart B as otherwise required for covered financial institutions pursuant to §§ 1002.109 and 1002.110.
(viii) A creditor that exceeded the loan-volume threshold in the first year of the two-year threshold period provided in § 1002.105(b) may, in the second year, collect information pursuant to subpart B of this part for covered applications from small businesses as defined in §§ 1002.103 and 1002.106(b) regarding whether an applicant is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, or an LGBTQI+-owned business, and the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners if it complies with the requirements for covered financial institutions pursuant to §§ 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), 1002.108, 1002.111, and 1002.112 for that application. Such a creditor is permitted, but not required, to report data to the Bureau collected pursuant to subpart B of this part if it complies with the requirements of subpart B as otherwise required for covered financial institutions pursuant to §§ 1002.109 and 1002.110.
(ix) A creditor that is not currently a covered financial institution under § 1002.105(b), and is not otherwise a creditor to which § 1002.5(a)(4)(vii) or (viii) applies, may collect information pursuant to subpart B of this part for covered applications from small businesses as defined in §§ 1002.103 and 1002.106(b) regarding whether an applicant for a covered credit transaction is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, or an LGBTQI+-owned business, and the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners for a transaction if it complies with the requirements for covered financial institutions pursuant to §§ 1002.107 through 1002.112 for that application.
(x) A creditor that is collecting information pursuant to subpart B of this part or as described in paragraphs (a)(4)(vii) through (ix) of this section
for covered applications from small businesses as defined in §§ 1002.103 and 1002.106(b) regarding whether an applicant for a covered credit transaction is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, or an LGBTQI+-owned business, and the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners may also collect that same information for any co-applicants provided that it also complies with the relevant requirements of subpart B of this part or as described in paragraphs (a)(4)(vii) through (ix) of this section with respect to those co-applicants.
(b)
Limitation on information about race, color, religion, national origin, or sex.
A creditor shall not inquire about the race, color, religion, national origin, or sex of an applicant or any other person in connection with a credit transaction, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1)
Self-test.
A creditor may inquire about the race, color, religion, national origin, or sex of an applicant or any other person in connection with a credit transaction for the purpose of conducting a self-test that meets the requirements of § 1002.15. A creditor that makes such an inquiry shall disclose orally or in writing, at the time the information is requested, that:
(i) The applicant will not be required to provide the information;
(ii) The creditor is requesting the information to monitor its compliance with the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act;
(iii) Federal law prohibits the creditor from discriminating on the basis of this information, or on the basis of an applicant's decision not to furnish the information; and
(iv) If applicable, certain information will be collected based on visual observation or surname if not provided by the applicant or other person.
(2)
Sex.
An applicant may be requested to designate a title on an application form (such as Ms., Miss, Mr., or Mrs.) if the form discloses that the designation of a title is optional. An application form shall otherwise use only terms that are neutral as to sex.
(c)
Information about a spouse or former spouse
—(1)
General rule.
Except as permitted in this paragraph, a creditor may not request any information concerning the spouse or former spouse of an applicant.
(2)
Permissible inquiries.
A creditor may request any information concerning an applicant's spouse (or former spouse under paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section) that may be requested about the applicant if:
(i) The spouse will be permitted to use the account;
(ii) The spouse will be contractually liable on the account;
(iii) The applicant is relying on the spouse's income as a basis for repayment of the credit requested;
(iv) The applicant resides in a community property state or is relying on property located in such a state as a basis for repayment of the credit requested; or
(v) The applicant is relying on alimony, child support, or separate maintenance payments from a spouse or former spouse as a basis for repayment of the credit requested.
(3)
Other accounts of the applicant.
A creditor may request that an applicant list any account on which the applicant is contractually liable and to provide the name and address of the person in whose name the account is held. A creditor may also ask an applicant to list the names in which the applicant has previously received credit.
(d)
Other limitations on information requests
—(1)
Marital status.
If an applicant applies for individual unsecured credit, a creditor shall not inquire about the applicant's marital status unless the applicant resides in a community property state or is relying on property located in such a state as a basis for repayment of the credit requested. If an application is for other than individual unsecured credit, a creditor may inquire about the applicant's marital status, but shall use only the terms
married, unmarried,
and
separated.
A creditor may explain that the category unmarried includes single, divorced, and widowed persons.
(2)
Disclosure about income from alimony, child support, or separate maintenance.
A creditor shall not inquire whether income stated in an application is derived from alimony, child support, or separate maintenance payments unless the creditor discloses to the applicant that such income need
not be revealed if the applicant does not want the creditor to consider it in determining the applicant's creditworthiness.
(3)
Childbearing, childrearing.
A creditor shall not inquire about birth control practices, intentions concerning the bearing or rearing of children, or capability to bear children. A creditor may inquire about the number and ages of an applicant's dependents or about dependent-related financial obligations or expenditures, provided such information is requested without regard to sex, marital status, or any other prohibited basis.
(e)
Permanent residency and immigration status.
A creditor may inquire about the permanent residency and immigration status of an applicant or any other person in connection with a credit transaction.
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 45694, Oct. 2, 2017; 88 FR 35527, May 31, 2023]
§ 1002.6
Rules concerning evaluation of applications.
(a)
General rule concerning use of information.
Except as otherwise provided in the Act and this part, a creditor may consider any information obtained, so long as the information is not used to discriminate against an applicant on a prohibited basis. The legislative history of the Act indicates that the Congress intended an “effects test” concept, as outlined in the employment field by the Supreme Court in the cases of
Griggs
v.
Duke Power Co.,
401 U.S. 424 (1971), and
Albemarle Paper Co.
v.
Moody,
422 U.S. 405 (1975), to be applicable to a creditor's determination of creditworthiness.
(b)
Specific rules concerning use of information.
(1) Except as provided in the Act and this part, a creditor shall not take a prohibited basis into account in any system of evaluating the creditworthiness of applicants.
(2)
Age, receipt of public assistance.
(i) Except as permitted in this paragraph, a creditor shall not take into account an applicant's age (provided that the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract) or whether an applicant's income derives from any public assistance program.
(ii) In an empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound, credit scoring system, a creditor may use an applicant's age as a predictive variable, provided that the age of an elderly applicant is not assigned a negative factor or value.
(iii) In a judgmental system of evaluating creditworthiness, a creditor may consider an applicant's age or whether an applicant's income derives from any public assistance program only for the purpose of determining a pertinent element of creditworthiness.
(iv) In any system of evaluating creditworthiness, a creditor may consider the age of an elderly applicant when such age is used to favor the elderly applicant in extending credit.
(3)
Childbearing, childrearing.
In evaluating creditworthiness, a creditor shall not make assumptions or use aggregate statistics relating to the likelihood that any category of persons will bear or rear children or will, for that reason, receive diminished or interrupted income in the future.
(4)
Telephone listing.
A creditor shall not take into account whether there is a telephone listing in the name of an applicant for consumer credit but may take into account whether there is a telephone in the applicant's residence.
(5)
Income.
A creditor shall not discount or exclude from consideration the income of an applicant or the spouse of an applicant because of a prohibited basis or because the income is derived from part-time employment or is an annuity, pension, or other retirement benefit; a creditor may consider the amount and probable continuance of any income in evaluating an applicant's creditworthiness. When an applicant relies on alimony, child support, or separate maintenance payments in applying for credit, the creditor shall consider such payments as income to the extent that they are likely to be consistently made.
(6)
Credit history.
To the extent that a creditor considers credit history in evaluating the creditworthiness of similarly qualified applicants for a similar type and amount of credit, in evaluating an applicant's creditworthiness a creditor shall consider:
(i) The credit history, when available, of accounts designated as accounts that the applicant and the applicant's spouse are permitted to use or for which both are contractually liable;
(ii) On the applicant's request, any information the applicant may present that tends to indicate the credit history being considered by the creditor does not accurately reflect the applicant's creditworthiness; and
(iii) On the applicant's request, the credit history, when available, of any account reported in the name of the applicant's spouse or former spouse that the applicant can demonstrate accurately reflects the applicant's creditworthiness.
(7)
Immigration status.
A creditor may consider the applicant's immigration status or status as a permanent resident of the United States, and any additional information that may be necessary to ascertain the creditor's rights and remedies regarding repayment.
(8)
Marital status.
Except as otherwise permitted or required by law, a creditor shall evaluate married and unmarried applicants by the same standards; and in evaluating joint applicants, a creditor shall not treat applicants differently based on the existence, absence, or likelihood of a marital relationship between the parties.
(9)
Race, color, religion, national origin, sex.
Except as otherwise permitted or required by law, a creditor shall not consider race, color, religion, national origin, or sex (or an applicant's or other person's decision not to provide the information) in any aspect of a credit transaction.
(c)
State property laws.
A creditor's consideration or application of state property laws directly or indirectly affecting creditworthiness does not constitute unlawful discrimination for the purposes of the Act or this part.
§ 1002.7
Rules concerning extensions of credit.
(a)
Individual accounts.
A creditor shall not refuse to grant an individual account to a creditworthy applicant on the basis of sex, marital status, or any other prohibited basis.
(b)
Designation of name.
A creditor shall not refuse to allow an applicant to open or maintain an account in a birth-given first name and a surname that is the applicant's birth-given surname, the spouse's surname, or a combined surname.
(c)
Action concerning existing open-end accounts
—(1)
Limitations.
In the absence of evidence of the applicant's inability or unwillingness to repay, a creditor shall not take any of the following actions regarding an applicant who is contractually liable on an existing open-end account on the basis of the applicant's reaching a certain age or retiring or on the basis of a change in the applicant's name or marital status:
(i) Require a reapplication, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section;
(ii) Change the terms of the account; or
(iii) Terminate the account.
(2)
Requiring reapplication.
A creditor may require a reapplication for an open-end account on the basis of a change in the marital status of an applicant who is contractually liable if the credit granted was based in whole or in part on income of the applicant's spouse and if information available to the creditor indicates that the applicant's income may not support the amount of credit currently available.
(d)
Signature of spouse or other person
—(1)
Rule for qualified applicant.
Except as provided in this paragraph, a creditor shall not require the signature of an applicant's spouse or other person, other than a joint applicant, on any credit instrument if the applicant qualifies under the creditor's standards of creditworthiness for the amount and terms of the credit requested. A creditor shall not deem the submission of a joint financial statement or other evidence of jointly held assets as an application for joint credit.
(2)
Unsecured credit.
If an applicant requests unsecured credit and relies in part upon property that the applicant owns jointly with another person to satisfy the creditor's standards of creditworthiness, the creditor may require the signature of the other person only on the instrument(s) necessary, or reasonably believed by the creditor to be necessary, under the law of the state in which the property is located, to enable the creditor to reach the property
being relied upon in the event of the death or default of the applicant.
(3)
Unsecured credit—community property states.
If a married applicant requests unsecured credit and resides in a community property state, or if the applicant is relying on property located in such a state, a creditor may require the signature of the spouse on any instrument necessary, or reasonably believed by the creditor to be necessary, under applicable state law to make the community property available to satisfy the debt in the event of default if:
(i) Applicable state law denies the applicant power to manage or control sufficient community property to qualify for the credit requested under the creditor's standards of creditworthiness; and
(ii) The applicant does not have sufficient separate property to qualify for the credit requested without regard to community property.
(4)
Secured credit.
If an applicant requests secured credit, a creditor may require the signature of the applicant's spouse or other person on any instrument necessary, or reasonably believed by the creditor to be necessary, under applicable state law to make the property being offered as security available to satisfy the debt in the event of default, for example, an instrument to create a valid lien, pass clear title, waive inchoate rights, or assign earnings.
(5)
Additional parties.
If, under a creditor's standards of creditworthiness, the personal liability of an additional party is necessary to support the credit requested, a creditor may request a cosigner, guarantor, endorser, or similar party. The applicant's spouse may serve as an additional party, but the creditor shall not require that the spouse be the additional party.
(6)
Rights of additional parties.
A creditor shall not impose requirements upon an additional party that the creditor is prohibited from imposing upon an applicant under this section.
(e)
Insurance.
A creditor shall not refuse to extend credit and shall not terminate an account because credit life, health, accident, disability, or other credit-related insurance is not available on the basis of the applicant's age.
§ 1002.8
Special purpose credit programs.
(a)
Standards for programs.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, the Act and this part permit a creditor to extend special purpose credit to applicants who meet eligibility requirements under the following types of credit programs:
(1) Any credit assistance program expressly authorized by Federal or state law for the benefit of an economically disadvantaged class of persons;
(2) Any credit assistance program offered by a not-for-profit organization, as defined under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, for the benefit of its members or for the benefit of an economically disadvantaged class of persons; or
(3) Any special purpose credit program offered by a for-profit organization, or in which such an organization participates to meet special social needs, if:
(i) The program is established and administered pursuant to a written plan that identifies the class of persons that the program is designed to benefit and sets forth the procedures and standards for extending credit pursuant to the program; and
(ii) The program is established and administered to extend credit to a class of persons who, under the organization's customary standards of creditworthiness, probably would not receive such credit or would receive it on less favorable terms than are ordinarily available to other applicants applying to the organization for a similar type and amount of credit.
(b)
Rules in other sections
—(1)
General applicability.
All the provisions of this part apply to each of the special purpose credit programs described in paragraph (a) of this section except as modified by this section.
(2)
Common characteristics.
A program described in paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section qualifies as a special purpose credit program only if it was established and is administered so as not to discriminate against an applicant on any prohibited basis; however, all program participants may be required to
share one or more common characteristics (for example, race, national origin, or sex) so long as the program was not established and is not administered with the purpose of evading the requirements of the Act or this part.
(c)
Special rule concerning requests and use of information.
If participants in a special purpose credit program described in paragraph (a) of this section are required to possess one or more common characteristics (for example, race, national origin, or sex) and if the program otherwise satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, a creditor may request and consider information regarding the common characteristic(s) in determining the applicant's eligibility for the program.
(d)
Special rule in the case of financial need.
If financial need is one of the criteria under a special purpose credit program described in paragraph (a) of this section, the creditor may request and consider, in determining an applicant's eligibility for the program, information regarding the applicant's marital status; alimony, child support, and separate maintenance income; and the spouse's financial resources. In addition, a creditor may obtain the signature of an applicant's spouse or other person on an application or credit instrument relating to a special purpose credit program if the signature is required by Federal or state law.
§ 1002.9
Notifications.
(a)
Notification of action taken, ECOA notice, and statement of specific reasons
—(1)
When notification is required.
A creditor shall notify an applicant of action taken within:
(i) 30 days after receiving a completed application concerning the creditor's approval of, counteroffer to, or adverse action on the application;
(ii) 30 days after taking adverse action on an incomplete application, unless notice is provided in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section;
(iii) 30 days after taking adverse action on an existing account; or
(iv) 90 days after notifying the applicant of a counteroffer if the applicant does not expressly accept or use the credit offered.
(2)
Content of notification when adverse action is taken.
A notification given to an applicant when adverse action is taken shall be in writing and shall contain a statement of the action taken; the name and address of the creditor; a statement of the provisions of section 701(a) of the Act; the name and address of the Federal agency that administers compliance with respect to the creditor; and either:
(i) A statement of specific reasons for the action taken; or
(ii) A disclosure of the applicant's right to a statement of specific reasons within 30 days, if the statement is requested within 60 days of the creditor's notification. The disclosure shall include the name, address, and telephone number of the person or office from which the statement of reasons can be obtained. If the creditor chooses to provide the reasons orally, the creditor shall also disclose the applicant's right to have them confirmed in writing within 30 days of receiving the applicant's written request for confirmation.
(3)
Notification to business credit applicants.
For business credit, a creditor shall comply with the notification requirements of this section in the following manner:
(i) With regard to a business that had gross revenues of $1 million or less in its preceding fiscal year (other than an extension of trade credit, credit incident to a factoring agreement, or other similar types of business credit), a creditor shall comply with paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, except that:
(A) The statement of the action taken may be given orally or in writing, when adverse action is taken;
(B) Disclosure of an applicant's right to a statement of reasons may be given at the time of application, instead of when adverse action is taken, provided the disclosure contains the information required by paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section and the ECOA notice specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section;
(C) For an application made entirely by telephone, a creditor satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section by an oral statement of the action taken and of the applicant's
right to a statement of reasons for adverse action.
(ii) With regard to a business that had gross revenues in excess of $1 million in its preceding fiscal year or an extension of trade credit, credit incident to a factoring agreement, or other similar types of business credit, a creditor shall:
(A) Notify the applicant, within a reasonable time, orally or in writing, of the action taken; and
(B) Provide a written statement of the reasons for adverse action and the ECOA notice specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the applicant makes a written request for the reasons within 60 days of the creditor's notification.
(b)
Form of ECOA notice and statement of specific reasons
—(1)
ECOA notice.
To satisfy the disclosure requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section regarding section 701(a) of the Act, the creditor shall provide a notice that is substantially similar to the following: The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (provided the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal agency that administers compliance with this law concerning this creditor is [name and address as specified by the appropriate agency or agencies listed in appendix A of this part].
(2)
Statement of specific reasons.
The statement of reasons for adverse action required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section must be specific and indicate the principal reason(s) for the adverse action. Statements that the adverse action was based on the creditor's internal standards or policies or that the applicant, joint applicant, or similar party failed to achieve a qualifying score on the creditor's credit scoring system are insufficient.
(c)
Incomplete applications
—(1)
Notice alternatives.
Within 30 days after receiving an application that is incomplete regarding matters that an applicant can complete, the creditor shall notify the applicant either:
(i) Of action taken, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section; or
(ii) Of the incompleteness, in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2)
Notice of incompleteness.
If additional information is needed from an applicant, the creditor shall send a written notice to the applicant specifying the information needed, designating a reasonable period of time for the applicant to provide the information, and informing the applicant that failure to provide the information requested will result in no further consideration being given to the application. The creditor shall have no further obligation under this section if the applicant fails to respond within the designated time period. If the applicant supplies the requested information within the designated time period, the creditor shall take action on the application and notify the applicant in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(3)
Oral request for information.
At its option, a creditor may inform the applicant orally of the need for additional information. If the application remains incomplete the creditor shall send a notice in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Oral notifications by small-volume creditors.
In the case of a creditor that did not receive more than 150 applications during the preceding calendar year, the requirements of this section (including statements of specific reasons) are satisfied by oral notifications.
(e)
Withdrawal of approved application.
When an applicant submits an application and the parties contemplate that the applicant will inquire about its status, if the creditor approves the application and the applicant has not inquired within 30 days after applying, the creditor may treat the application as withdrawn and need not comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(f)
Multiple applicants.
When an application involves more than one applicant, notification need only be given to one of them but must be given to the primary applicant where one is readily apparent.
(g)
Applications submitted through a third party.
When an application is made on behalf of an applicant to more than one creditor and the applicant expressly accepts or uses credit offered by one of the creditors, notification of action taken by any of the other creditors is not required. If no credit is offered or if the applicant does not expressly accept or use the credit offered, each creditor taking adverse action must comply with this section, directly or through a third party. A notice given by a third party shall disclose the identity of each creditor on whose behalf the notice is given.
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 16537, Mar. 20, 2023]
§ 1002.10
Furnishing of credit information.
(a)
Designation of accounts.
A creditor that furnishes credit information shall designate:
(1) Any new account to reflect the participation of both spouses if the applicant's spouse is permitted to use or is contractually liable on the account (other than as a guarantor, surety, endorser, or similar party); and
(2) Any existing account to reflect such participation, within 90 days after receiving a written request to do so from one of the spouses.
(b)
Routine reports to consumer reporting agency.
If a creditor furnishes credit information to a consumer reporting agency concerning an account designated to reflect the participation of both spouses, the creditor shall furnish the information in a manner that will enable the agency to provide access to the information in the name of each spouse.
(c)
Reporting in response to inquiry.
If a creditor furnishes credit information in response to an inquiry, concerning an account designated to reflect the participation of both spouses, the creditor shall furnish the information in the name of the spouse about whom the information is requested.
§ 1002.11
Relation to state law.
(a)
Inconsistent state laws.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, this part alters, affects, or preempts only those state laws that are inconsistent with the Act and this part and then only to the extent of the inconsistency. A state law is not inconsistent if it is more protective of an applicant.
(b)
Preempted provisions of state law.
(1) A state law is deemed to be inconsistent with the requirements of the Act and this part and less protective of an applicant within the meaning of section 705(f) of the Act to the extent that the law:
(i) Requires or permits a practice or act prohibited by the Act or this part;
(ii) Prohibits the individual extension of consumer credit to both parties to a marriage if each spouse individually and voluntarily applies for such credit;
(iii) Prohibits inquiries or collection of data required to comply with the Act or this part;
(iv) Prohibits asking about or considering age in an empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound, credit scoring system to determine a pertinent element of creditworthiness, or to favor an elderly applicant; or
(v) Prohibits inquiries necessary to establish or administer a special purpose credit program as defined by § 1002.8.
(2) A creditor, state, or other interested party may request that the Bureau determine whether a state law is inconsistent with the requirements of the Act and this part.
(c)
Laws on finance charges, loan ceilings.
If married applicants voluntarily apply for and obtain individual accounts with the same creditor, the accounts shall not be aggregated or otherwise combined for purposes of determining permissible finance charges or loan ceilings under any Federal or state law. Permissible loan ceiling laws shall be construed to permit each spouse to become individually liable up to the amount of the loan ceilings, less the amount for which the applicant is jointly liable.
(d)
State and Federal laws not affected.
This section does not alter or annul any provision of state property laws, laws relating to the disposition of decedents' estates, or Federal or state banking regulations directed only toward insuring the solvency of financial institutions.
(e)
Exemption for state-regulated transactions
—(1)
Applications.
A state may
apply to the Bureau for an exemption from the requirements of the Act and this part for any class of credit transactions within the state. The Bureau will grant such an exemption if the Bureau determines that:
(i) The class of credit transactions is subject to state law requirements substantially similar to those of the Act and this part or that applicants are afforded greater protection under state law; and
(ii) There is adequate provision for state enforcement.
(2)
Liability and enforcement.
(i) No exemption will extend to the civil liability provisions of section 706 of the Act or the administrative enforcement provisions of section 704 of the Act.
(ii) After an exemption has been granted, the requirements of the applicable state law (except for additional requirements not imposed by Federal law) will constitute the requirements of the Act and this part.
§ 1002.12
Record retention.
(a)
Retention of prohibited information.
A creditor may retain in its files information that is prohibited by the Act or this part for use in evaluating applications, without violating the Act or this part, if the information was obtained:
(1) From any source prior to March 23, 1977;
(2) From consumer reporting agencies, an applicant, or others without the specific request of the creditor; or
(3) As required to monitor compliance with the Act and this part or other Federal or state statutes or regulations.
(b)
Preservation of records
— (1)
Applications.
For 25 months (12 months for business credit, except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section or otherwise provided for in subpart B of this part) after the date that a creditor notifies an applicant of action taken on an application or of incompleteness, the creditor shall retain in original form or a copy thereof:
(i) Any application that it receives, any information required to be obtained concerning characteristics of the applicant to monitor compliance with the Act and this part or other similar law, any information obtained pursuant to § 1002.5(a)(4), and any other written or recorded information used in evaluating the application and not returned to the applicant at the applicant's request.
(ii) A copy of the following documents if furnished to the applicant in written form (or, if furnished orally, any notation or memorandum made by the creditor):
(A) The notification of action taken; and
(B) The statement of specific reasons for adverse action; and
(iii) Any written statement submitted by the applicant alleging a violation of the Act or this part.
(2)
Existing accounts.
For 25 months (12 months for business credit, except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section or otherwise provided for in subpart B of this part) after the date that a creditor notifies an applicant of adverse action regarding an existing account, the creditor shall retain as to that account, in original form or a copy thereof:
(i) Any written or recorded information concerning the adverse action; and
(ii) Any written statement submitted by the applicant alleging a violation of the Act or this part.
(3)
Other applications.
For 25 months (12 months for business credit, except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section or otherwise provided for in subpart B of this part) after the date that a creditor receives an application for which the creditor is not required to comply with the notification requirements of § 1002.9, the creditor shall retain all written or recorded information in its possession concerning the applicant, including any notation of action taken.
(4)
Enforcement proceedings and investigations.
A creditor shall retain the information beyond 25 months (12 months for business credit, except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section or otherwise provided for in subpart B) if the creditor has actual notice that it is under investigation or is subject to an enforcement proceeding for an alleged violation of the Act or this part, by the Attorney General of the United States or by an enforcement agency charged with monitoring that creditor's compliance with the Act and this part, or if it has been served with
notice of an action filed pursuant to section 706 of the Act and § 1002.16 of this part. The creditor shall retain the information until final disposition of the matter, unless an earlier time is allowed by order of the agency or court.
(5)
Special rule for certain business credit applications.
With regard to a business that had gross revenues in excess of $1 million in its preceding fiscal year, or an extension of trade credit, credit incident to a factoring agreement, or other similar types of business credit, the creditor shall retain records for at least 60 days, except as otherwise provided for in subpart B, after notifying the applicant of the action taken. If within that time period the applicant requests in writing the reasons for adverse action or that records be retained, the creditor shall retain records for 12 months.
(6)
Self-tests.
For 25 months after a self-test (as defined in § 1002.15) has been completed, the creditor shall retain all written or recorded information about the self-test. A creditor shall retain information beyond 25 months if it has actual notice that it is under investigation or is subject to an enforcement proceeding for an alleged violation, or if it has been served with notice of a civil action. In such cases, the creditor shall retain the information until final disposition of the matter, unless an earlier time is allowed by the appropriate agency or court order.
(7)
Prescreened solicitations.
For 25 months after the date on which an offer of credit is made to potential customers (12 months for business credit, except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section or otherwise provided for in subpart B), the creditor shall retain in original form or a copy thereof:
(i) The text of any prescreened solicitation;
(ii) The list of criteria the creditor used to select potential recipients of the solicitation; and
(iii) Any correspondence related to complaints (formal or informal) about the solicitation.
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 45694, Oct. 2, 2017; 88 FR 35528, May 31, 2023]
§ 1002.13
Information for monitoring purposes.
(a)
Information to be requested.
(1) A creditor that receives an application for credit primarily for the purchase or refinancing of a dwelling occupied or to be occupied by the applicant as a principal residence, where the extension of credit will be secured by the dwelling, shall request as part of the application the following information regarding the applicant(s):
(i) Ethnicity and race using either:
(A) For ethnicity, the aggregate categories Hispanic or Latino and not Hispanic or Latino; and, for race, the aggregate categories American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and White; or
(B) The categories and subcategories for the collection of ethnicity and race set forth in appendix B to 12 CFR part 1003.
(ii) Sex;
(iii) Marital status, using the categories married, unmarried, and separated; and
(iv) Age.
(2)
Dwelling
means a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property. The term includes, but is not limited to, an individual condominium or cooperative unit and a mobile or other manufactured home.
(b)
Obtaining information.
Questions regarding ethnicity, race, sex, marital status, and age may be listed, at the creditor's option, on the application form or on a separate form that refers to the application. The applicant(s) shall be asked but not required to supply the requested information. If the applicant(s) chooses not to provide the information or any part of it, that fact shall be noted on the form. The creditor shall then also note on the form, to the extent possible, the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant(s) on the basis of visual observation or surname. When a creditor collects ethnicity and race information pursuant to § 1002.13(a)(1)(i)(B), the creditor must comply with any restrictions on the collection of an applicant's ethnicity or race on the basis of visual observation or surname set forth in appendix B
to 12 CFR part 1003. If there is more than one co-applicant, a creditor is permitted, but is not required, to collect the information set forth in paragraph (a) of this section from a second or additional co-applicant.
(c)
Disclosure to applicant(s).
The creditor shall inform the applicant(s) that the information regarding ethnicity, race, sex, marital status, and age is being requested by the Federal Government for the purpose of monitoring compliance with Federal statutes that prohibit creditors from discriminating against applicants on those bases. The creditor shall also inform the applicant(s) that if the applicant(s) chooses not to provide the information, the creditor is required to note the ethnicity, race and sex on the basis of visual observation or surname.
(d)
Substitute monitoring program.
A monitoring program required by an agency charged with administrative enforcement under section 704 of the Act may be substituted for the requirements contained in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section.
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 45694, Oct. 2, 2017]
§ 1002.14
Rules on providing appraisals and other valuations.
(a)
Providing appraisals and other valuations
—(1)
In general.
A creditor shall provide an applicant a copy of all appraisals and other written valuations developed in connection with an application for credit that is to be secured by a first lien on a dwelling. A creditor shall provide a copy of each such appraisal or other written valuation promptly upon completion, or three business days prior to consummation of the transaction (for closed-end credit) or account opening (for open-end credit), whichever is earlier. An applicant may waive the timing requirement in this paragraph (a)(1) and agree to receive any copy at or before consummation or account opening, except where otherwise prohibited by law. Any such waiver must be obtained at least three business days prior to consummation or account opening, unless the waiver pertains solely to the applicant's receipt of a copy of an appraisal or other written valuation that contains only clerical changes from a previous version of the appraisal or other written valuation provided to the applicant three or more business days prior to consummation or account opening. If the applicant provides a waiver and the transaction is not consummated or the account is not opened, the creditor must provide these copies no later than 30 days after the creditor determines consummation will not occur or the account will not be opened.
(2)
Disclosure.
For applications subject to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, a creditor shall mail or deliver to an applicant, not later than the third business day after the creditor receives an application for credit that is to be secured by a first lien on a dwelling, a notice in writing of the applicant's right to receive a copy of all written appraisals developed in connection with the application. In the case of an application for credit that is not to be secured by a first lien on a dwelling at the time of application, if the creditor later determines the credit will be secured by a first lien on a dwelling, the creditor shall mail or deliver the same notice in writing not later than the third business day after the creditor determines that the loan is to be secured by a first lien on a dwelling.
(3)
Reimbursement.
A creditor shall not charge an applicant for providing a copy of appraisals and other written valuations as required under this section, but may require applicants to pay a reasonable fee to reimburse the creditor for the cost of the appraisal or other written valuation unless otherwise provided by law.
(4)
Withdrawn, denied, or incomplete applications.
The requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section apply whether credit is extended or denied or if the application is incomplete or withdrawn.
(5)
Copies in electronic form.
The copies required by § 1002.14(a)(1) may be provided to the applicant in electronic form, subject to compliance with the consumer consent and other applicable provisions of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
).
(b)
Definitions.
For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section:
(1)
Consummation.
The term “consummation” means the time that a consumer becomes contractually obligated on a closed-end credit transaction.
(2)
Dwelling.
The term “dwelling” means a residential structure that contains one to four units whether or not that structure is attached to real property. The term includes, but is not limited to, an individual condominium or cooperative unit, and a mobile or other manufactured home.
(3)
Valuation.
The term “valuation” means any estimate of the value of a dwelling developed in connection with an application for credit.
[78 FR 7248, Jan. 31, 2013]
§ 1002.15
Incentives for self-testing and self-correction.
(a)
General rules
—(1)
Voluntary self-testing and correction.
The report or results of a self-test that a creditor voluntarily conducts (or authorizes) are privileged as provided in this section. Data collection required by law or by any governmental authority is not a voluntary self-test.
(2)
Corrective action required.
The privilege in this section applies only if the creditor has taken or is taking appropriate corrective action.
(3)
Other privileges.
The privilege created by this section does not preclude the assertion of any other privilege that may also apply.
(b)
Self-test defined
—(1)
Definition.
A self-test is any program, practice, or study that:
(i) Is designed and used specifically to determine the extent or effectiveness of a creditor's compliance with the Act or this part; and
(ii) Creates data or factual information that is not available and cannot be derived from loan or application files or other records related to credit transactions.
(2)
Types of information privileged.
The privilege under this section applies to the report or results of the self-test, data or factual information created by the self-test, and any analysis, opinions, and conclusions pertaining to the self-test report or results. The privilege covers workpapers or draft documents as well as final documents.
(3)
Types of information not privileged.
The privilege under this section does not apply to:
(i) Information about whether a creditor conducted a self-test, the methodology used or the scope of the self-test, the time period covered by the self-test, or the dates it was conducted; or
(ii) Loan and application files or other business records related to credit transactions, and information derived from such files and records, even if the information has been aggregated, summarized, or reorganized to facilitate analysis.
(c)
Appropriate corrective action
—(1)
General requirement.
For the privilege in this section to apply, appropriate corrective action is required when the self-test shows that it is more likely than not that a violation occurred, even though no violation has been formally adjudicated.
(2)
Determining the scope of appropriate corrective action.
A creditor must take corrective action that is reasonably likely to remedy the cause and effect of a likely violation by:
(i) Identifying the policies or practices that are the likely cause of the violation; and
(ii) Assessing the extent and scope of any violation.
(3)
Types of relief.
Appropriate corrective action may include both prospective and remedial relief, except that to establish a privilege under this section:
(i) A creditor is not required to provide remedial relief to a tester used in a self-test;
(ii) A creditor is only required to provide remedial relief to an applicant identified by the self-test as one whose rights were more likely than not violated; and
(iii) A creditor is not required to provide remedial relief to a particular applicant if the statute of limitations applicable to the violation expired before the creditor obtained the results of the self-test or the applicant is otherwise ineligible for such relief.
(4)
No admission of violation.
Taking corrective action is not an admission that a violation occurred.
(d)
Scope of privilege
—(1)
General rule.
The report or results of a privileged self-test may not be obtained or used:
(i) By a government agency in any examination or investigation relating to compliance with the Act or this part; or
(ii) By a government agency or an applicant (including a prospective applicant who alleges a violation of § 1002.4(b)) in any proceeding or civil action in which a violation of the Act or this part is alleged.
(2)
Loss of privilege.
The report or results of a self-test are not privileged under paragraph (d)(1) of this section if the creditor or a person with lawful access to the report or results:
(i) Voluntarily discloses any part of the report or results, or any other information privileged under this section, to an applicant or government agency or to the public;
(ii) Discloses any part of the report or results, or any other information privileged under this section, as a defense to charges that the creditor has violated the Act or regulation; or
(iii) Fails or is unable to produce written or recorded information about the self-test that is required to be retained under § 1002.12(b)(6) when the information is needed to determine whether the privilege applies. This paragraph does not limit any other penalty or remedy that may be available for a violation of § 1002.12.
(3)
Limited use of privileged information.
Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the self-test report or results and any other information privileged under this section may be obtained and used by an applicant or government agency solely to determine a penalty or remedy after a violation of the Act or this part has been adjudicated or admitted. Disclosures for this limited purpose may be used only for the particular proceeding in which the adjudication or admission was made. Information disclosed under this paragraph (d)(3) remains privileged under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
§ 1002.16
Enforcement, penalties and liabilities.
(a)
Administrative enforcement.
(1) As set forth more fully in section 704 of the Act, administrative enforcement of the Act and this part regarding certain creditors is assigned to the Comptroller of the Currency, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, National Credit Union Administration, Surface Transportation Board, Civil Aeronautics Board, Secretary of Agriculture, Farm Credit Administration, Securities and Exchange Commission, Small Business Administration, Secretary of Transportation, and Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
(2) Except to the extent that administrative enforcement is specifically assigned to some government agency other than the Bureau, and subject to subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, the Federal Trade Commission is authorized to enforce the requirements imposed under the Act and this part.
(b)
Penalties and liabilities.
(1) Sections 702(g) and 706(a) and (b) of the Act provide that any creditor that fails to comply with a requirement imposed by the Act or this part is subject to civil liability for actual and punitive damages in individual or class actions. Pursuant to sections 702(g) and 704(b), (c), and (d) of the Act, violations of the Act or this part also constitute violations of other Federal laws. Liability for punitive damages can apply only to nongovernmental entities and is limited to $10,000 in individual actions and the lesser of $500,000 or 1 percent of the creditor's net worth in class actions. Section 706(c) provides for equitable and declaratory relief and section 706(d) authorizes the awarding of costs and reasonable attorney's fees to an aggrieved applicant in a successful action.
(2) As provided in section 706(f) of the Act, a civil action under the Act or this part may be brought in the appropriate United States district court without regard to the amount in controversy or in any other court of competent jurisdiction within five years after the date of the occurrence of the violation, or within one year after the commencement of an administrative enforcement proceeding or of a civil action brought by the Attorney General of the United States within five years after the alleged violation.
(3) If an agency responsible for administrative enforcement is unable to obtain compliance with the Act or this
part, it may refer the matter to the Attorney General of the United States. If the Bureau, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the National Credit Union Administration has reason to believe that one or more creditors have engaged in a pattern or practice of discouraging or denying applications in violation of the Act or this part, the agency shall refer the matter to the Attorney General. If the agency has reason to believe that one or more creditors violated section 701(a) of the Act, the agency may refer a matter to the Attorney General.
(4) On referral, or whenever the Attorney General has reason to believe that one or more creditors have engaged in a pattern or practice in violation of the Act or this part, the Attorney General may bring a civil action for such relief as may be appropriate, including actual and punitive damages and injunctive relief.
(5) If the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or the National Credit Union Administration has reason to believe (as a result of a consumer complaint, a consumer compliance examination, or some other basis) that a violation of the Act or this part has occurred which is also a violation of the Fair Housing Act, and the matter is not referred to the Attorney General, the agency shall:
(i) Notify the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; and
(ii) Inform the applicant that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development has been notified and that remedies may be available under the Fair Housing Act.
(c)
Failure of compliance.
A creditor's failure to comply with § 1002.6(b)(6), § 1002.9, § 1002.10, § 1002.12 or § 1002.13 is not a violation if it results from an inadvertent error. On discovering an error under §§ 1002.9 and 1002.10, the creditor shall correct it as soon as possible. If a creditor inadvertently obtains the monitoring information regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant in a dwelling-related transaction not covered by § 1002.13, the creditor may retain information and act on the application without violating the regulation.

# Subpart B—Small Business Lending Data Collection

# Source:
88 FR 35528, May 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1002.101
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority and scope.
This subpart to Regulation B is issued by the Bureau pursuant to section 704B of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691c-2). Except as otherwise provided herein, this subpart applies to covered financial institutions, as defined in § 1002.105(b), other than a person excluded from coverage of this part by section 1029 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 2004 (2010).
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart implements section 704B of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which Congress intended:
(1) To facilitate enforcement of fair lending laws; and
(2) To enable communities, governmental entities, and creditors to identify business and community development needs and opportunities of women-owned, minority-owned, and small businesses.
§ 1002.102
Definitions.
In this subpart:
(a)
Affiliate
means, with respect to a financial institution, any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, another company, as set forth in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
). With respect to a business or an applicant,
affiliate
shall have the same meaning as in 13 CFR 121.103.
(b)
Applicant
means any person who requests or who has received an extension of business credit from a financial institution.
(c)
Business
is defined in § 1002.106(a).
(d)
Business credit
shall have the same meaning as in § 1002.2(g).
(e)
Closed-end credit transaction
means an extension of business credit that is not an open-end credit transaction under paragraph (n) of this section.
(f)
Covered application
is defined in § 1002.103.
(g)
Covered credit transaction
is defined in § 1002.104.
(h)
Covered financial institution
is defined in § 1002.105(b).
(i)
Credit
shall have the same meaning as in § 1002.2(j).
(j)
Financial institution
is defined in § 1002.105(a).
(k)
LGBTQI+ individual
includes an individual who identifies as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or intersex.
(l)
LGBTQI+-owned business
means a business for which one or more LGBTQI+ individuals hold more than 50 percent of its ownership or control, and for which more than 50 percent of the net profits or losses accrue to one or more such individuals.
(m)
Minority-owned business
means a business for which one or more American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Hispanic or Latino individuals hold more than 50 percent of its ownership or control, and for which more than 50 percent of the net profits or losses accrue to one or more such individuals.
(n)
Open-end credit transaction
means an open-end credit plan as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(20), but without regard to whether the credit is consumer credit, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(12), is extended by a creditor, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(17), or is extended to a consumer, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(11).
(o)
Principal owner
means an individual who directly owns 25 percent or more of the equity interests of a business.
(p)
Small business
is defined in § 1002.106(b).
(q)
Small business lending application register
or
register
means the data reported, or required to be reported, annually pursuant to § 1002.109.
(r)
State
shall have the same meaning as in § 1002.2(aa).
(s)
Women-owned business
means a business for which more than 50 percent of its ownership or control is held by one or more women, and more than 50 percent of its net profits or losses accrue to one or more women.
§ 1002.103
Covered applications.
(a)
Covered application.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, covered application means an oral or written request for a covered credit transaction that is made in accordance with procedures used by a financial institution for the type of credit requested.
(b)
Circumstances that are not covered applications.
A covered application does not include:
(1) Reevaluation, extension, or renewal requests on an existing business credit account, unless the request seeks additional credit amounts.
(2) Inquiries and prequalification requests.
§ 1002.104
Covered credit transactions and excluded transactions.
(a)
Covered credit transaction
means an extension of business credit that is not an excluded transaction under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Excluded transactions.
The requirements of this subpart do not apply to:
(1)
Trade credit.
A financing arrangement wherein a business acquires goods or services from another business without making immediate payment in full to the business providing the goods or services.
(2)
Home Mortgage
Disclosure
Act (HMDA)-reportable transactions.
A covered loan, or application therefor, as defined by Regulation C, 12 CFR 1003.2(e).
(3)
Insurance premium financing.
A financing arrangement wherein a business agrees to pay to a financial institution, in installments, the principal amount advanced by the financial institution to an insurer or insurance producer in payment of premium on the business's insurance contract or contracts, plus charges, and, as security for repayment, the business assigns to the financial institution certain rights, obligations, and/or considerations (such as the unearned premiums, accrued dividends, or loss payments) in its insurance contract or contracts. Insurance premium financing does not include the financing of insurance policy premiums obtained in connection with the financing of goods and services.
(4)
Public utilities credit.
Public utilities credit as defined in § 1002.3(a)(1).
(5)
Securities credit.
Securities credit as defined in § 1002.3(b)(1).
(6)
Incidental credit.
Incidental credit as defined in § 1002.3(c)(1), but without regard to whether the credit is consumer credit, as defined in § 1002.2(h).
§ 1002.105
Covered financial institutions and exempt institutions.
(a)
Financial institution
means any partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity that engages in any financial activity.
(b)
Covered financial institution
means a financial institution that originated at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of the two preceding calendar years.
§ 1002.106
Business and small business.
(a)
Business
has the same meaning as the term “business concern or concern” in 13 CFR 121.105.
(b)
Small business definition
—(1)
Small business
has the same meaning as the term “small business concern” in 15 U.S.C. 632(a), as implemented in 13 CFR 121.101 through 121.107. Notwithstanding the size standards set forth in 13 CFR 121.201, for purposes of this subpart, a business is a small business if its gross annual revenue, as defined in § 1002.107(a)(14), for its preceding fiscal year is $5 million or less.
(2)
Inflation adjustment.
Every 5 years after January 1, 2025, the gross annual revenue threshold set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall adjust based on changes to the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (U.S. city average series for all items, not seasonally adjusted), as published by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Any adjustment that takes effect under this paragraph shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $500,000. If an adjustment is to take effect, it will do so on January 1 of the following calendar year.
§ 1002.107
Compilation of reportable data.
(a)
Data format and itemization.
A covered financial institution shall compile and maintain data regarding covered applications from small businesses. The data shall be compiled in the manner prescribed herein and the Filing Instructions Guide for this subpart for the appropriate year. The data compiled shall include the items described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (20) of this section.
(1)
Unique identifier.
An alphanumeric identifier, starting with the legal entity identifier of the financial institution, unique within the financial institution to the specific covered application, and which can be used to identify and retrieve the specific file or files corresponding to the application for or extension of credit.
(2)
Application date.
The date the covered application was received or the date shown on a paper or electronic application form.
(3)
Application method.
The means by which the applicant submitted the covered application directly or indirectly to the financial institution.
(4)
Application recipient.
Whether the applicant submitted the covered application directly to the financial institution or its affiliate, or whether the applicant submitted the covered application indirectly to the financial institution via a third party.
(5)
Credit type.
The following information regarding the type of credit applied for or originated:
(i)
Credit product.
The credit product.
(ii)
Guarantees.
The type or types of guarantees that were obtained for an extension of credit, or that would have been obtained if the covered credit transaction were originated.
(iii)
Loan term.
The length of the loan term, in months, if applicable.
(6)
Credit purpose.
The purpose or purposes of the credit applied for or originated.
(7)
Amount applied for.
The initial amount of credit or the initial credit limit requested by the applicant.
(8)
Amount approved or originated.
(i) For an application for a closed-end credit transaction that is approved but not accepted, the amount approved by the financial institution; or
(ii) For a closed-end credit transaction that is originated, the amount of credit originated; or
(iii) For an application for an open-end credit transaction that is originated or approved but not accepted, the amount of the credit limit approved.
(9)
Action taken.
The action taken by the financial institution on the covered application, reported as originated, approved but not accepted, denied, withdrawn by the applicant, or incomplete.
(10)
Action taken date.
The date of the action taken by the financial institution.
(11)
Denial reasons.
For denied applications, the principal reason or reasons the financial institution denied the covered application.
(12)
Pricing information.
The following information regarding the pricing of a covered credit transaction that is originated or approved but not accepted, as applicable:
(i)
Interest rate.
(A) If the interest rate is fixed, the interest rate that is or would be applicable to the covered credit transaction; or
(B) If the interest rate is adjustable, the margin, index value, initial rate period expressed in months (if applicable), and index name that is or would be applicable to the covered credit transaction;
(ii)
Total origination charges.
The total amount of all charges payable directly or indirectly by the applicant and imposed directly or indirectly by the financial institution at or before origination as an incident to or a condition of the extension of credit, expressed in dollars;
(iii)
Broker fees.
The total amount of all charges included in paragraph (a)(12)(ii) of this section that are fees paid by the applicant directly to a broker or to the financial institution for delivery to a broker, expressed in dollars;
(iv)
Initial annual charges.
The total amount of all non-interest charges that are scheduled to be imposed over the first annual period of the covered credit transaction, expressed in dollars;
(v)
Additional cost for merchant cash advances or other sales-based financing.
For a merchant cash advance or other sales-based financing transaction, the difference between the amount advanced and the amount to be repaid, expressed in dollars; and
(vi)
Prepayment penalties.
(A) Notwithstanding whether such a provision was in fact included, whether the financial institution could have included a charge to be imposed for paying all or part of the transaction's principal before the date on which the principal is due under the policies and procedures applicable to the covered credit transaction; and
(B) Notwithstanding the response to paragraph (a)(12)(vi)(A) of this section, whether the terms of the covered credit transaction do in fact include a charge imposed for paying all or part of the transaction's principal before the date on which the principal is due.
(13)
Census tract.
The census tract in which is located:
(i) The address or location where the proceeds of the credit applied for or originated will be or would have been principally applied; or
(ii) If the information in paragraph (a)(13)(i) of this section is unknown, the address or location of the main office or headquarters of the applicant; or
(iii) If the information in both paragraphs (a)(13)(i) and (ii) of this section is unknown, another address or location associated with the applicant.
(iv) The financial institution shall also indicate which one of the three types of addresses or locations listed in paragraphs (a)(13)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section the census tract is based on.
(14)
Gross annual revenue.
The applicant's gross annual revenue for its preceding fiscal year.
(15)
NAICS code.
A 3-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for the applicant.
(16)
Number of workers.
The number of non-owners working for the applicant.
(17)
Time in business.
The time the applicant has been in business.
(18)
Minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses.
Whether the applicant is a minority-owned, women-owned, and/or LGBTQI+-owned business. When requesting minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses from an applicant, the financial institution shall inform the applicant that the financial institution cannot discriminate on the basis of minority-owned, women-owned, or LGBTQI+-
owned business statuses, or on whether the applicant provides this information.
(19)
Ethnicity, race, and sex of principal owners.
The ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners. When requesting ethnicity, race, and sex information from an applicant, the financial institution shall inform the applicant that the financial institution cannot discriminate on the basis of a principal owner's ethnicity, race, or sex, or on whether the applicant provides this information.
(20)
Number of principal owners.
The number of the applicant's principal owners.
(b)
Reliance on and verification of applicant-provided data.
Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, the financial institution may rely on information from the applicant, or appropriate third-party sources, when compiling data. If the financial institution verifies applicant-provided data, however, it shall report the verified data.
(c)
Time and manner of collection
—(1)
In general.
A covered financial institution shall not discourage an applicant from responding to requests for applicant-provided data under paragraph (a) of this section and shall otherwise maintain procedures to collect such data at a time and in a manner that are reasonably designed to obtain a response.
(2)
Applicant-provided data collected directly from the applicant.
For data collected directly from the applicant, procedures that are reasonably designed to obtain a response shall include provisions for the following:
(i) The initial request for applicant-provided data occurs prior to notifying an applicant of final action taken on a covered application;
(ii) The request for applicant-provided data is prominently displayed or presented;
(iii) The collection does not have the effect of discouraging an applicant from responding to a request for applicant-provided data; and
(iv) Applicants can easily respond to a request for applicant-provided data.
(3)
Procedures to monitor compliance.
A covered financial institution shall maintain procedures to identify and respond to indicia of potential discouragement, including low response rates for applicant-provided data.
(4)
Low response rates.
A low response rate for applicant-provided data may indicate discouragement or other failure by a covered financial institution to maintain procedures to collect applicant-provided data that are reasonably designed to obtain a response.
(d)
Previously collected data.
A covered financial institution is permitted, but not required, to reuse previously collected data to satisfy paragraphs (a)(13) through (20) of this section if:
(1) To satisfy paragraphs (a)(13) and (a)(15) through (20) of this section, the data were collected within the 36 months preceding the current covered application, or to satisfy paragraph (a)(14) of this section, the data were collected within the same calendar year as the current covered application; and
(2) The financial institution has no reason to believe the data are inaccurate.
§ 1002.108
Firewall.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(1)
Involved in making any determination concerning a covered application from a small business
means participating in a decision regarding the evaluation of a covered application from a small business or the creditworthiness of a small business applicant for a covered credit transaction.
(2)
Should have access
means that an employee or officer may need to collect, see, consider, refer to, or otherwise use the information to perform that employee's or officer's assigned job duties.
(b)
Prohibition on access to certain information.
Unless the exception under paragraph (c) of this section applies, an employee or officer of a covered financial institution or a covered financial institution's affiliate shall not have access to an applicant's responses to inquiries that the financial institution makes pursuant to this subpart regarding whether the applicant is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, or an LGBTQI+-owned business under § 1002.107(a)(18), and regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of the
applicant's principal owners under § 1002.107(a)(19), if that employee or officer is involved in making any determination concerning that applicant's covered application.
(c)
Exception to the prohibition on access to certain information.
The prohibition in paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to an employee or officer if the financial institution determines that it is not feasible to limit that employee's or officer's access to an applicant's responses to the financial institution's inquiries under § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19) and the financial institution provides the notice required under paragraph (d) of this section to the applicant. It is not feasible to limit access as required pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section if the financial institution determines that an employee or officer involved in making any determination concerning a covered application from a small business should have access to one or more applicants' responses to the financial institution's inquiries under § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19).
(d)
Notice.
In order to satisfy the exception set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, a financial institution shall provide a notice to each applicant whose responses will be accessed, informing the applicant that one or more employees or officers involved in making determinations concerning the covered application may have access to the applicant's responses to the financial institution's inquiries regarding whether the applicant is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, or an LGBTQI+-owned business, and regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners. The financial institution shall provide the notice required by this paragraph (d) when making the inquiries required under § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) and together with the notices required pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19).
§ 1002.109
Reporting of data to the Bureau.
(a)
Reporting to the Bureau
—(1)
Annual reporting.
(i) On or before June 1 following the calendar year for which data are compiled and maintained as required by § 1002.107, a covered financial institution shall submit its small business lending application register in the format prescribed by the Bureau.
(ii) An authorized representative of the covered financial institution with knowledge of the data shall certify to the accuracy and completeness of the data reported pursuant to this paragraph (a).
(iii) When the last day for submission of data prescribed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section falls on a Saturday or Sunday, a submission shall be considered timely if it is submitted on the next succeeding Monday.
(2)
Reporting by subsidiaries.
A covered financial institution that is a subsidiary of another covered financial institution shall complete a separate small business lending application register. The subsidiary shall submit its small business lending application register, directly or through its parent, to the Bureau.
(3)
Reporting obligations where multiple financial institutions are involved in a covered credit transaction.
Where it is necessary for more than one financial institution to make a credit decision in order to approve a single covered credit transaction, only the last covered financial institution with authority to set the material terms of the covered credit transaction is required to report the application. Financial institutions report the actions of their agents.
(b)
Financial institution identifying information.
A financial institution shall provide each of the following with its submission:
(1) Its name.
(2) Its headquarters address.
(3) The name and business contact information of a person that the Bureau or other regulators may contact about the financial institution's submission.
(4) Its Federal prudential regulator, if applicable.
(5) Its Federal Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).
(6) Its Legal Entity Identifier (LEI).
(7) Its Research, Statistics, Supervision, and Discount identification (RSSD ID) number, if applicable.
(8) Parent entity information, if applicable, including:
(i) The name of the immediate parent entity;
(ii) The LEI of the immediate parent entity, if available;
(iii) The RSSD ID number of the immediate parent entity, if available;
(iv) The name of the top-holding parent entity;
(v) The LEI of the top-holding parent entity, if available; and
(vi) The RSSD ID number of the top-holding parent entity, if available.
(9) The type of financial institution that it is, indicated by selecting the appropriate type or types of institution from the list provided.
(10) Whether the financial institution is voluntarily reporting covered applications from small businesses.
(c)
Procedures for the submission of data to the Bureau.
The Bureau shall make available a Filing Instructions Guide, containing technical instructions for the submission of data to the Bureau pursuant to this section, as well as any related materials, at
https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/small-business-lending/filing-instructions-guide/.
§ 1002.110
Publication of data and other disclosures.
(a)
Publication of small business lending application registers and associated financial institution information.
The Bureau shall make available to the public generally the data reported to it by financial institutions pursuant to § 1002.109, subject to deletions or modifications made by the Bureau if the Bureau determines that the deletion or modification of the data would advance a privacy interest. The Bureau shall make such data available on an annual basis.
(b)
Publication of aggregate data.
The Bureau may compile and aggregate data submitted by financial institutions pursuant to § 1002.109, and make any compilations or aggregations of such data publicly available as the Bureau deems appropriate.
(c)
Statement of financial institution's small business lending data available on the Bureau's website.
A covered financial institution shall make available to the public on its website, or otherwise upon request, a statement that the covered financial institution's small business lending application register, as modified by the Bureau pursuant to § 1002.110(a), is or will be available from the Bureau. A financial institution shall use language provided by the Bureau, or substantially similar language, to satisfy the requirement to provide a statement pursuant to this paragraph (c).
(d)
Availability of statements.
A covered financial institution shall make the notice required by paragraph (c) of this section available to the public on its website when it submits a small business lending application register to the Bureau pursuant to § 1002.109(a)(1), and shall maintain the notice for as long as it has an obligation to retain its small business lending application registers pursuant to § 1002.111(a).
(e)
Further disclosure prohibited
—(1)
Disclosure by a financial institution.
A financial institution shall not disclose or provide to a third party the information it collects pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) except to further compliance with the Act or this part or as required by law.
(2)
Disclosure by a third party.
A third party that obtains information collected pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) for the purpose of furthering compliance with the Act or this part is prohibited from any further disclosure of such information except to further compliance with the Act or this part or as required by law.
§ 1002.111
Recordkeeping.
(a)
Record retention.
A covered financial institution shall retain evidence of compliance with this subpart, which includes a copy of its small business lending application register, for at least three years after the register is required to be submitted to the Bureau pursuant to § 1002.109.
(b)
Certain information kept separate from the rest of the application.
A financial institution shall maintain, separately from the rest of the application and accompanying information, an applicant's responses to the financial institution's inquiries pursuant to this subpart regarding whether an applicant for a covered credit transaction is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, and/or an LGBTQI+-owned business under § 1002.107(a)(18), and regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners under § 1002.107(a)(19).
(c)
Limitation on personally identifiable information in certain records retained under this section.
In reporting a small business lending application register pursuant to § 1002.109, maintaining the register pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and maintaining a separate record of information pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, a financial institution shall not include any name, specific address, telephone number, email address, or any other personally identifiable information concerning any individual who is, or is connected with, an applicant, other than as required pursuant to § 1002.107 or paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1002.112
Enforcement.
(a)
Administrative enforcement and civil liability.
A violation of section 704B of the Act or this subpart is subject to administrative sanctions and civil liability as provided in sections 704 (15 U.S.C. 1691c) and 706 (15 U.S.C. 1691e) of the Act, where applicable.
(b)
Bona fide errors.
A bona fide error in compiling, maintaining, or reporting data with respect to a covered application is one that was unintentional and occurred despite the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid such an error. A bona fide error is not a violation of the Act or this subpart. A financial institution is presumed to maintain procedures reasonably adapted to avoid such errors with respect to a given data field if the number of errors found in a random sample of the financial institution's submission for the data field does not equal or exceed a threshold specified by the Bureau for this purpose in appendix F to this part. However, an error is not a bona fide error if either there is a reasonable basis to believe the error was intentional or there is evidence that the financial institution does not or has not maintained procedures reasonably adapted to avoid such errors.
(c)
Safe harbors
—(1)
Incorrect entry for application date.
A financial institution does not violate the Act or this subpart if it reports on its small business lending application register an application date that is within three business days of the actual application date pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(2).
(2)
Incorrect entry for census tract.
An incorrect entry for census tract is not a violation of the Act or this subpart if the financial institution obtained the census tract by correctly using a geocoding tool provided by the FFIEC or the Bureau.
(3)
Incorrect entry for NAICS code.
An incorrect entry for a 3-digit NAICS code is not a violation of the Act or this subpart, provided that the financial institution obtained the 3-digit NAICS code by:
(i) Relying on an applicant's representations or on an appropriate third-party source, in accordance with § 1002.107(b), regarding the NAICS code; or
(ii) Identifying the NAICS code itself, provided that the financial institution maintains procedures reasonably adapted to correctly identify a 3-digit NAICS code.
(4)
Incorrect determination of small business status, covered credit transaction, or covered application.
A financial institution that initially collects data regarding whether an applicant for a covered credit transaction is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, or an LGBTQI+-owned business, and the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) but later concludes that it should not have collected such data does not violate the Act or this regulation if the financial institution, at the time it collected this data, had a reasonable basis for believing that the application was a covered application for a covered credit transaction from a small business pursuant to §§ 1002.103, 1002.104, and 1002.106, respectively. A financial institution seeking to avail itself of this safe harbor shall comply with the requirements of this subpart as otherwise required pursuant to §§ 1002.107, 1002.108, and 1002.111 with respect to the collected data.
§ 1002.113
Severability.
If any provision of this subpart, or any application of a provision, is stayed or determined to be invalid, the remaining provisions or applications are severable and shall continue in effect.
§ 1002.114
Effective date, compliance date, and special transitional rules.
(a)
Effective date.
The effective date for this subpart is August 29, 2023.
(b)
Compliance date.
The dates by which covered financial institutions are initially required to comply with the requirements of this subpart are as follows:
(1) A covered financial institution that originated at least 2,500 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of calendar years 2022 and 2023 shall comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning July 18, 2025.
(2) A covered financial institution that is not subject to paragraph (b)(1) of this section and that originated at least 500 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of calendar years 2022 and 2023 shall comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning January 16, 2026.
(3) A covered financial institution that is not subject to paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section and that originated at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of calendar years 2022 and 2023 shall comply with the requirements of this subpart beginning October 18, 2026.
(4) A financial institution that did not originate at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of calendar years 2022 and 2023 but subsequently originates at least 100 such transactions in two consecutive calendar years shall comply with the requirements of this subpart in accordance with § 1002.105(b), but in any case no earlier than October 18, 2026.
(c)
Special transitional rules
—(1)
Collection of certain information prior to a financial institution's compliance date.
A financial institution as described in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is permitted, but not required, to collect information regarding whether an applicant for a covered credit transaction is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, and/or an LGBTQI+-owned business under § 1002.107(a)(18), and the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners under § 1002.107(a)(19) beginning 12 months prior to its applicable compliance date as set forth in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. A financial institution collecting such information pursuant to this paragraph (c)(1) must do so in accordance with the requirements set out in §§ 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), 1002.108, and 1002.111(b) and (c).
(2)
Determining which compliance date applies to a financial institution that does not collect information sufficient to determine small business status.
A financial institution that is unable to determine the number of covered credit transactions it originated for small businesses in each of calendar years 2022 and 2023 for purposes of determining its compliance date pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, because for some or all of this period it does not have readily accessible the information needed to determine whether its covered credit transactions were originated for small businesses as defined in § 1002.106(b), is permitted to use any reasonable method to estimate its originations to small businesses for either or both of the calendar years 2022 and 2023.
(3)
Alternative time period for determining compliance dates.
A financial institution is permitted to use its originations of covered credit transactions in each of calendar years 2023 and 2024 in lieu of calendar years 2022 and 2023 as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c)(2) of this section.
[88 FR 35528, May 31, 2023, as amended at 89 FR 55029, July 3, 2024; 89 FR 76713, Sept. 19, 2024]
Pt. 1002, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1002—Federal Agencies To Be Listed in Adverse Action Notices
The following list indicates the Federal agency or agencies that should be listed in notices provided by creditors pursuant to § 1002.9(b)(1). Any questions concerning a particular creditor may be directed to such agencies. This list is not intended to describe agencies' enforcement authority for ECOA and Regulation B. Terms that are not defined in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(s)) shall have the meaning given to them in the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101).
1.
Banks, savings associations, and credit unions with total assets of over $10 billion and their affiliates:
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, 1700 G Street NW, Washington, DC 20552. Such affiliates that are not banks, savings associations, or credit unions also should list, in addition to the Bureau: Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Response
Center, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580.
2. To the extent not included in item 1 above:
a.
National Banks, Federal savings associations, and Federal branches and Federal agencies of foreign banks:
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Customer Assistance Group, P.O. Box 53570, Houston, TX 77052.
b.
State member banks, branches and agencies of foreign banks (other than Federal branches, Federal agencies, and insured State branches of foreign banks), commercial lending companies owned or controlled by foreign banks, and organizations operating under section 25 or 25A of the Federal Reserve Act:
Federal Reserve Consumer Help Center, P.O. Box 1200, Minneapolis, MN 55480.
c.
Nonmember Insured Banks, Insured State Branches of Foreign Banks, and Insured State Savings Associations:
Division of Depositor and Consumer Protection, National Center for Consumer and Depositor Assistance, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 1100 Walnut Street, Box #11, Kansas City, MO 64106.
d.
Federal Credit Unions:
National Credit Union Administration, Office of Consumer Financial Protection (OCFP), 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314.
3.
Air Carriers:
Assistant General Counsel for Office of Aviation Consumer Protection, Department of Transportation, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20590.
4.
Creditors Subject to Surface Transportation Board:
Office of Public Assistance, Governmental Affairs, and Compliance, Surface Transportation Board, 395 E Street SW, Washington, DC 20423.
5.
Creditors Subject to Packers and Stockyards Act:
Nearest Packers and Stockyards Division Regional Office.
6.
Small Business Investment Companies:
Associate Administrator, Office of Capital Access, United States Small Business Association, 409 Third Street SW, Suite 8200, Washington, DC 20416.
7.
Brokers and Dealers:
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549.
8.
Federal Land Banks, Federal Land Bank Associations, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, and Production Credit Associations:
Farm Credit Administration, 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, VA 22102-5090.
9.
Retailers, Finance Companies, and All Other Creditors Not Listed Above:
Federal Trade Commission, Consumer Response Center, 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20580.
[88 FR 58065, Aug. 25, 2023]
Pt. 1002, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1002—Model Application Forms
1. This appendix contains four model credit application forms, each designated for use in a particular type of consumer credit transaction as indicated by the bracketed caption on each form. The first sample form is intended for use in open-end, unsecured transactions; the second for closed-end, secured transactions; the third for closed-end transactions, whether unsecured or secured; and the fourth in transactions involving community property or occurring in community property States. This appendix also contains a data collection model form for collecting information concerning an applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex that complies with the requirements of § 1002.13(a)(1)(i)(A) and (ii). Appendix B to 12 CFR part 1003 provides a data collection model form for collecting information concerning an applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex that complies with the requirements of § 1002.13(a)(1)(i)(B) and (ii). All forms contained in this appendix are models; their use by creditors is optional.
2. The use or modification of these forms is governed by the following instructions. A creditor may change the forms: by asking for additional information not prohibited by § 1002.5; by deleting any information request; or by rearranging the format without modifying the substance of the inquiries. In any of these three instances, however, the appropriate notices regarding the optional nature of courtesy titles, the option to disclose alimony, child support, or separate maintenance, and the limitation concerning marital status inquiries must be included in the appropriate places if the items to which they relate appear on the creditor's form.
3. If a creditor uses an appropriate appendix B model form, or modifies a form in accordance with the above instructions, that creditor shall be deemed to be acting in compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of § 1002.5 of this part.
ER21DE11.046
ER21DE11.047
ER21DE11.048
ER21DE11.049
ER21DE11.050
ER21DE11.051
ER21DE11.052
ER21DE11.053
ER02OC17.000
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 82 FR 45694, 45695, Oct. 2, 2017]
Pt. 1002, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1002—Sample Notification Forms
1. This Appendix contains ten sample notification forms. Forms C-1 through C-4 are intended for use in notifying an applicant that adverse action has been taken on an application or account under §§ 1002.9(a)(1) and (2)(i) of this part. Form C-5 is a notice of disclosure of the right to request specific reasons for adverse action under §§ 1002.9(a)(1) and (2)(ii). Form C-6 is designed for use in notifying an applicant, under § 1002.9(c)(2), that an application is incomplete. Forms C-7 and C-8 are intended for use in connection with applications for business credit under § 1002.9(a)(3). Form C-9 is designed for use in notifying an applicant of the right to receive a copy of appraisals under § 1002.14. Form C-10 is designed for use in notifying an applicant for nonmortgage credit that the creditor is requesting applicant characteristic information.
2. Form C-1 contains the Fair Credit Reporting Act disclosure as required by sections 615(a) and (b) of that act. Forms C-2 through C-5 contain only the section 615(a) disclosure (that a creditor obtained information from a consumer reporting agency that was considered in the credit decision). A creditor must provide the section 615(a) disclosure when adverse action is taken against a consumer based on information from a consumer reporting agency. A creditor must provide the section 615(b) disclosure when adverse action is taken based on information from an outside source other than a consumer reporting agency. In addition, a creditor must provide the section 615(b) disclosure if the creditor obtained information from an affiliate other than information in a consumer report or other than information concerning the affiliate's own transactions or experiences with the consumer. Creditors may comply with the disclosure requirements for adverse action based on information in a consumer report obtained from an affiliate by providing either the section 615(a) or section 615(b) disclosure. Optional language in Forms C-1 through C-5 may be used to direct the consumer to the entity that provided the credit score for any questions about the credit score, along with the entity's contact information. Creditors may use or not use this additional language without losing the safe harbor, since the language is optional.
3. The sample forms are illustrative and may not be appropriate for all creditors. They were designed to include some of the factors that creditors most commonly consider. If a creditor chooses to use the checklist of reasons provided in one of the sample
forms in this appendix and if reasons commonly used by the creditor are not provided on the form, the creditor should modify the checklist by substituting or adding other reasons. For example, if “inadequate down payment” or “no deposit relationship with us” are common reasons for taking adverse action on an application, the creditor ought to add or substitute such reasons for those presently contained on the sample forms.
4. If the reasons listed on the forms are not the factors actually used, a creditor will not satisfy the notice requirement by simply checking the closest identifiable factor listed. For example, some creditors consider only references from banks or other depository institutions and disregard finance company references altogether; their statement of reasons should disclose “insufficient bank references,” not “insufficient credit references.” Similarly, a creditor that considers bank references and other credit references as distinct factors should treat the two factors separately and disclose them as appropriate. The creditor should either add such other factors to the form or check “other” and include the appropriate explanation. The creditor need not, however, describe how or why a factor adversely affected the application. For example, the notice may say “length of residence” rather than “too short a period of residence.”
5. A creditor may design its own notification forms or use all or a portion of the forms contained in this Appendix. Proper use of Forms C-1 through C-4 will satisfy the requirement of § 1002.9(a)(2)(i). Proper use of Forms C-5 and C-6 constitutes full compliance with §§ 1002.9(a)(2)(ii) and 1002.9(c)(2), respectively. Proper use of Forms C-7 and C-8 will satisfy the requirements of §§ 1002.9(a)(2)(i) and (ii), respectively, for applications for business credit. Proper use of Form C-9 will satisfy the requirements of § 1002.14 of this part. Proper use of Form C-10 will satisfy the requirements of § 1002.5(b)(1).

# Form C-1—Sample Notice of Action Taken and Statement of Reasons
Statement of Credit Denial, Termination or Change
Date:
Applicant's Name:
Applicant's Address:
Description of Account, Transaction, or Requested Credit:
Description of Action Taken:

# Part I—Principal Reason(s) for Credit Denial, Termination, or Other Action Taken Concerning Credit
This section must be completed in all instances.
____Credit application incomplete
____Insufficient number of credit references provided
____Unacceptable type of credit references provided
____Unable to verify credit references
____Temporary or irregular employment
____Unable to verify employment
____Length of employment
____Income insufficient for amount of credit requested
____Excessive obligations in relation to income
____Unable to verify income
____Length of residence
____Temporary residence
____Unable to verify residence
____No credit file
____Limited credit experience
____Poor credit performance with us
____Delinquent past or present credit obligations with others
____Collection action or judgment
____Garnishment or attachment
____Foreclosure or repossession
____Bankruptcy
____Number of recent inquiries on credit bureau report
____Value or type of collateral not sufficient
____Other, specify: ______

# Part II—Disclosure of Use of Information Obtained From an Outside Source
This section should be completed if the credit decision was based in whole or in part on information that has been obtained from an outside source.
____Our credit decision was based in whole or in part on information obtained in a report from the consumer reporting agency listed below. You have a right under the Fair Credit Reporting Act to know the information contained in your credit file at the consumer reporting agency. The reporting agency played no part in our decision and is unable to supply specific reasons why we have denied credit to you. You also have a right to a free copy of your report from the reporting agency, if you request it no later than 60 days after you receive this notice. In addition, if you find that any information contained in the report you receive is inaccurate or incomplete, you have the right to dispute the matter with the reporting agency.
Name:
Address:
[Toll-free] Telephone number:
[We also obtained your credit score from the consumer reporting agency and used it in making our credit decision. Your credit score is a number that reflects the information in your consumer report. Your credit score can change, depending on how the information in your consumer report changes.
Your credit score:
Date:
Scores range from a low of ________ to a high of ________.
Key factors that adversely affected your credit score:
[Number of recent inquiries on consumer report, as a key factor]
[If you have any questions regarding your credit score, you should contact [entity that provided the credit score] at:
Address:
[[Toll-free] Telephone number: ________]
____Our credit decision was based in whole or in part on information obtained from an affiliate or from an outside source other than a consumer reporting agency. Under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, you have the right to make a written request, no later than 60 days after you receive this notice, for disclosure of the nature of this information.
If you have any questions regarding this notice, you should contact:
Creditor's name:
Creditor's address:
Creditor's telephone number:
Notice:
The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (provided the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal agency that administers compliance with this law concerning this creditor is (name and address as specified by the appropriate agency listed in appendix A).

# Form C-2—Sample Notice of Action Taken and Statement of Reasons
Date
Dear Applicant: Thank you for your recent application. Your request for [a loan/a credit card/an increase in your credit limit] was carefully considered, and we regret that we are unable to approve your application at this time, for the following reason(s):
Your Income:
____is below our minimum requirement.
____is insufficient to sustain payments on the amount of credit requested.
____could not be verified.
Your Employment:
____is not of sufficient length to qualify.
____could not be verified.
Your Credit History:
____of making payments on time was not satisfactory.
____could not be verified.
Your Application:
____lacks a sufficient number of credit references.
____lacks acceptable types of credit references.
____reveals that current obligations are excessive in relation to income.
Other:
The consumer reporting agency contacted that provided information that influenced our decision in whole or in part was [name, address and [toll-free] telephone number of the reporting agency]. The reporting agency played no part in our decision and is unable to supply specific reasons why we have denied credit to you. You have a right under the Fair Credit Reporting Act to know the information contained in your credit file at the consumer reporting agency. You also have a right to a free copy of your report from the reporting agency, if you request it no later than 60 days after you receive this notice. In addition, if you find that any information contained in the report you receive is inaccurate or incomplete, you have the right to dispute the matter with the reporting agency. Any questions regarding such information should be directed to [consumer reporting agency]. If you have any questions regarding this letter, you should contact us at [creditor's name, address and telephone number].
[We also obtained your credit score from the consumer reporting agency and used it in making our credit decision. Your credit score is a number that reflects the information in your consumer report. Your credit score can change, depending on how the information in your consumer report changes.
Your credit score:
Date:
Scores range from a low of ________ to a high of ________.
Key factors that adversely affected your credit score:
[Number of recent inquiries on consumer report, as a key factor]
[If you have any questions regarding your credit score, you should contact [entity that provided the credit score] at:
Address:
[[Toll-free] Telephone number: ________]
Notice:
The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (provided the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in
good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal agency that administers compliance with this law concerning this creditor is (name and address as specified by the appropriate agency listed in appendix A).

# Form C-3—Sample Notice of Action Taken and Statement of Reasons (Credit Scoring)
Date
Dear Applicant: Thank you for your recent application for __________. We regret that we are unable to approve your request.
[Reasons for Denial of Credit]
Your application was processed by a [credit scoring] system that assigns a numerical value to the various items of information we consider in evaluating an application. These numerical values are based upon the results of analyses of repayment histories of large numbers of customers.
The information you provided in your application did not score a sufficient number of points for approval of the application. The reasons you did not score well compared with other applicants were:
• Insufficient bank references
• Type of occupation
• Insufficient credit experience
• Number of recent inquiries on credit bureau report
[Your Right to Get Your Consumer Report]
In evaluating your application the consumer reporting agency listed below provided us with information that in whole or in part influenced our decision. The consumer reporting agency played no part in our decision and is unable to supply specific reasons why we have denied credit to you. You have a right under the Fair Credit Reporting Act to know the information contained in your credit file at the consumer reporting agency. It can be obtained by contacting: [Name, address, and [toll-free] telephone number of the consumer reporting agency]. You also have a right to a free copy of your report from the reporting agency, if you request it no later than 60 days after you receive this notice. In addition, if you find that any information contained in the report you receive is inaccurate or incomplete, you have the right to dispute the matter with the reporting agency.
[Information about Your Credit Score]
[Information about Your Credit Score]
We also obtained your credit score from the consumer reporting agency and used it in making our credit decision. Your credit score is a number that reflects the information in your consumer report. Your credit score can change, depending on how the information in your consumer report changes.
Your credit score:
Date:
Scores range from a low of ________ to a high of ________.
Key factors that adversely affected your credit score:
[Number of recent inquiries on consumer report, as a key factor]
[If you have any questions regarding your credit score, you should contact [entity that provided the credit score] at:
Address:
[Toll-free] Telephone number: ________]
If you have any questions regarding this letter, you should contact us at
Creditor's Name:
Address:
Telephone:
Sincerely,
Notice:
The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (with certain limited exceptions); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal agency that administers compliance with this law concerning this creditor is (name and address as specified by the appropriate agency listed in appendix A).

# Form C-4—Sample Notice of Action Taken, Statement of Reasons and Counteroffer
Date
Dear Applicant: Thank you for your application for __________. We are unable to offer you credit on the terms that you requested for the following reason(s):__________
We can, however, offer you credit on the following terms: __________
If this offer is acceptable to you, please notify us within [amount of time] at the following address: __________.
Our credit decision on your application was based in whole or in part on information obtained in a report from [name, address and [toll-free] telephone number of the consumer reporting agency]. You have a right under the Fair Credit Reporting Act to know the information contained in your credit file at the consumer reporting agency. The reporting agency played no part in our decision and is unable to supply specific reasons why we have denied credit to you. You also have a right to a free copy of your report from the reporting agency, if you request it no later than 60 days after you receive this notice. In addition, if you find that any information contained in the report you receive is inaccurate or incomplete, you have the right to
dispute the matter with the reporting agency.
[We also obtained your credit score from the consumer reporting agency and used it in making our credit decision. Your credit score is a number that reflects the information in your consumer report. Your credit score can change, depending on how the information in your consumer report changes.
Your credit score:
Date:
Scores range from a low of ________ to a high of ________.
Key factors that adversely affected your credit score:
[Number of recent inquiries on consumer report, as a key factor]
[If you have any questions regarding your credit score, you should contact [entity that provided the credit score] at:
Address:
[Toll-free] Telephone number:________]
You should know that the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors, such as ourselves, from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of their race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (provided the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract), because they receive income from a public assistance program, or because they may have exercised their rights under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. If you believe there has been discrimination in handling your application you should contact the [name and address of the appropriate Federal enforcement agency listed in appendix A].
Sincerely,

# Form C-5—Sample Disclosure of Right To Request Specific Reasons for Credit Denial
Date
Dear Applicant: Thank you for applying to us for __________.
After carefully reviewing your application, we are sorry to advise you that we cannot [open an account for you/grant a loan to you/increase your credit limit] at this time. If you would like a statement of specific reasons why your application was denied, please contact [our credit service manager] shown below within 60 days of the date of this letter. We will provide you with the statement of reasons within 30 days after receiving your request.
Creditor's name
Address
Telephone number
If we obtained information from a consumer reporting agency as part of our consideration of your application, its name, address, and [toll-free] telephone number is shown below. The reporting agency played no part in our decision and is unable to supply specific reasons why we have denied credit to you. [You have a right under the Fair Credit Reporting Act to know the information contained in your credit file at the consumer reporting agency.] You have a right to a free copy of your report from the reporting agency, if you request it no later than 60 days after you receive this notice. In addition, if you find that any information contained in the report you received is inaccurate or incomplete, you have the right to dispute the matter with the reporting agency. You can find out about the information contained in your file (if one was used) by contacting:
Consumer reporting agency's name
Address
[Toll-free] Telephone number
[We also obtained your credit score from the consumer reporting agency and used it in making our credit decision. Your credit score is a number that reflects the information in your consumer report. Your credit score can change, depending on how the information in your consumer report changes.
Your credit score:
Date:
Scores range from a low of ________ to a high of ________.
Key factors that adversely affected your credit score:
[Number of recent inquiries on consumer report, as a key factor]
[If you have any questions regarding your credit score, you should contact [entity that provided the credit score] at:
Address:
[Toll-free] Telephone number: ________]
Sincerely,
Notice:
The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (provided the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal agency that administers compliance with this law concerning this creditor is (name and address as specified by the appropriate agency listed in appendix A).

# Form C-6—Sample Notice of Incomplete Application and Request for Additional Information
Creditor's name
Address
Telephone number
Date
Dear Applicant: Thank you for your application for credit. The following information is needed to make a decision on your application: __________
We need to receive this information by __________ (date). If we do not receive it by that date, we will regrettably be unable to give further consideration to your credit request.
Sincerely,

# Form C-7—Sample Notice of Action Taken and Statement of Reasons (Business Credit)
Creditor's name
Creditor's address
Date
Dear Applicant: Thank you for applying to us for credit. We have given your request careful consideration, and regret that we are unable to extend credit to you at this time for the following reasons:
(Insert appropriate reason, such as: Value or type of collateral not sufficient; Lack of established earnings record; Slow or past due in trade or loan payments)
Sincerely,
Notice: The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (provided the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal agency that administers compliance with this law concerning this creditor is [name and address as specified by the appropriate agency listed in appendix A].

# Form C-8—Sample Disclosure of Right To Request Specific Reasons for Credit Denial Given at Time of Application (Business Credit)
Creditor's name
Creditor's address
If your application for business credit is denied, you have the right to a written statement of the specific reasons for the denial. To obtain the statement, please contact [name, address and telephone number of the person or office from which the statement of reasons can be obtained] within 60 days from the date you are notified of our decision. We will send you a written statement of reasons for the denial within 30 days of receiving your request for the statement.
Notice: The Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits creditors from discriminating against credit applicants on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (provided the applicant has the capacity to enter into a binding contract); because all or part of the applicant's income derives from any public assistance program; or because the applicant has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The Federal agency that administers compliance with this law concerning this creditor is [name and address as specified by the appropriate agency listed in appendix A].

# Form C-9—Sample Disclosure of Right To Receive a Copy of Appraisals
We may order an appraisal to determine the property's value and charge you for this appraisal. We will promptly give you a copy of any appraisal, even if your loan does not close.
You can pay for an additional appraisal for your own use at your own cost.
[In your letter, give us the following information:]

# Form C-10—Sample Disclosure About Voluntary Data Notation
We are requesting the following information to monitor our compliance with the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which prohibits unlawful discrimination. You are not required to provide this information. We will not take this information (or your decision not to provide this information) into account in connection with your application or credit transaction. The law provides that a creditor may not discriminate based on this information, or based on whether or not you choose to provide it. [If you choose not to provide the information, we will note it by visual observation or surname].
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7248, Jan. 31, 2013]
Pt. 1002, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 1002—Issuance of Official Interpretations
1.
Official Interpretations.
Interpretations of this part issued by officials of the Bureau provide the protection afforded under section 706(e) of the Act. Except in unusual circumstances, such interpretations will not be issued separately but will be incorporated in an official commentary to the regulation, which will be amended periodically.
2.
Requests for Issuance of Official Interpretations.
A request for an official interpretation
should be in writing and addressed to the Assistant Director, Office of Regulations, Division of Research, Monitoring, and Regulations, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, 1700 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20552. The request should contain a complete statement of all relevant facts concerning the issue, including copies of all pertinent documents.
3.
Scope of Interpretations.
No interpretations will be issued approving creditors' forms or statements. This restriction does not apply to forms or statements whose use is required or sanctioned by a government agency.
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 88 FR 16538, Mar. 20, 2023]
Pt. 1002, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 1002—Sample Form for Collecting Certain Applicant-Provided Data Under Subpart B
ER31MY23.211
ER31MY23.212
[88 FR 35534, May 31, 2023]
Pt. 1002, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 1002—Tolerances for Bona Fide Errors in Data Reported Under Subpart B
As set out in § 1002.112(b) and in comment 112(b)-1, a financial institution is presumed
to maintain procedures reasonably adapted to avoid errors with respect to a given data field if the number of errors found in a random sample of a financial institution's data submission for a given data field do not equal or exceed the threshold in column C of the following table (Table 1, Tolerance Thresholds for Bona Fide Errors):
Table 1 to Appendix F—Tolerance Thresholds for Bona Fide Errors
Small business lending application register count
Random
sample
size
986
Threshold
(#)
Threshold
(%)
(A)
(B)
(C)
(D)
100-130
47
3
6.4
131-190
56
3
5.4
191-500
59
3
5.1
501-100,000
79
4
5.1
100,001+
159
4
2.5
The size of the random sample, under column B, shall depend on the size of the financial institution's small business lending application register, as shown in column A of the Threshold Table.
986
For a financial institution with fewer than 30 entries in its small business lending application register, the full sample size is the financial institution's total number of entries. The threshold number for such financial institutions remains three. Accordingly, the threshold percentage will be higher for financial institutions with fewer than 30 entries in their registers
The thresholds in column C of the Threshold Table reflect the number of unintentional errors a financial institution may make within a particular data field (
e.g.,
the credit product data field within the credit type data point or the ethnicity data field for a particular principal owner within the ethnicity, race, and sex of principal owners data point) in a small business lending application register that would be deemed bona fide errors for purposes of § 1002.112(b).
For instance, a financial institution that submitted a small business lending application register containing 105 applications would be subject to a threshold of three errors per data field. If the financial institution had made two errors in reporting loan amount and two errors reporting gross annual income, all of these errors would be covered by the bona fide error provision of § 1002.112(b) and would not constitute a violation of the Act or this part. If the same financial institution had made four errors in reporting loan amount and two errors reporting gross annual income, the bona fide error provision of § 1002.112(b) would not apply to the four loan amount errors but would still apply to the two gross annual income errors.
Even when the number of errors in a particular data field do not equal or exceed the threshold in column C, if either there is a reasonable basis to believe that errors in that field were intentional or there is evidence that the financial institution did not maintain procedures reasonably adapted to avoid such errors, then the errors are not bona fide errors under § 1002.112(b).
For purposes of determining bona fide errors under § 1002.112(b), the term “data field” generally refers to individual fields. Some data fields may allow for more than one response. For example, with respect to information on the ethnicity or race of an applicant's principal owners, a data field may identify more than one race or more than one ethnicity for a given person. If one or more of the ethnicities or races identified in a data field are erroneous, they count as one (and only one) error for that data field.
[88 FR 35534, May 31, 2023]
Pt. 1002, Supp. I

# Supplement I to Part 1002—Official Interpretations
Following is an official interpretation of Regulation B (12 CFR part 1002) issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. References are to sections of the regulation or the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
).

# Introduction
1.
Official status.
Section 706(e) of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act protects a creditor from civil liability for any act done or omitted in good faith in conformity with an interpretation issued by a duly authorized official of the Bureau. This commentary is the means by which the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection issues official interpretations of Regulation B. Good-faith compliance with this commentary affords a creditor protection under section 706(e) of the Act.
2.
Issuance of interpretations.
Under appendix D to the regulation, any person may request an official interpretation. Interpretations will be issued at the discretion of designated officials and incorporated in this
commentary following publication for comment in the
Federal Register.
Except in unusual circumstances, official interpretations will be issued only by means of this commentary.
3.
Comment designations.
The comments are designated with as much specificity as possible according to the particular regulatory provision addressed. Each comment in the commentary is identified by a number and the regulatory section or paragraph that it interprets. For example, comments to § 1002.2(c) are further divided by subparagraph, such as comment 2(c)(1)(ii)-1 and comment 2(c)(2)(ii-1.

# Section 1002.1—Authority, Scope, and Purpose
1(a) Authority and scope.
1.
Scope.
The Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B apply to all credit—commercial as well as personal—without regard to the nature or type of the credit or the creditor, except for an entity excluded from coverage of this part (but not the Act) by section 1029 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5519). If a transaction provides for the deferral of the payment of a debt, it is credit covered by Regulation B even though it may not be a credit transaction covered by Regulation Z (Truth in Lending) (12 CFR part 1026). Further, the definition of creditor is not restricted to the party or person to whom the obligation is initially payable, as is the case under Regulation Z. Moreover, the Act and regulation apply to all methods of credit evaluation, whether performed judgmentally or by use of a credit scoring system.
2.
Foreign applicability.
Regulation B generally does not apply to lending activities that occur outside the United States. The regulation does apply to lending activities that take place within the United States (as well as the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and any territory or possession of the United States), whether or not the applicant is a citizen.
3.
Bureau.
The term
Bureau,
as used in this part, means the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.

# Section 1002.2—Definitions
2(c) Adverse action.
Paragraph 2(c)(1)(i).
1.
Application for credit.
If the applicant applied in accordance with the creditor's procedures, a refusal to refinance or extend the term of a business or other loan is adverse action.
Paragraph 2(c)(1)(ii).
1.
Move from service area.
If a credit card issuer terminates the open-end account of a customer because the customer has moved out of the card issuer's service area, the termination is adverse action unless termination on this ground was explicitly provided for in the credit agreement between the parties. In cases where termination is adverse action, notification is required under § 1002.9.
2.
Termination based on credit limit.
If a creditor terminates credit accounts that have low credit limits (for example, under $400) but keeps open accounts with higher credit limits, the termination is adverse action and notification is required under § 1002.9.
Paragraph 2(c)(2)(ii).
1.
Default—exercise of due-on-sale clause.
If a mortgagor sells or transfers mortgaged property without the consent of the mortgagee, and the mortgagee exercises its contractual right to accelerate the mortgage loan, the mortgagee may treat the mortgagor as being in default. An adverse action notice need not be given to the mortgagor or the transferee. (See comment 2(e)-1 for treatment of a purchaser who requests to assume the loan.)
2.
Current delinquency or default.
The term adverse action does not include a creditor's termination of an account when the accountholder is currently in default or delinquent on that account. Notification in accordance with § 1002.9 of the regulation generally is required, however, if the creditor's action is based on a past delinquency or default on the account.
Paragraph 2(c)(2)(iii).
1.
Point-of-sale transactions.
Denial of credit at point of sale is not adverse action except under those circumstances specified in the regulation. For example, denial at point of sale is not adverse action in the following situations:
i. A credit cardholder presents an expired card or a card that has been reported to the card issuer as lost or stolen.
ii. The amount of a transaction exceeds a cash advance or credit limit.
iii. The circumstances (such as excessive use of a credit card in a short period of time) suggest that fraud is involved.
iv. The authorization facilities are not functioning.
v. Billing statements have been returned to the creditor for lack of a forwarding address.
2.
Application for increase in available credit.
A refusal or failure to authorize an account transaction at the point of sale or loan is not adverse action except when the refusal is a denial of an application, submitted in accordance with the creditor's procedures, for an increase in the amount of credit.
Paragraph 2(c)(2)(v).
1.
Terms of credit versus type of credit offered.
When an applicant applies for credit and the creditor does not offer the credit terms requested by the applicant (for example, the interest rate, length of maturity, collateral, or amount of downpayment), a denial of the application for that reason is adverse action (unless the creditor makes a counteroffer that is accepted by the applicant) and the
applicant is entitled to notification under § 1002.9.
2(e) Applicant.
1.
Request to assume loan.
If a mortgagor sells or transfers the mortgaged property and the buyer makes an application to the creditor to assume the mortgage loan, the mortgagee must treat the buyer as an applicant unless its policy is not to permit assumptions.
2(f) Application.
1.
General.
A creditor has the latitude under the regulation to establish its own application process and to decide the type and amount of information it will require from credit applicants.
2.
Procedures used.
The term “procedures” refers to the actual practices followed by a creditor for making credit decisions as well as its stated application procedures. For example, if a creditor's stated policy is to require all applications to be in writing on the creditor's application form, but the creditor also makes credit decisions based on oral requests, the creditor's procedures are to accept both oral and written applications.
3.
When an inquiry or prequalification request becomes an application.
A creditor is encouraged to provide consumers with information about loan terms. However, if in giving information to the consumer the creditor also evaluates information about the consumer, decides to decline the request, and communicates this to the consumer, the creditor has treated the inquiry or prequalification request as an application and must then comply with the notification requirements under § 1002.9. Whether the inquiry or prequalification request becomes an application depends on how the creditor responds to the consumer, not on what the consumer says or asks. (See comment 9-5 for further discussion of prequalification requests; see comment 2(f)-5 for a discussion of preapproval requests.)
4.
Examples of inquiries that are not applications.
The following examples illustrate situations in which only an inquiry has taken place:
i. A consumer calls to ask about loan terms and an employee explains the creditor's basic loan terms, such as interest rates, loan-to-value ratio, and debt-to-income ratio.
ii. A consumer calls to ask about interest rates for car loans, and, in order to quote the appropriate rate, the loan officer asks for the make and sales price of the car and the amount of the downpayment, then gives the consumer the rate.
iii. A consumer asks about terms for a loan to purchase a home and tells the loan officer her income and intended downpayment, but the loan officer only explains the creditor's loan-to-value ratio policy and other basic lending policies, without telling the consumer whether she qualifies for the loan.
iv. A consumer calls to ask about terms for a loan to purchase vacant land and states his income and the sales price of the property to be financed, and asks whether he qualifies for a loan; the employee responds by describing the general lending policies, explaining that he would need to look at all of the consumer's qualifications before making a decision, and offering to send an application form to the consumer.
5.
Examples of an application.
An application for credit includes the following situations:
i. A person asks a financial institution to “preapprove” her for a loan (for example, to finance a house or a vehicle she plans to buy) and the institution reviews the request under a program in which the institution, after a comprehensive analysis of her creditworthiness, issues a written commitment valid for a designated period of time to extend a loan up to a specified amount. The written commitment may not be subject to conditions other than conditions that require the identification of adequate collateral, conditions that require no material change in the applicant's financial condition or creditworthiness prior to funding the loan, and limited conditions that are not related to the financial condition or creditworthiness of the applicant that the lender ordinarily attaches to a traditional application (such as certification of a clear termite inspection for a home purchase loan, or a maximum mileage requirement for a used car loan). But if the creditor's program does not provide for giving written commitments, requests for preapprovals are treated as prequalification requests for purposes of the regulation.
ii. Under the same facts as above, the financial institution evaluates the person's creditworthiness and determines that she does not qualify for a preapproval.
6.
Completed application—diligence requirement.
The regulation defines a completed application in terms that give a creditor the latitude to establish its own information requirements. Nevertheless, the creditor must act with reasonable diligence to collect information needed to complete the application. For example, the creditor should request information from third parties, such as a credit report, promptly after receiving the application. If additional information is needed from the applicant, such as an address or a telephone number to verify employment, the creditor should contact the applicant promptly. (But see comment 9(a)(1)-3, which discusses the creditor's option to deny an application on the basis of incompleteness.)
2(g) Business credit.
1.
Definition.
The test for deciding whether a transaction qualifies as business credit is one of primary purpose. For example, an open-end credit account used for both personal and business purposes is not business
credit unless the primary purpose of the account is business-related. A creditor may rely on an applicant's statement of the purpose for the credit requested.
2(j) Credit.
1.
General.
Regulation B covers a wider range of credit transactions than Regulation Z (Truth in Lending). Under Regulation B, a transaction is credit if there is a right to defer payment of a debt—regardless of whether the credit is for personal or commercial purposes, the number of installments required for repayment, or whether the transaction is subject to a finance charge.
2(l) Creditor.
1.
Assignees.
The term creditor includes all persons participating in the credit decision. This may include an assignee or a potential purchaser of the obligation who influences the credit decision by indicating whether or not it will purchase the obligation if the transaction is consummated.
2.
Referrals to creditors.
For certain purposes, the term creditor includes persons such as real estate brokers, automobile dealers, home builders, and home-improvement contractors who do not participate in credit decisions but who only accept applications and refer applicants to creditors, or select or offer to select creditors to whom credit requests can be made. These persons must comply with § 1002.4(a), the general rule prohibiting discrimination, and with § 1002.4(b), the general rule against discouraging applications.
2(p) Empirically derived and other credit scoring systems.
1.
Purpose of definition.
The definition under §§ 1002.2(p)(1)(i) through (iv) sets the criteria that a credit system must meet in order to use age as a predictive factor. Credit systems that do not meet these criteria are judgmental systems and may consider age only for the purpose of determining a “pertinent element of creditworthiness.” (Both types of systems may favor an elderly applicant. See § 1002.6(b)(2).)
2.
Periodic revalidation.
The regulation does not specify how often credit scoring systems must be revalidated. The credit scoring system must be revalidated frequently enough to ensure that it continues to meet recognized professional statistical standards for statistical soundness. To ensure that predictive ability is being maintained, the creditor must periodically review the performance of the system. This could be done, for example, by analyzing the loan portfolio to determine the delinquency rate for each score interval, or by analyzing population stability over time to detect deviations of recent applications from the applicant population used to validate the system. If this analysis indicates that the system no longer predicts risk with statistical soundness, the system must be adjusted as necessary to reestablish its predictive ability. A creditor is responsible for ensuring its system is validated and revalidated based on the creditor's own data.
3.
Pooled data scoring systems.
A scoring system or the data from which to develop such a system may be obtained from either a single credit grantor or multiple credit grantors. The resulting system will qualify as an empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound, credit scoring system provided the criteria set forth in paragraph (p)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section are met. A creditor is responsible for ensuring its system is validated and revalidated based on the creditor's own data when it becomes available.
4.
Effects test and disparate treatment.
An empirically derived, demonstrably and statistically sound, credit scoring system may include age as a predictive factor (provided that the age of an elderly applicant is not assigned a negative factor or value). Besides age, no other prohibited basis may be used as a variable. Generally, credit scoring systems treat all applicants objectively and thus avoid problems of disparate treatment. In cases where a credit scoring system is used in conjunction with individual discretion, disparate treatment could conceivably occur in the evaluation process. In addition, neutral factors used in credit scoring systems could nonetheless be subject to challenge under the effects test. (See comment 6(a)-2 for a discussion of the effects test).
2(w) Open-end credit.
1.
Open-end real estate mortgages.
The term “open-end credit” does not include negotiated advances under an open-end real estate mortgage or a letter of credit.
2(z) Prohibited basis.
1.
Persons associated with applicant.
As used in this part, prohibited basis refers not only to characteristics—the race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, or age—of an applicant (or officers of an applicant in the case of a corporation) but also to the characteristics of individuals with whom an applicant is affiliated or with whom the applicant associates. This means, for example, that under the general rule stated in § 1002.4(a), a creditor may not discriminate against an applicant because of that person's personal or business dealings with members of a certain religion, because of the national origin of any persons associated with the extension of credit (such as the tenants in the apartment complex being financed), or because of the race of other residents in the neighborhood where the property offered as collateral is located.
2.
National origin.
A creditor may not refuse to grant credit because an applicant comes from a particular country but may take the applicant's immigration status into
account. A creditor may also take into account any applicable law, regulation, or executive order restricting dealings with citizens (or the government) of a particular country or imposing limitations regarding credit extended for their use.
3.
Public assistance program.
Any Federal, state, or local governmental assistance program that provides a continuing, periodic income supplement, whether premised on entitlement or need, is “public assistance” for purposes of the regulation. The term includes (but is not limited to) Temporary Aid to Needy Families, food stamps, rent and mortgage supplement or assistance programs, social security and supplemental security income, and unemployment compensation. Only physicians, hospitals, and others to whom the benefits are payable need consider Medicare and Medicaid as public assistance.

# Section 1002.3—Limited Exceptions for Certain Classes of Transactions
1.
Scope.
Under this section, procedural requirements of the regulation do not apply to certain types of credit. All classes of transactions remain subject to § 1002.4(a), the general rule barring discrimination on a prohibited basis, and to any other provision not specifically excepted.
3(a) Public-utilities credit.
1.
Definition.
This definition applies only to credit for the purchase of a utility service, such as electricity, gas, or telephone service. Credit provided or offered by a public utility for some other purpose—such as for financing the purchase of a gas dryer, telephone equipment, or other durable goods, or for insulation or other home improvements—is not excepted.
2.
Security deposits.
A utility company is a creditor when it supplies utility service and bills the user after the service has been provided. Thus, any credit term (such as a requirement for a security deposit) is subject to the regulation's bar against discrimination on a prohibited basis.
3.
Telephone companies.
A telephone company's credit transactions qualify for the exceptions provided in § 1002.3(a)(2) only if the company is regulated by a government unit or files the charges for service, delayed payment, or any discount for prompt payment with a government unit.
3(c) Incidental credit.
1.
Examples.
If a service provider (such as a hospital, doctor, lawyer, or merchant) allows the client or customer to defer the payment of a bill, this deferral of debt is credit for purposes of the regulation, even though there is no finance charge and no agreement for payment in installments. Because of the exceptions provided by this section, however, these particular credit extensions are excepted from compliance with certain procedural requirements as specified in § 1002.3(c).
3(d) Government credit.
1.
Credit to governments.
The exception relates to credit extended to (not by) governmental entities. For example, credit extended to a local government is covered by this exception, but credit extended to consumers by a Federal or state housing agency does not qualify for special treatment under this category.

# Section 1002.4—General Rules
Paragraph 4(a).
1.
Scope of rule.
The general rule stated in § 1002.4(a) covers all dealings, without exception, between an applicant and a creditor, whether or not addressed by other provisions of the regulation. Other provisions of the regulation identify specific practices that the Bureau has decided are impermissible because they could result in credit discrimination on a basis prohibited by the Act. The general rule covers, for example, application procedures, criteria used to evaluate creditworthiness, administration of accounts, and treatment of delinquent or slow accounts. Thus, whether or not specifically prohibited elsewhere in the regulation, a credit practice that treats applicants differently on a prohibited basis violates the law because it violates the general rule. Disparate treatment on a prohibited basis is illegal whether or not it results from a conscious intent to discriminate.
2.
Examples.
i. Disparate treatment would exist, for example, in the following situations:
A. A creditor provides information only on “subprime” and similar products to minority applicants who request information about the creditor's mortgage products, but provides information on a wider variety of mortgage products to similarly situated nonminority applicants.
B. A creditor provides more comprehensive information to men than to similarly situated women.
C. A creditor requires a minority applicant to provide greater documentation to obtain a loan than a similarly situated nonminority applicant.
D. A creditor waives or relaxes credit standards for a nonminority applicant but not for a similarly situated minority applicant.
ii. Treating applicants differently on a prohibited basis is unlawful if the creditor lacks a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for its action, or if the asserted reason is found to be a pretext for discrimination.
Paragraph 4(b).
1.
Prospective applicants.
Generally, the regulation's protections apply only to persons who have requested or received an extension of credit. In keeping with the purpose of the Act—to promote the availability of credit on a nondiscriminatory basis—§ 1002.4(b) covers
acts or practices directed at prospective applicants that could discourage a reasonable person, on a prohibited basis, from applying for credit. Practices prohibited by this section include:
i. A statement that the applicant should not bother to apply, after the applicant states that he is retired.
ii. The use of words, symbols, models or other forms of communication in advertising that express, imply, or suggest a discriminatory preference or a policy of exclusion in violation of the Act.
iii. The use of interview scripts that discourage applications on a prohibited basis.
2.
Affirmative advertising.
A creditor may affirmatively solicit or encourage members of traditionally disadvantaged groups to apply for credit, especially groups that might not normally seek credit from that creditor.
Paragraph 4(c).
1.
Requirement for written applications.
Model application forms are provided in appendix B to the regulation, although use of a printed form is not required. A creditor will satisfy the requirement by writing down the information that it normally considers in making a credit decision. The creditor may complete an application on behalf of an applicant and need not require the applicant to sign the application.
2.
Telephone applications.
A creditor that accepts applications by telephone for dwelling-related credit covered by § 1002.13 can meet the requirement for written applications by writing down pertinent information that is provided by the applicant.
3.
Computerized entry.
Information entered directly into and retained by a computerized system qualifies as a written application under this paragraph. (See the commentary to § 1002.13(b),
Applications through electronic media and Applications through video.
)
Paragraph 4(d).
1.
Clear and conspicuous.
This standard requires that disclosures be presented in a reasonably understandable format in a way that does not obscure the required information. No minimum type size is mandated, but the disclosures must be legible, whether typewritten, handwritten, or printed by computer.
2.
Form of disclosures.
Whether the disclosures required to be on or with an application must be in electronic form depends upon the following:
i. If an applicant accesses a credit application electronically (other than as described under ii below), such as online at a home computer, the creditor must provide the disclosures in electronic form (such as with the application form on its Web site) in order to meet the requirement to provide disclosures in a timely manner on or with the application. If the creditor instead mailed paper disclosures to the applicant, this requirement would not be met.
ii. In contrast, if an applicant is physically present in the creditor's office, and accesses a credit application electronically, such as via a terminal or kiosk (or if the applicant uses a terminal or kiosk located on the premises of an affiliate or third party that has arranged with the creditor to provide applications to consumers), the creditor may provide disclosures in either electronic or paper form, provided the creditor complies with the timing, delivery, and retainability requirements of the regulation.

# Section 1002.5—Rules Concerning Requests for Information
5(a) General rules.
Paragraph 5(a)(1).
1.
Requests for information.
This section governs the types of information that a creditor may gather. Section1002.6 governs how information may be used.
5(a)(2) Required Collection of Information
1.
Local laws.
Information that a creditor is allowed to collect pursuant to a “state” statute or regulation includes information required by a local statute, regulation, or ordinance.
2.
Information required by Regulation C.
Regulation C, 12 CFR part 1003, generally requires creditors covered by the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) to collect and report information about the race, ethnicity, and sex of applicants for certain dwelling-secured loans, including some types of loans not covered by § 1002.13.
3.
Collecting information on behalf of creditors.
Persons such as loan brokers and correspondents do not violate the ECOA or Regulation B if they collect information that they are otherwise prohibited from collecting, where the purpose of collecting the information is to provide it to a creditor that is subject to subpart B of this part, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, or another Federal or State statute or regulation requiring data collection.
4.
Information required by subpart B.
Subpart B of this part generally requires creditors that are covered financial institutions as defined in § 1002.105(b) to collect and report information about the ethnicity, race, and sex of the principal owners of applicants for certain small business credit, as well as whether the applicant is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, or an LGBTQI+-owned business, as defined in § 1002.102(m), (s), and (
l
), respectively.
5(a)(4) Other Permissible Collection of Information
1.
Other permissible collection of information.
Information regarding ethnicity, race, and sex that is not required to be collected pursuant to Regulation C, 12 CFR part 1003, or subpart B of this part, may nevertheless be collected under the circumstances set forth in § 1002.5(a)(4) without violating § 1002.5(b). The information collected pursuant to 12
CFR part 1003 must be retained pursuant to the requirements of § 1002.12. The information collected pursuant to subpart B of this part must be retained pursuant to the requirements set forth in § 1002.111.
5(d) Other limitations on information requests.
Paragraph 5(d)(1).
1.
Indirect disclosure of prohibited information.
The fact that certain credit-related information may indirectly disclose marital status does not bar a creditor from seeking such information. For example, the creditor may ask about:
i. The applicant's obligation to pay alimony, child support, or separate maintenance income.
ii. The source of income to be used as the basis for repaying the credit requested, which could disclose that it is the income of a spouse.
iii. Whether any obligation disclosed by the applicant has a co-obligor, which could disclose that the co-obligor is a spouse or former spouse.
iv. The ownership of assets, which could disclose the interest of a spouse.
Paragraph 5(d)(2).
1.
Disclosure about income.
The sample application forms in appendix B to the regulation illustrate how a creditor may inform an applicant of the right not to disclose alimony, child support, or separate maintenance income.
2.
General inquiry about source of income.
Since a general inquiry about the source of income may lead an applicant to disclose alimony, child support, or separate maintenance income, a creditor making such an inquiry on an application form should preface the request with the disclosure required by this paragraph.
3.
Specific inquiry about sources of income.
A creditor need not give the disclosure if the inquiry about income is specific and worded in a way that is unlikely to lead the applicant to disclose the fact that income is derived from alimony, child support, or separate maintenance payments. For example, an application form that asks about specific types of income such as salary, wages, or investment income need not include the disclosure.

# Section 1002.6—Rules Concerning Evaluation of Applications
6(a) General rule concerning use of information.
1.
General.
When evaluating an application for credit, a creditor generally may consider any information obtained. However, a creditor may not consider in its evaluation of creditworthiness any information that it is barred by § 1002.5 from obtaining or from using for any purpose other than to conduct a self-test under § 1002.15.
2.
Effects test.
The effects test is a judicial doctrine that was developed in a series of employment cases decided by the U.S. Supreme Court under title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e
et seq.,
) and the burdens of proof for such employment cases were codified by Congress in the Civil Rights Act of 1991 (42 U.S.C. 2000e-2). Congressional intent that this doctrine apply to the credit area is documented in the Senate Report that accompanied H.R. 6516, No. 94-589, pp. 4-5; and in the House Report that accompanied H.R. 6516, No. 94-210, p.5. The Act and regulation may prohibit a creditor practice that is discriminatory in effect because it has a disproportionately negative impact on a prohibited basis, even though the creditor has no intent to discriminate and the practice appears neutral on its face, unless the creditor practice meets a legitimate business need that cannot reasonably be achieved as well by means that are less disparate in their impact. For example, requiring that applicants have income in excess of a certain amount to qualify for an overdraft line of credit could mean that women and minority applicants will be rejected at a higher rate than men and nonminority applicants. If there is a demonstrable relationship between the income requirement and creditworthiness for the level of credit involved, however, use of the income standard would likely be permissible.
6(b) Specific rules concerning use of information.
Paragraph 6(b)(1).
1.
Prohibited basis
—special purpose credit. In a special purpose credit program, a creditor may consider a prohibited basis to determine whether the applicant possesses a characteristic needed for eligibility. (See § 1002.8.)
Paragraph 6(b)(2).
1.
Favoring the elderly.
Any system of evaluating creditworthiness may favor a credit applicant who is age 62 or older. A credit program that offers more favorable credit terms to applicants age 62 or older is also permissible; a program that offers more favorable credit terms to applicants at an age lower than 62 is permissible only if it meets the special-purpose credit requirements of § 1002.8.
2.
Consideration of age in a credit scoring system.
Age may be taken directly into account in a credit scoring system that is “demonstrably and statistically sound,” as defined in § 1002.2(p), with one limitation: Applicants age 62 years or older must be treated at least as favorably as applicants who are under age 62. If age is scored by assigning points to an applicant's age category, elderly applicants must receive the same or a greater number of points as the most favored class of nonelderly applicants.
i.
Age-split scorecards.
Some credit systems segment the population and use different scorecards based on the age of an applicant. In such a system, one card may cover a narrow age range (for example, applicants in
their twenties or younger) who are evaluated under attributes predictive for that age group. A second card may cover all other applicants, who are evaluated under the attributes predictive for that broader class. When a system uses a card covering a wide age range that encompasses elderly applicants, the credit scoring system is not deemed to score age. Thus, the system does not raise the issue of assigning a negative factor or value to the age of elderly applicants. But if a system segments the population by age into multiple scorecards, and includes elderly applicants in a narrower age range, the credit scoring system does score age. To comply with the Act and regulation in such a case, the creditor must ensure that the system does not assign a negative factor or value to the age of elderly applicants as a class.
3.
Consideration of age in a judgmental system.
In a judgmental system, defined in § 1002.2(t), a creditor may not decide whether to extend credit or set the terms and conditions of credit based on age or information related exclusively to age. Age or age-related information may be considered only in evaluating other “pertinent elements of creditworthiness” that are drawn from the particular facts and circumstances concerning the applicant. For example, a creditor may not reject an application or terminate an account because the applicant is 60 years old. But a creditor that uses a judgmental system may relate the applicant's age to other information about the applicant that the creditor considers in evaluating creditworthiness. As the following examples illustrate, the evaluation must be made in an individualized, case-by-case manner:
i. A creditor may consider the applicant's occupation and length of time to retirement to ascertain whether the applicant's income (including retirement income) will support the extension of credit to its maturity.
ii. A creditor may consider the adequacy of any security offered when the term of the credit extension exceeds the life expectancy of the applicant and the cost of realizing on the collateral could exceed the applicant's equity. An elderly applicant might not qualify for a 5 percent down, 30-year mortgage loan but might qualify with a larger downpayment or a shorter loan maturity.
iii. A creditor may consider the applicant's age to assess the significance of length of employment (a young applicant may have just entered the job market) or length of time at an address (an elderly applicant may recently have retired and moved from a long-term residence).
4.
Consideration of age in a reverse mortgage.
A reverse mortgage is a home-secured loan in which the borrower receives payments from the creditor, and does not become obligated to repay these amounts (other than in the case of default) until the borrower dies, moves permanently from the home, or transfers title to the home, or upon a specified maturity date. Disbursements to the borrower under a reverse mortgage typically are determined by considering the value of the borrower's home, the current interest rate, and the borrower's life expectancy. A reverse mortgage program that requires borrowers to be age 62 or older is permissible under § 1002.6(b)(2)(iv). In addition, under § 1002.6(b)(2)(iii), a creditor may consider a borrower's age to evaluate a pertinent element of creditworthiness, such as the amount of the credit or monthly payments that the borrower will receive, or the estimated repayment date.
5.
Consideration of age in a combined system.
A creditor using a credit scoring system that qualifies as “empirically derived” under § 1002.2(p) may consider other factors (such as a credit report or the applicant's cash flow) on a judgmental basis. Doing so will not negate the classification of the credit scoring component of the combined system as “demonstrably and statistically sound.” While age could be used in the credit scoring portion, however, in the judgmental portion age may not be considered directly. It may be used only for the purpose of determining a “pertinent element of creditworthiness.” (See comment 6(b)(2)-3.)
6.
Consideration of public assistance.
When considering income derived from a public assistance program, a creditor may take into account, for example:
i. The length of time an applicant will likely remain eligible to receive such income.
ii. Whether the applicant will continue to qualify for benefits based on the status of the applicant's dependents (as in the case of Temporary Aid to Needy Families, or social security payments to a minor).
iii. Whether the creditor can attach or garnish the income to assure payment of the debt in the event of default.
Paragraph 6(b)(5).
1.
Consideration of an individual applicant.
A creditor must evaluate income derived from part-time employment, alimony, child support, separate maintenance payments, retirement benefits, or public assistance on an individual basis, not on the basis of aggregate statistics; and must assess its reliability or unreliability by analyzing the applicant's actual circumstances, not by analyzing statistical measures derived from a group.
2.
Payments consistently made.
In determining the likelihood of consistent payments of alimony, child support, or separate maintenance, a creditor may consider factors such as whether payments are received pursuant to a written agreement or court decree; the length of time that the payments have been received; whether the payments are regularly received by the applicant; the
availability of court or other procedures to compel payment; and the creditworthiness of the payor, including the credit history of the payor when it is available to the creditor.
3.
Consideration of income.
i. A creditor need not consider income at all in evaluating creditworthiness. If a creditor does consider income, there are several acceptable methods, whether in a credit scoring or a judgmental system:
A. A creditor may score or take into account the total sum of all income stated by the applicant without taking steps to evaluate the income for reliability.
B. A creditor may evaluate each component of the applicant's income, and then score or take into account income determined to be reliable separately from other income; or the creditor may disregard that portion of income that is not reliable when it aggregates reliable income.
C. A creditor that does not evaluate all income components for reliability must treat as reliable any component of protected income that is not evaluated.
ii. In considering the separate components of an applicant's income, the creditor may not automatically discount or exclude from consideration any protected income. Any discounting or exclusion must be based on the applicant's actual circumstances.
4.
Part-time employment, sources of income.
A creditor may score or take into account the fact that an applicant has more than one source of earned income—a full-time and a part-time job or two part-time jobs. A creditor may also score or treat earned income from a secondary source differently than earned income from a primary source. The creditor may not, however, score or otherwise take into account the number of sources for income such as retirement income, social security, supplemental security income, and alimony. Nor may the creditor treat negatively the fact that an applicant's only earned income is derived from, for example, a part-time job.
Paragraph 6(b)(6).
1.
Types of credit references.
A creditor may restrict the types of credit history and credit references that it will consider, provided that the restrictions are applied to all credit applicants without regard to sex, marital status, or any other prohibited basis. On the applicant's request, however, a creditor must consider credit information not reported through a credit bureau when the information relates to the same types of credit references and history that the creditor would consider if reported through a credit bureau.
Paragraph 6(b)(7).
1.
National origin—immigration status.
The applicant's immigration status and ties to the community (such as employment and continued residence in the area) could have a bearing on a creditor's ability to obtain repayment. Accordingly, the creditor may consider immigration status and differentiate, for example, between a noncitizen who is a long-time resident with permanent resident status and a noncitizen who is temporarily in this country on a student visa.
2.
National origin—citizenship.
A denial of credit on the ground that an applicant is not a United States citizen is not per se discrimination based on national origin.
Paragraph 6(b)(8).
1.
Prohibited basis—marital status.
A creditor may consider the marital status of an applicant or joint applicant for the purpose of ascertaining the creditor's rights and remedies applicable to the particular extension of credit. For example, in a secured transaction involving real property, a creditor could take into account whether state law gives the applicant's spouse an interest in the property being offered as collateral.

# Section 1002.7—Rules Concerning Extensions of Credit
7(a) Individual accounts.
1.
Open-end credit—authorized user.
A creditor may not require a creditworthy applicant seeking an individual credit account to provide additional signatures. But the creditor may condition the designation of an authorized user by the account holder on the authorized user's becoming contractually liable for the account, as long as the creditor does not differentiate on any prohibited basis in imposing this requirement.
2.
Open-end credit—choice of authorized user.
A creditor that permits an account holder to designate an authorized user may not restrict this designation on a prohibited basis. For example, if the creditor allows the designation of spouses as authorized users, the creditor may not refuse to accept a non-spouse as an authorized user.
3.
Overdraft authority on transaction accounts.
If a transaction account (such as a checking account or NOW account) includes an overdraft line of credit, the creditor may require that all persons authorized to draw on the transaction account assume liability for any overdraft.
7(b) Designation of name.
1.
Single name on account.
A creditor may require that joint applicants on an account designate a single name for purposes of administering the account and that a single name be embossed on any credit cards issued on the account. But the creditor may not require that the name be the husband's name. (See § 1002.10 for rules governing the furnishing of credit history on accounts held by spouses.)
7(c) Action concerning existing open-end accounts.
Paragraph 7(c)(1).
1.
Termination coincidental with marital status change.
When an account holder's marital status changes, a creditor generally may not terminate the account unless it has evidence
that the account holder is now unable or unwilling to repay. But the creditor may terminate an account on which both spouses are jointly liable, even if the action coincides with a change in marital status, when one or both spouses:
i. Repudiate responsibility for future charges on the joint account.
ii. Request separate accounts in their own names.
iii. Request that the joint account be closed.
2.
Updating information.
A creditor may periodically request updated information from applicants but may not use events related to a prohibited basis—such as an applicant's retirement or reaching a particular age, or a change in name or marital status—to trigger such a request.
Paragraph 7(c)(2).
1.
Procedure pending reapplication.
A creditor may require a reapplication from an account holder, even when there is no evidence of unwillingness or inability to repay, if (1) the credit was based on the qualifications of a person who is no longer available to support the credit and (2) the creditor has information indicating that the account holder's income may be insufficient to support the credit. While a reapplication is pending, the creditor must allow the account holder full access to the account under the existing contract terms. The creditor may specify a reasonable time period within which the account holder must submit the required information.
7(d) Signature of spouse or other person.
1.
Qualified applicant.
The signature rules ensure that qualified applicants are able to obtain credit in their own names. Thus, when an applicant requests individual credit, a creditor generally may not require the signature of another person unless the creditor has first determined that the applicant alone does not qualify for the credit requested.
2.
Unqualified applicant.
When an applicant requests individual credit but does not meet a creditor's standards, the creditor may require a cosigner, guarantor, endorser, or similar party—but cannot require that it be the spouse. (See commentary to §§ 1002.7(d)(5) and (6).)
Paragraph 7(d)(1).
1.
Signature of another person.
It is impermissible for a creditor to require an applicant who is individually creditworthy to provide a cosigner—even if the creditor applies the requirement without regard to sex, marital status, or any other prohibited basis. (But see comment 7(d)(6)-1 concerning guarantors of closely held corporations.)
2.
Joint applicant.
The term “joint applicant” refers to someone who applies contemporaneously with the applicant for shared or joint credit. It does not refer to someone whose signature is required by the creditor as a condition for granting the credit requested.
3.
Evidence of joint application.
A person's intent to be a joint applicant must be evidenced at the time of application. Signatures on a promissory note may not be used to show intent to apply for joint credit. On the other hand, signatures or initials on a credit application affirming applicants' intent to apply for joint credit may be used to establish intent to apply for joint credit. (See appendix B.) The method used to establish intent must be distinct from the means used by individuals to affirm the accuracy of information. For example, signatures on a joint financial statement affirming the veracity of information are not sufficient to establish intent to apply for joint credit.
Paragraph 7(d)(2).
1.
Jointly owned property.
If an applicant requests unsecured credit, does not own sufficient separate property, and relies on joint property to establish creditworthiness, the creditor must value the applicant's interest in the jointly owned property. A creditor may not request that a nonapplicant joint owner sign any instrument as a condition of the credit extension unless the applicant's interest does not support the amount and terms of the credit sought.
i.
Valuation of applicant's interest.
In determining the value of an applicant's interest in jointly owned property, a creditor may consider factors such as the form of ownership and the property's susceptibility to attachment, execution, severance, or partition; the value of the applicant's interest after such action; and the cost associated with the action. This determination must be based on the existing form of ownership, and not on the possibility of a subsequent change. For example, in determining whether a married applicant's interest in jointly owned property is sufficient to satisfy the creditor's standards of creditworthiness for individual credit, a creditor may not consider that the applicant's separate property could be transferred into tenancy by the entirety after consummation. Similarly, a creditor may not consider the possibility that the couple may divorce. Accordingly, a creditor may not require the signature of the non-applicant spouse in these or similar circumstances.
ii.
Other options to support credit.
If the applicant's interest in jointly owned property does not support the amount and terms of credit sought, the creditor may offer the applicant other options to qualify for the extension of credit. For example:
A. Providing a co-signer or other party (§ 1002.7(d)(5));
B. Requesting that the credit be granted on a secured basis (§ 1002.7(d)(4)); or
C. Providing the signature of the joint owner on an instrument that ensures access
to the property in the event of the applicant's death or default, but does not impose personal liability unless necessary under state law (such as a limited guarantee). A creditor may not routinely require, however, that a joint owner sign an instrument (such as a quitclaim deed) that would result in the forfeiture of the joint owner's interest in the property.
2.
Need for signature—reasonable belief.
A creditor's reasonable belief as to what instruments need to be signed by a person other than the applicant should be supported by a thorough review of pertinent statutory and decisional law or an opinion of the state attorney general.
Paragraph 7(d)(3).
1.
Residency.
In assessing the creditworthiness of a person who applies for credit in a community property state, a creditor may assume that the applicant is a resident of the state unless the applicant indicates otherwise.
Paragraph 7(d)(4).
1.
Creation of enforceable lien.
Some state laws require that both spouses join in executing any instrument by which real property is encumbered. If an applicant offers such property as security for credit, a creditor may require the applicant's spouse to sign the instruments necessary to create a valid security interest in the property. The creditor may not require the spouse to sign the note evidencing the credit obligation if signing only the mortgage or other security agreement is sufficient to make the property available to satisfy the debt in the event of default. However, if under state law both spouses must sign the note to create an enforceable lien, the creditor may require the signatures.
2.
Need for signature—reasonable belief.
Generally, a signature to make the secured property available will only be needed on a security agreement. A creditor's reasonable belief that, to ensure access to the property, the spouse's signature is needed on an instrument that imposes personal liability should be supported by a thorough review of pertinent statutory and decisional law or an opinion of the state attorney general.
3.
Integrated instruments.
When a creditor uses an integrated instrument that combines the note and the security agreement, the spouse cannot be asked to sign the integrated instrument if the signature is only needed to grant a security interest. But the spouse could be asked to sign an integrated instrument that makes clear—for example, by a legend placed next to the spouse's signature—that the spouse's signature is only to grant a security interest and that signing the instrument does not impose personal liability.
Paragraph 7(d)(5).
1.
Qualifications of additional parties.
In establishing guidelines for eligibility of guarantors, cosigners, or similar additional parties, a creditor may restrict the applicant's choice of additional parties but may not discriminate on the basis of sex, marital status, or any other prohibited basis. For example, the creditor could require that the additional party live in the creditor's market area.
2.
Reliance on income of another person
—
individual credit.
An applicant who requests individual credit relying on the income of another person (including a spouse in a non-community property state) may be required to provide the signature of the other person to make the income available to pay the debt. In community property states, the signature of a spouse may be required if the applicant relies on the spouse's separate income. If the applicant relies on the spouse's future earnings that as a matter of state law cannot be characterized as community property until earned, the creditor may require the spouse's signature, but need not do so—even if it is the creditor's practice to require the signature when an applicant relies on the future earnings of a person other than a spouse. (See § 1002.6(c) on consideration of state property laws.)
3.
Renewals.
If the borrower's creditworthiness is reevaluated when a credit obligation is renewed, the creditor must determine whether an additional party is still warranted and, if not warranted, release the additional party.
Paragraph 7(d)(6).
1.
Guarantees.
A guarantee on an extension of credit is part of a credit transaction and therefore subject to the regulation. A creditor may require the personal guarantee of the partners, directors, or officers of a business, and the shareholders of a closely held corporation, even if the business or corporation is creditworthy. The requirement must be based on the guarantor's relationship with the business or corporation, however, and not on a prohibited basis. For example, a creditor may not require guarantees only for women-owned or minority-owned businesses. Similarly, a creditor may not require guarantees only of the married officers of a business or the married shareholders of a closely held corporation.
2.
Spousal guarantees.
The rules in § 1002.7(d) bar a creditor from requiring the signature of a guarantor's spouse just as they bar the creditor from requiring the signature of an applicant's spouse. For example, although a creditor may require all officers of a closely held corporation to personally guarantee a corporate loan, the creditor may not automatically require that spouses of married officers also sign the guarantee. If an evaluation of the financial circumstances of an officer indicates that an additional signature
is necessary, however, the creditor may require the signature of another person in appropriate circumstances in accordance with § 1002.7(d)(2).
7(e) Insurance.
1.
Differences in terms.
Differences in the availability, rates, and other terms on which credit-related casualty insurance or credit life, health, accident, or disability insurance is offered or provided to an applicant does not violate Regulation B.
2.
Insurance information.
A creditor may obtain information about an applicant's age, sex, or marital status for insurance purposes. The information may only be used for determining eligibility and premium rates for insurance, however, and not in making the credit decision.

# Section 1002.8—Special Purpose Credit Programs
8(a) Standards for programs.
1.
Determining qualified programs.
The Bureau does not determine whether individual programs qualify for special purpose credit status, or whether a particular program benefits an “economically disadvantaged class of persons.” The agency or creditor administering or offering the loan program must make these decisions regarding the status of its program.
2.
Compliance with a program authorized by Federal or state law.
A creditor does not violate Regulation B when it complies in good faith with a regulation promulgated by a government agency implementing a special purpose credit program under § 1002.8(a)(1). It is the agency's responsibility to promulgate a regulation that is consistent with Federal and state law.
3.
Expressly authorized.
Credit programs authorized by Federal or state law include programs offered pursuant to Federal, state, or local statute, regulation or ordinance, or pursuant to judicial or administrative order.
4.
Creditor liability.
A refusal to grant credit to an applicant is not a violation of the Act or regulation if the applicant does not meet the eligibility requirements under a special purpose credit program.
5.
Determining need.
In designing a special purpose credit program under § 1002.8(a), a for-profit organization must determine that the program will benefit a class of people who would otherwise be denied credit or would receive it on less favorable terms. This determination can be based on a broad analysis using the organization's own research or data from outside sources, including governmental reports and studies. For example, a creditor might design new products to reach consumers who would not meet, or have not met, its traditional standards of creditworthiness due to such factors as credit inexperience or the use of credit sources that may not report to consumer reporting agencies. Or, a bank could review Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data along with demographic data for its assessment area and conclude that there is a need for a special purpose credit program for low-income minority borrowers.
6.
Elements of the program.
The written plan must contain information that supports the need for the particular program. The plan also must either state a specific period of time for which the program will last, or contain a statement regarding when the program will be reevaluated to determine if there is a continuing need for it.
8(b) Rules in other sections.
1.
Applicability of rules.
A creditor that rejects an application because the applicant does not meet the eligibility requirements (common characteristic or financial need, for example) must nevertheless notify the applicant of action taken as required by § 1002.9.
8(c) Special rule concerning requests and use of information.
1.
Request of prohibited basis information.
This section permits a creditor to request and consider certain information that would otherwise be prohibited by §§ 1002.5 and 1002.6 to determine an applicant's eligibility for a particular program.
2.
Examples.
Examples of programs under which the creditor can ask for and consider information about a prohibited basis are:
i. Energy conservation programs to assist the elderly, for which the creditor must consider the applicant's age.
ii. Programs under a Minority Enterprise Small Business Investment Corporation, for which a creditor must consider the applicant's minority status.
8(d) Special rule in the case of financial need.
1.
Request of prohibited basis information.
This section permits a creditor to request and consider certain information that would otherwise be prohibited by §§ 1002.5 and 1002.6, and to require signatures that would otherwise be prohibited by § 1002.7(d).
2.
Examples.
Examples of programs in which financial need is a criterion are:
i. Subsidized housing programs for low-to moderate-income households, for which a creditor may have to consider the applicant's receipt of alimony or child support, the spouse's or parents' income, etc.
ii. Student loan programs based on the family's financial need, for which a creditor may have to consider the spouse's or parents' financial resources.
3.
Student loans.
In a guaranteed student loan program, a creditor may obtain the signature of a parent as a guarantor when required by Federal or state law or agency regulation, or when the student does not meet the creditor's standards of creditworthiness. (See §§ 1002.7(d)(1) and (5).) The creditor may not require an additional signature when a student has a work or credit history that satisfies the creditor's standards.

# Section 1002.9—Notifications
1.
Use of the term adverse action.
The regulation does not require that a creditor use the term adverse action in communicating to an applicant that a request for an extension of credit has not been approved. In notifying an applicant of adverse action as defined by § 1002.2(c)(1), a creditor may use any words or phrases that describe the action taken on the application.
2.
Expressly withdrawn applications.
When an applicant expressly withdraws a credit application, the creditor is not required to comply with the notification requirements under § 1002.9. (The creditor must comply, however, with the record retention requirements of the regulation. See § 1002.12(b)(3).)
3.
When notification occurs.
Notification occurs when a creditor delivers or mails a notice to the applicant's last known address or, in the case of an oral notification, when the creditor communicates the credit decision to the applicant.
4.
Location of notice.
The notifications required under § 1002.9 may appear on either or both sides of a form or letter.
5.
Prequalification requests.
Whether a creditor must provide a notice of action taken for a prequalification request depends on the creditor's response to the request, as discussed in comment 2(f)-3. For instance, a creditor may treat the request as an inquiry if the creditor evaluates specific information about the consumer and tells the consumer the loan amount, rate, and other terms of credit the consumer could qualify for under various loan programs, explaining the process the consumer must follow to submit a mortgage application and the information the creditor will analyze in reaching a credit decision. On the other hand, a creditor has treated a request as an application, and is subject to the adverse action notice requirements of § 1002.9 if, after evaluating information, the creditor decides that it will not approve the request and communicates that decision to the consumer. For example, if the creditor tells the consumer that it would not approve an application for a mortgage because of a bankruptcy in the consumer's record, the creditor has denied an application for credit.
9(a) Notification of action taken, ECOA notice, and statement of specific reasons.
Paragraph 9(a)(1).
1.
Timing of notice—when an application is complete.
Once a creditor has obtained all the information it normally considers in making a credit decision, the application is complete and the creditor has 30 days in which to notify the applicant of the credit decision. (See also comment 2(f)-6.)
2.
Notification of approval.
Notification of approval may be express or by implication. For example, the creditor will satisfy the notification requirement when it gives the applicant the credit card, money, property, or services requested.
3.
Incomplete application—denial for incompleteness.
When an application is incomplete regarding information that the applicant can provide and the creditor lacks sufficient data for a credit decision, the creditor may deny the application giving as the reason for denial that the application is incomplete. The creditor has the option, alternatively, of providing a notice of incompleteness under § 1002.9(c).
4.
Incomplete application—denial for reasons other than incompleteness.
When an application is missing information but provides sufficient data for a credit decision, the creditor may evaluate the application, make its credit decision, and notify the applicant accordingly. If credit is denied, the applicant must be given the specific reasons for the credit denial (or notice of the right to receive the reasons); in this instance missing information or “incomplete application” cannot be given as the reason for the denial.
5.
Length of counteroffer.
Section 1002.9(a)(1)(iv) does not require a creditor to hold a counteroffer open for 90 days or any other particular length of time.
6.
Counteroffer combined with adverse action notice.
A creditor that gives the applicant a combined counteroffer and adverse action notice that complies with § 1002.9(a)(2) need not send a second adverse action notice if the applicant does not accept the counteroffer. A sample of a combined notice is contained in form C-4 of appendix C to the regulation.
7.
Denial of a telephone application.
When an application is made by telephone and adverse action is taken, the creditor must request the applicant's name and address in order to provide written notification under this section. If the applicant declines to provide that information, then the creditor has no further notification responsibility.
Paragraph 9(a)(3).
1.
Coverage.
In determining which rules in this paragraph apply to a given business credit application, a creditor may rely on the applicant's assertion about the revenue size of the business. (Applications to start a business are governed by the rules in § 1002.9(a)(3)(i).) If an applicant applies for credit as a sole proprietor, the revenues of the sole proprietorship will determine which rules govern the application. However, if an applicant applies for business credit as an individual, the rules in § 1002.9(a)(3)(i) apply unless the application is for trade or similar credit.
2.
Trade credit.
The term trade credit generally is limited to a financing arrangement that involves a buyer and a seller—such as a supplier who finances the sale of equipment, supplies, or inventory; it does not apply to
an extension of credit by a bank or other financial institution for the financing of such items.
3
. Factoring.
Factoring refers to a purchase of accounts receivable, and thus is not subject to the Act or regulation. If there is a credit extension incident to the factoring arrangement, the notification rules in § 1002.9(a)(3)(ii) apply, as do other relevant sections of the Act and regulation.
4.
Manner of compliance.
In complying with the notice provisions of the Act and regulation, creditors offering business credit may follow the rules governing consumer credit. Similarly, creditors may elect to treat all business credit the same (irrespective of revenue size) by providing notice in accordance with § 1002.9(a)(3)(i).
5.
Timing of notification.
A creditor subject to § 1002.9(a)(3)(ii)(A) is required to notify a business credit applicant, orally or in writing, of action taken on an application within a reasonable time of receiving a completed application. Notice provided in accordance with the timing requirements of § 1002.9(a)(1) is deemed reasonable in all instances.
9(b) Form of ECOA notice and statement of specific reasons.
Paragraph 9(b)(1).
1.
Substantially similar notice.
The ECOA notice sent with a notification of a credit denial or other adverse action will comply with the regulation if it is “substantially similar” to the notice contained in § 1002.9(b)(1). For example, a creditor may add a reference to the fact that the ECOA permits age to be considered in certain credit scoring systems, or add a reference to a similar state statute or regulation and to a state enforcement agency.
Paragraph 9(b)(2).
1.
Number of specific reasons.
A creditor must disclose the principal reasons for denying an application or taking other adverse action. The regulation does not mandate that a specific number of reasons be disclosed, but disclosure of more than four reasons is not likely to be helpful to the applicant.
2.
Source of specific reasons.
The specific reasons disclosed under §§ 1002.9(a)(2) and (b)(2) must relate to and accurately describe the factors actually considered or scored by a creditor.
3.
Description of reasons.
A creditor need not describe how or why a factor adversely affected an applicant. For example, the notice may say “length of residence” rather than “too short a period of residence.”
4.
Credit scoring system.
If a creditor bases the denial or other adverse action on a credit scoring system, the reasons disclosed must relate only to those factors actually scored in the system. Moreover, no factor that was a principal reason for adverse action may be excluded from disclosure. The creditor must disclose the actual reasons for denial (for example, “age of automobile”) even if the relationship of that factor to predicting creditworthiness may not be clear to the applicant.
5.
Credit scoring
—
method for selecting reasons.
The regulation does not require that any one method be used for selecting reasons for a credit denial or other adverse action that is based on a credit scoring system. Various methods will meet the requirements of the regulation. One method is to identify the factors for which the applicant's score fell furthest below the average score for each of those factors achieved by applicants whose total score was at or slightly above the minimum passing score. Another method is to identify the factors for which the applicant's score fell furthest below the average score for each of those factors achieved by all applicants. These average scores could be calculated during the development or use of the system. Any other method that produces results substantially similar to either of these methods is also acceptable under the regulation.
6.
Judgmental system.
If a creditor uses a judgmental system, the reasons for the denial or other adverse action must relate to those factors in the applicant's record actually reviewed by the person making the decision.
7.
Combined credit scoring and judgmental system.
If a creditor denies an application based on a credit evaluation system that employs both credit scoring and judgmental components, the reasons for the denial must come from the component of the system that the applicant failed. For example, if a creditor initially credit scores an application and denies the credit request as a result of that scoring, the reasons disclosed to the applicant must relate to the factors scored in the system. If the application passes the credit scoring stage but the creditor then denies the credit request based on a judgmental assessment of the applicant's record, the reasons disclosed must relate to the factors reviewed judgmentally, even if the factors were also considered in the credit scoring component. If the application is not approved or denied as a result of the credit scoring, but falls into a gray band, and the creditor performs a judgmental assessment and denies the credit after that assessment, the reasons disclosed must come from both components of the system. The same result applies where a judgmental assessment is the first component of the combined system. As provided in comment 9(b)(2)-1, disclosure of more than a combined total of four reasons is not likely to be helpful to the applicant.
8.
Automatic denial.
Some credit decision methods contain features that call for automatic denial because of one or more negative factors in the applicant's record (such as the applicant's previous bad credit history with that creditor, the applicant's declaration of
bankruptcy, or the fact that the applicant is a minor). When a creditor denies the credit request because of an automatic-denial factor, the creditor must disclose that specific factor.
9.
Combined ECOA-FCRA disclosures.
The ECOA requires disclosure of the principal reasons for denying or taking other adverse action on an application for an extension of credit. The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) requires a creditor to disclose when it has based its decision in whole or in part on information from a source other than the applicant or its own files. Disclosing that a credit report was obtained and used in the denial of the application, as the FCRA requires, does not satisfy the ECOA requirement to disclose specific reasons. For example, if the applicant's credit history reveals delinquent credit obligations and the application is denied for that reason, to satisfy § 1002.9(b)(2) the creditor must disclose that the application was denied because of the applicant's delinquent credit obligations. The FCRA also requires a creditor to disclose, as applicable, a credit score it used in taking adverse action along with related information, including up to four key factors that adversely affected the consumer's credit score (or up to five factors if the number of inquiries made with respect to that consumer report is a key factor). Disclosing the key factors that adversely affected the consumer's credit score does not satisfy the ECOA requirement to disclose specific reasons for denying or taking other adverse action on an application or extension of credit. Sample forms C-1 through C-5 of appendix C of the regulation provide for both the ECOA and FCRA disclosures. See also comment 9(b)(2)-1.
9(c) Incomplete applications.
Paragraph 9(c)(1).
1.
Exception for preapprovals.
The requirement to provide a notice of incompleteness does not apply to preapprovals that constitute applications under § 1002.2(f).
Paragraph 9(c)(2).
1.
Reapplication.
If information requested by a creditor is submitted by an applicant after the expiration of the time period designated by the creditor, the creditor may require the applicant to make a new application.
Paragraph 9(c)(3).
1.
Oral inquiries for additional information.
If an applicant fails to provide the information in response to an oral request, a creditor must send a written notice to the applicant within the 30-day period specified in §§ 1002.9(c)(1) and (2). If the applicant provides the information, the creditor must take action on the application and notify the applicant in accordance with § 1002.9(a).
9(g) Applications submitted through a third party.
1.
Third parties.
The notification of adverse action may be given by one of the creditors to whom an application was submitted, or by a noncreditor third party. If one notification is provided on behalf of multiple creditors, the notice must contain the name and address of each creditor. The notice must either disclose the applicant's right to a statement of specific reasons within 30 days, or give the primary reasons each creditor relied upon in taking the adverse action—clearly indicating which reasons relate to which creditor.
2.
Third party notice—enforcement agency.
If a single adverse action notice is being provided to an applicant on behalf of several creditors and they are under the jurisdiction of different Federal enforcement agencies, the notice need not name each agency; disclosure of any one of them will suffice.
3.
Third-party notice—liability.
When a notice is to be provided through a third party, a creditor is not liable for an act or omission of the third party that constitutes a violation of the regulation if the creditor accurately and in a timely manner provided the third party with the information necessary for the notification and maintains reasonable procedures adapted to prevent such violations.

# Section 1002.10—Furnishing of Credit Information
1.
Scope.
The requirements of § 1002.10 for designating and reporting credit information apply only to consumer credit transactions. Moreover, they apply only to creditors that opt to furnish credit information to credit bureaus or to other creditors; there is no requirement that a creditor furnish credit information on its accounts.
2.
Reporting on all accounts.
The requirements of § 1002.10 apply only to accounts held or used by spouses. However, a creditor has the option to designate all joint accounts (or all accounts with an authorized user) to reflect the participation of both parties, whether or not the accounts are held by persons married to each other.
3.
Designating accounts.
In designating accounts and reporting credit information, a creditor need not distinguish between accounts on which the spouse is an authorized user and accounts on which the spouse is a contractually liable party.
4.
File and index systems.
The regulation does not require the creation or maintenance of separate files in the name of each participant on a joint or user account, or require any other particular system of recordkeeping or indexing. It requires only that a creditor be able to report information in the name of each spouse on accounts covered by § 1002.10. Thus, if a creditor receives a credit inquiry about the wife, it should be able to locate her credit file without asking the husband's name.
10(a) Designation of accounts.
1.
New parties.
When new parties who are spouses undertake a legal obligation on an account, as in the case of a mortgage loan assumption, the creditor must change the designation on the account to reflect the new parties and must furnish subsequent credit information on the account in the new names.
2.
Request to change designation of account.
A request to change the manner in which information concerning an account is furnished does not alter the legal liability of either spouse on the account and does not require a creditor to change the name in which the account is maintained.

# Section 1002.11—Relation to State Law
11(a) Inconsistent state laws.
1.
Preemption determination—New York.
The Bureau recognizes state law preemption determinations made by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System prior to July 21, 2011, until and unless the Bureau makes and publishes any contrary determination. The Board of Governors determined that the following provisions in the state law of New York are preempted by the Federal law, effective November 11, 1988:
i. Article 15, section 296a(1)(b). Unlawful discriminatory practices in relation to credit on the basis of race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, marital status, or disability. This provision is preempted to the extent that it bars taking a prohibited basis into account when establishing eligibility for certain special-purpose credit programs.
ii. Article 15, section 296a(1)(c). Unlawful discriminatory practice to make any record or inquiry based on race, creed, color, national origin, age, sex, marital status, or disability. This provision is preempted to the extent that it bars a creditor from requesting and considering information regarding the particular characteristics (for example, race, national origin, or sex) required for eligibility for special-purpose credit programs.
2.
Preemption determination—Ohio.
The Bureau recognizes state law preemption determinations made by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System prior to July 21, 2011, until and unless the Bureau makes and publishes any contrary determination. The Board of Governors determined that the following provision in the state law of Ohio is preempted by the Federal law, effective July 23, 1990:
i. Section 4112.021(B)(1)—Unlawful discriminatory practices in credit transactions. This provision is preempted to the extent that it bars asking or favorably considering the age of an elderly applicant; prohibits the consideration of age in a credit scoring system; permits without limitation the consideration of age in real estate transactions; and limits the consideration of age in special-purpose credit programs to certain government-sponsored programs identified in the state law.

# Section 1002.12—Record Retention
12(a) Retention of prohibited information.
1.
Receipt of prohibited information.
Unless the creditor specifically requested such information, a creditor does not violate this section when it receives prohibited information from a consumer reporting agency.
2.
Use of retained information.
Although a creditor may keep in its files prohibited information as provided in § 1002.12(a), the creditor may use the information in evaluating credit applications only if permitted to do so by § 1002.6.
12(b) Preservation of records.
1.
Copies.
Copies of the original record include carbon copies, photocopies, microfilm or microfiche copies, or copies produced by any other accurate retrieval system, such as documents stored and reproduced by computer. A creditor that uses a computerized or mechanized system need not keep a paper copy of a document (for example, of an adverse action notice) if it can regenerate all pertinent information in a timely manner for examination or other purposes.
2.
Computerized decisions.
A creditor that enters information items from a written application into a computerized or mechanized system and makes the credit decision mechanically, based only on the items of information entered into the system, may comply with § 1002.12(b) by retaining the information actually entered. It is not required to store the complete written application, nor is it required to enter the remaining items of information into the system. If the transaction is subject to § 1002.13 or the creditor is collecting information pursuant to § 1002.5(a)(4), however, the creditor is required to enter and retain the data on personal characteristics in order to comply with the requirements of that section.
Paragraph 12(b)(3).
1.
Withdrawn and brokered applications.
In most cases, the 25-month retention period for applications runs from the date a notification is sent to the applicant granting or denying the credit requested. In certain transactions, a creditor is not obligated to provide a notice of the action taken. (See, for example, comment 9-2.) In such cases, the 25-month requirement runs from the date of application, as when:
i. An application is withdrawn by the applicant.
ii. An application is submitted to more than one creditor on behalf of the applicant, and the application is approved by one of the other creditors.
12(b)(6) Self-tests.
1. The rule requires all written or recorded information about a self-test to be retained
for 25 months after a self-test has been completed. For this purpose, a self-test is completed after the creditor has obtained the results and made a determination about what corrective action, if any, is appropriate. Creditors are required to retain information about the scope of the self-test, the methodology used and time period covered by the self-test, the report or results of the self-test including any analysis or conclusions, and any corrective action taken in response to the self-test.
12(b)(7) Preapplication Marketing Information
1.
Prescreened credit solicitations.
The rule requires creditors to retain copies of prescreened credit solicitations. For purposes of this part, a prescreened solicitation is an “offer of credit” as described in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(1) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act. A creditor complies with § 1002.12(b)(7) if it retains a copy of each solicitation mailing that contains different terms, such as the amount of credit offered, annual percentage rate, or annual fee.
2.
List of criteria.
A creditor must retain the list of criteria used to select potential recipients. This includes the criteria used by the creditor both to determine the potential recipients of the particular solicitation and to determine who will actually be offered credit.
3.
Correspondence.
A creditor may retain correspondence relating to consumers' complaints about prescreened solicitations in any manner that is reasonably accessible and is understandable to examiners. There is no requirement to establish a separate database or set of files for such correspondence, or to match consumer complaints with specific solicitation programs.

# Section 1002.13—Information for Monitoring Purposes
13(a) Information to be requested.
1.
Natural person.
Section 1002.13 applies only to applications from natural persons.
2.
Principal residence.
The requirements of § 1002.13 apply only if an application relates to a dwelling that is or will be occupied by the applicant as the principal residence. A credit application related to a vacation home or a rental unit is not covered. In the case of a two-to four-unit dwelling, the application is covered if the applicant intends to occupy one of the units as a principal residence.
3.
Temporary financing.
An application for temporary financing to construct a dwelling is not subject to § 1002.13. But an application for both a temporary loan to finance construction of a dwelling and a permanent mortgage loan to take effect upon the completion of construction is subject to § 1002.13.
4.
New principal residence.
A person can have only one principal residence at a time. However, if a person buys or builds a new dwelling that will become that person's principal residence within a year or upon completion of construction, the new dwelling is considered the principal residence for purposes of § 1002.13.
5.
Transactions not covered.
The information-collection requirements of this section apply to applications for credit primarily for the purchase or refinancing of a dwelling that is or will become the applicant's principal residence. Therefore, applications for credit secured by the applicant's principal residence but made primarily for a purpose other than the purchase or refinancing of the principal residence (such as loans for home improvement and debt consolidation) are not subject to the information-collection requirements. An application for an open-end home equity line of credit is not subject to this section unless it is readily apparent to the creditor when the application is taken that the primary purpose of the line is for the purchase or refinancing of a principal dwelling.
6.
Refinancings.
A refinancing occurs when an existing obligation is satisfied and replaced by a new obligation undertaken by the same borrower. A creditor that receives an application to refinance an existing extension of credit made by that creditor for the purchase of the applicant's dwelling may request the monitoring information again but is not required to do so if it was obtained in the earlier transaction.
7.
Data collection under Regulation C.
For applications subject to § 1002.13(a)(1), a creditor that collects information about the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant in compliance with the requirements of appendix B to 12 CFR part 1003 is acting in compliance with § 1002.13 concerning the collection of an applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex information.
See also
comment 5(a)(2)-2.
8.
Application-by-application basis.
For applications subject to § 1002.13(a)(1), a creditor may choose on an application-by-application basis whether to collect aggregate information pursuant to § 1002.13(a)(1)(i)(A) or disaggregated information pursuant to § 1002.13(a)(1)(i)(B) about the ethnicity and race of the applicant.
13(b) Obtaining of Information
1.
Forms for collecting data.
A creditor may collect the information specified in § 1002.13(a) either on an application form or on a separate form referring to the application. Appendix B to this part provides for two alternative data collection model forms for use in complying with the requirements of § 1002.13(a)(1)(i) and (ii) to collect information concerning an applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex. When a creditor collects ethnicity and race information pursuant to § 1002.13(a)(1)(i)(A), the applicant must be offered the option to select more than one racial designation. When a creditor collects ethnicity and race information pursuant to
§ 1002.13(a)(1)(i)(B), the applicant must be offered the option to select more than one ethnicity designation and more than one racial designation.
2.
Written applications.
The regulation requires written applications for the types of credit covered by § 1002.13. A creditor can satisfy this requirement by recording on paper or by means of computer the information that the applicant provides orally and that the creditor normally considers in a credit decision.
3.
Telephone, mail applications.
i. A creditor that accepts an application by telephone or mail must request the monitoring information.
ii. A creditor that accepts an application by mail need not make a special request for the monitoring information if the applicant has failed to provide it on the application form returned to the creditor.
iii. If it is not evident on the face of an application that it was received by mail, telephone, or via an electronic medium, the creditor should indicate on the form or other application record how the application was received.
4.
Video and other electronic-application processes.
i. If a creditor takes an application through an electronic medium that allows the creditor to see the applicant, the creditor must treat the application as taken in person. The creditor must note the monitoring information on the basis of visual observation or surname, if the applicant chooses not to provide the information.
ii. If an applicant applies through an electronic medium without video capability, the creditor treats the application as if it were received by mail.
5.
Applications through loan-shopping services.
When a creditor receives an application through an unaffiliated loan-shopping service, it does not have to request the monitoring information for purposes of the ECOA or subpart A of this Regulation B. Creditors subject to the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act should be aware, however, that data collection may be called for under Regulation C (12 CFR part 1003), which generally requires creditors to report, among other things, the sex and race of an applicant on brokered applications or applications received through a correspondent. Similarly, creditors that are covered financial institutions under subpart B of this Regulation may also be required to collect, report, and maintain certain data, as set forth in subpart B of this Regulation.
6.
Inadvertent notation.
If a creditor inadvertently obtains the monitoring information in a dwelling-related transaction not covered by § 1002.13, the creditor may process and retain the application without violating the regulation.
13(c) Disclosure to applicants.
1.
Procedures for providing disclosures.
The disclosure to an applicant regarding the monitoring information may be provided in writing. Appendix B provides data collection model forms for use in complying with § 1002.13 and that comply with § 1002.13(c). A creditor may devise its own disclosure so long as it is substantially similar. The creditor need not orally request the monitoring information if it is requested in writing.
13(d) Substitute monitoring program.
1.
Substitute program.
An enforcement agency may adopt, under its established rulemaking or enforcement procedures, a program requiring creditors under its jurisdiction to collect information in addition to information required by this section.

# Section 1002.14—Rules on Providing Appraisals and Valuations
14(a) Providing appraisals and other valuations.
1.
Multiple applicants.
If there is more than one applicant, the written disclosure about written appraisals, and the copies of appraisals and other written valuations, need only be given to one applicant. However, these materials must be given to the primary applicant where one is readily apparent. Similarly, if there is more than one applicant for credit in the transaction, one applicant may provide a waiver under § 1002.14(a)(1), but it must be the primary applicant where one is readily apparent.
14(a)(1) In general.
1.
Coverage.
Section 1002.14 covers applications for credit to be secured by a first lien on a dwelling, as that term is defined in § 1002.14(b)(2), whether the credit is for a business purpose (for example, a loan to start a business) or a consumer purpose (for example, a loan to purchase a home).
2.
Renewals.
Section 1002.14(a)(1) applies when an applicant requests the renewal of an existing extension of credit and the creditor develops a new appraisal or other written valuation. Section 1002.14(a)(1) does not apply to the extent a creditor uses the appraisals and other written valuations that were previously developed in connection with the prior extension of credit to evaluate the renewal request.
3.
Written.
For purposes of § 1002.14, an “appraisal or other written valuation” includes, without limitation, an appraisal or other valuation received or developed by the creditor in paper form (hard copy); electronically, such as CD or email; or by any other similar media. See § 1002.14(a)(5) regarding the provision of copies of appraisals and other written valuations to applicants via electronic means.
4.
Timing.
Section 1002.14(a)(1) requires that the creditor “provide” copies of appraisals and other written valuations to the applicant “promptly upon completion,” or no later than three business days before consummation (for closed-end credit) or account
opening (for open-end credit), whichever is earlier.
i. For purposes of this timing requirement, “provide” means “deliver.” Delivery occurs three business days after mailing or delivering the copies to the last-known address of the applicant, or when evidence indicates actual receipt by the applicant, whichever is earlier. Delivery to or actual receipt by the applicant by electronic means must comply with the E-Sign Act, as provided for in § 1002.14(a)(5).
ii. The application and meaning of the “promptly upon completion” standard depends upon the facts and circumstances, including but not limited to when the creditor receives the appraisal or other written valuation, and the extent of any review or revision after the creditor receives it.
iii. “Completion” occurs when the last version is received by the creditor, or when the creditor has reviewed and accepted the appraisal or other written valuation to include any changes or corrections required, whichever is later.
See also
comment 14(a)(1)-7.
iv. In a transaction that is being consummated (for closed-end credit) or in which the account is being opened (for open-end credit), if an appraisal or other written valuation has been developed but is not yet complete, the deadline for providing a copy of three business days before consummation or account opening still applies, unless the applicant waived that deadline as provided under § 1002.14(a)(1), in which case the copy must be provided at or before consummation or account opening.
v. Even if the transaction will not be consummated (for closed-end credit) or the account will not be opened (for open-end credit), the copy must be provided “promptly upon completion” as provided for in § 1002.14(a)(1), unless the applicant has waived that deadline as provided under § 1002.14(a)(1), in which case as provided for in § 1002.14(a)(1) the copy must be provided to the applicant no later than 30 days after the creditor determines the transaction will not be consummated or the account will not be opened.
5.
Promptly upon completion-examples.
Examples in which the “promptly upon completion” standard would be satisfied include, but are not limited to, those in subparagraphs i, ii, and iii below. Examples in which the “promptly upon completion” standard would not be satisfied include, but are not limited to, those in subparagraphs iv and v below.
i.
Sending a copy of an appraisal within a week of completion with sufficient time before consummation (or account opening for open-end credit).
On day 15 after receipt of the application, the creditor's underwriting department reviews an appraisal and determines it is acceptable. One week later, the creditor sends a copy of the appraisal to the applicant. The applicant actually receives the copy more than three business days before the date of consummation (or account opening). The creditor has provided the copy of the appraisal promptly upon completion.
ii.
Sending a copy of a revised appraisal within a week after completion and with sufficient time before consummation (or account opening for open-end credit).
An appraisal is being revised, and the creditor does not receive the revised appraisal until day 45 after the application, when the creditor immediately determines the revised appraisal is acceptable. A week later, the creditor sends a copy of the revised appraisal to the applicant, and does not send a copy of the initial appraisal to the applicant. The applicant actually receives the copy of the revised appraisal three business days before the date of consummation (or account opening). The creditor has provided the appraisal copy promptly upon completion.
iii.
Sending a copy of an AVM report within a week after its receipt and with sufficient time before consummation (or account opening for open-end credit).
The creditor receives an automated valuation model (AVM) report on day 5 after receipt of the application and treats the AVM report as complete when it is received. On day 12 after receipt of the application, the creditor sends the applicant a copy of the valuation. The applicant actually receives the valuation more than three business days before the date of consummation (or account opening). The creditor has provided the copy of the AVM report promptly upon completion.
iv.
Delay in sending an appraisal.
On day 12 after receipt of the application, the creditor's underwriting department reviews an appraisal and determines it is acceptable. Although the creditor has determined the appraisal is complete, the creditor waits to provide a copy to the applicant until day 42, when the creditor schedules the consummation (or account opening) to occur on day 50. The creditor has not provided the copy of the appraisal promptly upon completion.
v.
Delay in sending an AVM report while waiting for completion of a second valuation.
The creditor receives an AVM report on day 5 after application and completes its review of the AVM report the day it is received. The creditor also has ordered an appraisal, but the initial version of the appraisal received by the creditor is found to be deficient and is sent for review. The creditor waits 30 days to provide a copy of the completed AVM report, until the appraisal is completed on day 35. The creditor then provides the applicant with copies of the AVM report and the revised appraisal. While the appraisal report was provided promptly upon completion, the AVM report was not.
6.
Waiver.
Section 1002.14(a)(1) permits the applicant to waive the timing requirement if
the creditor provides the copies at or before consummation or account opening, except where otherwise prohibited by law. Except where otherwise prohibited by law, an applicant's waiver is effective under § 1002.14(a)(1) in either of the following two situations:
i. If, no later than three business days prior to consummation or account opening, the applicant provides the creditor an affirmative oral or written statement waiving the timing requirement under this rule; or
ii. If, within three business days of consummation or account opening, the applicant provides the creditor an affirmative oral or written statement waiving the timing requirement under this rule and the waiver pertains solely to the applicant's receipt of a copy of an appraisal or other written valuation that contains only clerical changes from a previous version of the appraisal or other written valuation provided to the applicant three or more business days prior to consummation or account opening. For purpose of this second type of waiver, revisions will only be considered to be clerical in nature if they have no impact on the estimated value, and have no impact on the calculation or methodology used to derive the estimate. In addition, under § 1002.14(a)(1) the applicant still must receive the copy of the revision at or prior to consummation or account opening.
7.
Multiple versions of appraisals or valuations.
For purposes of § 1002.14(a)(1), the reference to “all” appraisals and other written valuations does not refer to all versions of the same appraisal or other valuation. If a creditor has received multiple versions of an appraisal or other written valuation, the creditor is required to provide only a copy of the latest version received. If, however, a creditor already has provided a copy of one version of an appraisal or other written valuation to an applicant, and the creditor later receives a revision of that appraisal or other written valuation, then the creditor also must provide the applicant with a copy of the revision to comply with § 1002.14(a)(1). If a creditor receives only one version of an appraisal or other valuation that is developed in connection with the applicant's application, then that version must be provided to the applicant to comply with § 1002.14(a)(1).
See also
comment 14(a)(1)-4 above.
14(a)(2) Disclosure.
1.
Appraisal independence requirements not affected.
Nothing in the text of the disclosure required by § 1002.14(a)(2) should be construed to affect, modify, limit, or supersede the operation of any legal, regulatory, or other requirements or standards relating to independence in the conduct of appraisers or the use of applicant-ordered appraisals by creditors.
14(a)(3) Reimbursement.
1.
Photocopy, postage, or other costs.
Creditors may not charge for photocopy, postage, or other costs incurred in providing a copy of an appraisal or other written valuation in accordance with section 14(a)(1).
2.
Reasonable fee for reimbursement.
Section 1002.14(a)(3) does not prohibit a creditor from imposing a reasonable fee to reimburse the creditor's costs of the appraisal or other written valuation, so long as the fee is not increased to cover the costs of providing copies of such appraisals or other written valuations under § 1002.14(a)(1). A creditor's cost may include an administration fee charged to the creditor by an appraisal management company as defined in 12 U.S.C. 3350(11). Section 1002.14(a)(3) does not, however, legally obligate the applicant to pay such fees. Further, creditors may not impose fees for reimbursement of the costs of an appraisal or other valuation where otherwise prohibited by law. For instance, a creditor may not charge a consumer a fee for the performance of a second appraisal if the second appraisal is required under 15 U.S.C. 1639h(b)(2) and 12 CFR 1026.35(c).
14(b) Definitions.
14(b)(1) Consummation.
1.
State law governs.
When a contractual obligation on the consumer's part is created is a matter to be determined under applicable law; § 1002.14 does not make this determination. A contractual commitment agreement, for example, that under applicable law binds the consumer to the credit terms would be consummation. Consummation, however, does not occur merely because the consumer has made some financial investment in the transaction (for example, by paying a nonrefundable fee) unless, of course, applicable law holds otherwise.
2.
Credit vs. sale.
Consummation does not occur when the consumer becomes contractually committed to a sale transaction, unless the consumer also becomes legally obligated to accept a particular credit arrangement.
14(b)(2) Dwelling.
1.
“Motor vehicles” not covered.
The requirements of § 1002.14 do not apply to “motor vehicles” as defined by 12 U.S.C. 5519(f)(1).
14(b)(3) Valuation.
1.
Valuations—examples.
Examples of valuations include but are not limited to:
i. A report prepared by an appraiser (whether or not licensed or certified) including the appraiser's estimate of the property's value or opinion of value.
ii. A document prepared by the creditor's staff that assigns value to the property.
iii. A report approved by a government-sponsored enterprise for describing to the applicant the estimate of the property's value developed pursuant to the proprietary methodology or mechanism of the government-sponsored enterprise.
iv. A report generated by use of an automated valuation model to estimate the property's value.
v. A broker price opinion prepared by a real estate broker, agent, or sales person to estimate the property's value.
2.
Attachments and exhibits.
The term “valuation” includes any attachments and exhibits that are an integrated part of the valuation.
3.
Other documentation.
Not all documents that discuss or restate a valuation of an applicant's property constitute a “valuation” for purposes of § 1002.14(b)(3). Examples of documents that discuss the valuation of the applicant's property or may reflect its value but nonetheless are not “valuations” include but are not limited to:
i. Internal documents that merely restate the estimated value of the dwelling contained in an appraisal or written valuation being provided to the applicant.
ii. Governmental agency statements of appraised value that are publically available.
iii. Publicly-available lists of valuations (such as published sales prices or mortgage amounts, tax assessments, and retail price ranges).
iv. Manufacturers' invoices for manufactured homes.
v. Reports reflecting property inspections that do not provide an estimate of the value of the property and are not used to develop an estimate of the value of the property.
vi. Appraisal reviews that do not include the appraiser's estimate of the property's value or opinion of value.

# Section 1002.15—Incentives for Self-Testing and Self-Correction
15(a) General rules.
15(a)(1) Voluntary self-testing and correction.
1. Activities required by any governmental authority are not voluntary self-tests. A governmental authority includes both administrative and judicial authorities for Federal, State, and local governments.
15(a)(2) Corrective action required.
1. To qualify for the privilege, appropriate corrective action is required when the results of a self-test show that it is more likely than not that there has been a violation of the ECOA or this part. A self-test is also privileged when it identifies no violations.
2. In some cases, the issue of whether certain information is privileged may arise before the self-test is complete or corrective actions are fully under way. This would not necessarily prevent a creditor from asserting the privilege. In situations where the self-test is not complete, for the privilege to apply the lender must satisfy the regulation's requirements within a reasonable period of time. To assert the privilege where the self-test shows a likely violation, the rule requires, at a minimum, that the creditor establish a plan for corrective action and a method to demonstrate progress in implementing the plan. Creditors must take appropriate corrective action on a timely basis after the results of the self-test are known.
3. A creditor's determination about the type of corrective action needed, or a finding that no corrective action is required, is not conclusive in determining whether the requirements of this paragraph have been satisfied. If a creditor's claim of privilege is challenged, an assessment of the need for corrective action or the type of corrective action that is appropriate must be based on a review of the self-testing results, which may require an
in camera
inspection of the privileged documents.
15(a)(3) Other privileges.
1. A creditor may assert the privilege established under this section in addition to asserting any other privilege that may apply, such as the attorney-client privilege or the work-product privilege. Self-testing data may be privileged under this section whether or not the creditor's assertion of another privilege is upheld.
15(b) Self-test defined.
15(b)(1) Definition.
Paragraph 15(b)(1)(i).
1. To qualify for the privilege, a self-test must be sufficient to constitute a determination of the extent or effectiveness of the creditor's compliance with the Act and Regulation B. Accordingly, a self-test is only privileged if it was designed and used for that purpose. A self-test that is designed or used to determine compliance with other laws or regulations or for other purposes is not privileged under this rule. For example, a self-test designed to evaluate employee efficiency or customers' satisfaction with the level of service provided by the creditor is not privileged even if evidence of discrimination is uncovered incidentally. If a self-test is designed for multiple purposes, only the portion designed to determine compliance with the ECOA is eligible for the privilege.
Paragraph 15(b)(1)(ii).
1. The principal attribute of self-testing is that it constitutes a voluntary undertaking by the creditor to produce new data or factual information that otherwise would not be available and could not be derived from loan or application files or other records related to credit transactions. Self-testing includes, but is not limited to, the practice of using fictitious applicants for credit (testers), either with or without the use of matched pairs. A creditor may elect to test a defined segment of its business, for example, loan applications processed by a specific branch or loan officer, or applications made for a particular type of credit or loan program. A creditor also may use other methods of generating information that is not available in loan and application files, such as surveying mortgage loan applicants. To the extent permitted by law, creditors might also develop new methods that go beyond traditional pre-application testing, such as
hiring testers to submit fictitious loan applications for processing.
2. The privilege does not protect a creditor's analysis performed as part of processing or underwriting a credit application. A creditor's evaluation or analysis of its loan files, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act data, or similar types of records (such as broker or loan officer compensation records) does not produce new information about a creditor's compliance and is not a self-test for purposes of this section. Similarly, a statistical analysis of data derived from existing loan files is not privileged.
15(b)(3) Types of information not privileged.
Paragraph 15(b)(3)(i).
1. The information listed in this paragraph is not privileged and may be used to determine whether the prerequisites for the privilege have been satisfied. Accordingly, a creditor might be asked to identify the self-testing method, for example, whether preapplication testers were used or data were compiled by surveying loan applicants. Information about the scope of the self-test (such as the types of credit transactions examined, or the geographic area covered by the test) also is not privileged.
Paragraph 15(b)(3)(ii).
1. Property appraisal reports, minutes of loan committee meetings or other documents reflecting the basis for a decision to approve or deny an application, loan policies or procedures, underwriting standards, and broker compensation records are examples of the types of records that are not privileged. If a creditor arranges for testers to submit loan applications for processing, the records are not related to actual credit transactions for purposes of this paragraph and may be privileged self-testing records.
15(c) Appropriate corrective action.
1. The rule only addresses the corrective actions required for a creditor to take advantage of the privilege in this section. A creditor may be required to take other actions or provide additional relief if a formal finding of discrimination is made.
15(c)(1) General requirement.
1. Appropriate corrective action is required even though no violation has been formally adjudicated or admitted by the creditor. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a violation occurred, a creditor must treat testers as if they are actual applicants for credit. A creditor may not refuse to take appropriate corrective action under this section because the self-test used fictitious loan applicants. The fact that a tester's agreement with the creditor waives the tester's legal right to assert a violation does not eliminate the requirement for the creditor to take corrective action, although no remedial relief for the tester is required under paragraph 15(c)(3).
15(c)(2) Determining the scope of appropriate corrective action.
1. Whether a creditor has taken or is taking corrective action that is appropriate will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Generally, the scope of the corrective action that is needed to preserve the privilege is governed by the scope of the self-test. For example, a creditor that self-tests mortgage loans and discovers evidence of discrimination may focus its corrective actions on mortgage loans, and is not required to expand its testing to other types of loans.
2. In identifying the policies or practices that are a likely cause of the violation, a creditor might identify inadequate or improper lending policies, failure to implement established policies, employee conduct, or other causes. The extent and scope of a likely violation may be assessed by determining which areas of operations are likely to be affected by those policies and practices, for example, by determining the types of loans and stages of the application process involved and the branches or offices where the violations may have occurred.
3. Depending on the method and scope of the self-test and the results of the test, appropriate corrective action may include one or more of the following:
i. If the self-test identifies individuals whose applications were inappropriately processed, offering to extend credit if the application was improperly denied and compensating such persons for out-of-pocket costs and other compensatory damages;
ii. Correcting institutional policies or procedures that may have contributed to the likely violation, and adopting new policies as appropriate;
iii. Identifying and then training and/or disciplining the employees involved;
iv. Developing outreach programs, marketing strategies, or loan products to serve more effectively segments of the lender's markets that may have been affected by the likely discrimination; and
v. Improving audit and oversight systems to avoid a recurrence of the likely violations.
15(c)(3) Types of relief.
Paragraph 15(c)(3)(ii).
1. The use of pre-application testers to identify policies and practices that illegally discriminate does not require creditors to review existing loan files for the purpose of identifying and compensating applicants who might have been adversely affected.
2. If a self-test identifies a specific applicant who was discriminated against on a prohibited basis, to qualify for the privilege in this section the creditor must provide appropriate remedial relief to that applicant; the creditor is not required to identify other applicants who might also have been adversely affected.
Paragraph 15(c)(3)(iii).
1. A creditor is not required to provide remedial relief to an applicant that would not
be available by law. An applicant might also be ineligible for certain types of relief due to changed circumstances. For example, a creditor is not required to offer credit to a denied applicant if the applicant no longer qualifies for the credit due to a change in financial circumstances, although some other type of relief might be appropriate.
15(d)(1) Scope of privilege.
1. The privilege applies with respect to any examination, investigation or proceeding by Federal, State, or local government agencies relating to compliance with the Act or this part. Accordingly, in a case brought under the ECOA, the privilege established under this section preempts any inconsistent laws or court rules to the extent they might require disclosure of privileged self-testing data. The privilege does not apply in other cases (such as in litigation filed solely under a State's fair lending statute). In such cases, if a court orders a creditor to disclose self-test results, the disclosure is not a voluntary disclosure or waiver of the privilege for purposes of paragraph 15(d)(2); a creditor may protect the information by seeking a protective order to limit availability and use of the self-testing data and prevent dissemination beyond what is necessary in that case. Paragraph 15(d)(1) precludes a party who has obtained privileged information from using it in a case brought under the ECOA, provided the creditor has not lost the privilege through voluntary disclosure under paragraph 15(d)(2).
15(d)(2) Loss of privilege.
Paragraph 15(d)(2)(i).
1. A creditor's corrective action, by itself, is not considered a voluntary disclosure of the self-test report or results. For example, a creditor does not disclose the results of a self-test merely by offering to extend credit to a denied applicant or by inviting the applicant to reapply for credit. Voluntary disclosure could occur under this paragraph, however, if the creditor disclosed the self-test results in connection with a new offer of credit.
2. The disclosure of self-testing results to an independent contractor acting as an auditor or consultant for the creditor on compliance matters does not result in loss of the privilege.
Paragraph 15(d)(2)(ii).
1. The privilege is lost if the creditor discloses privileged information, such as the results of the self-test. The privilege is not lost if the creditor merely reveals or refers to the existence of the self-test.
Paragraph 15(d)(2)(iii).
1. A creditor's claim of privilege may be challenged in a court or administrative law proceeding with appropriate jurisdiction. In resolving the issue, the presiding officer may require the creditor to produce privileged information about the self-test.
Paragraph 15(d)(3) Limited use of privileged information.
1. A creditor may be required to produce privileged documents for the purpose of determining a penalty or remedy after a violation of the ECOA or Regulation B has been formally adjudicated or admitted. A creditor's compliance with such a requirement does not evidence the creditor's intent to forfeit the privilege.

# Section 1002.16—Enforcement, Penalties, and Liabilities
16(c) Failure of compliance.
1.
Inadvertent errors.
Inadvertent errors include, but are not limited to, clerical mistake, calculation error, computer malfunction, and printing error. An error of legal judgment is not an inadvertent error under the regulation.
2.
Correction of error.
For inadvertent errors that occur under §§ 1002.12 and 1002.13, this section requires that they be corrected prospectively.

# Section 1002.102—Definitions

# 102(b) Applicant
1.
General.
In no way are the limitations to the term applicant in § 1002.102(b) of subpart B intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, change, or interfere with the scope of the term applicant in § 1002.2(e) as applicable to subpart A.

# 102(l) LGBTQI+-Owned Business
1.
General.
In order to be an LGBTQI+-owned business for purposes of subpart B of this part, a business must satisfy both prongs of the definition of LGBTQI+-owned business. First, one or more LGBTQI+ individuals must own or control more than 50 percent of the business. However, it is not necessary that one or more LGBTQI+ individuals both own and control more than 50 percent of the business. For example, a business that is owned entirely by one or more LGBTQI+ individuals but is not controlled by any one or more such individuals satisfies the first prong of the definition. Similarly, a business that is controlled by an LGBTQI+ individual satisfies this first prong of the definition, even if none of the individuals with ownership in the business are LGBTQI+ individuals. If a business does not satisfy this first prong of the definition, it is not an LGBTQI+-owned business. Second, 50 percent or more of the net profits or losses must accrue to one or more LGBTQI+ individuals. If a business does not satisfy this second prong of the definition, it is not an LGBTQI+-owned business, regardless of whether it satisfies the first prong of the definition.
2.
Purpose of definition.
The definition of LGBTQI+-owned business is used only when an applicant determines if it is an LGBTQI+-
owned business for purposes of § 1002.107(a)(18). A financial institution shall provide an applicant with the definition of LGBTQI+-owned business when asking the applicant to provide its LGBTQI+-owned business status pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18). A financial institution satisfies this requirement if it provides the definition as set forth in the sample data collection form in appendix E. The financial institution must provide additional clarification by referencing the definition of LGBTQI+ individual as set forth in § 1002.102(k) if asked by the applicant. The financial institution is neither permitted nor required to make its own determination regarding the applicant's LGBTQI+-owned business status.
3.
Further clarifications of terms used in the definition of LGBTQI+-owned business.
In order to assist an applicant when determining whether it is an LGBTQI+-owned business, a financial institution may provide the applicant with the definitions of ownership, control, and accrual of net profits or losses and related concepts set forth in comments 102(
l
)-4 through -6. A financial institution may assist an applicant when the applicant is determining its LGBTQI+-owned business status but is not required to do so. For purposes of reporting an applicant's status, a financial institution relies on the applicant's determinations of its ownership, control, and accrual of net profits and losses.
4.
Ownership.
For purposes of determining if a business is an LGBTQI+-owned business, an individual owns a business if that individual directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has an equity interest in the business. Examples of ownership include being the sole proprietor of a sole proprietorship, directly or indirectly owning or holding the stock of a corporation or company, directly or indirectly having a partnership interest in a business, or directly or indirectly having a membership interest in a limited liability company. Indirect as well as direct ownership are used when determining ownership for purposes of §§ 1002.102(
l
) and 1002.107(a)(18). Thus, where applicable, ownership must be traced through corporate or other indirect ownership structures. For example, assume that the applicant is company A. If company B owns 60 percent of applicant company A and an individual owns 100 percent of company B, the individual owns 60 percent of applicant company A. Similarly, if an individual directly owns 20 percent of applicant company A and is an equal partner in partnership B that owns the remaining 80 percent of applicant company A, the individual owns 60 percent of applicant company A (
i.e.,
20 percent due through direct ownership and 40 percent indirectly through partnership B). A trustee is considered the owner of the trust. Thus, if a trust owns a business and the trust has two co-trustees, each co-trustee owns 50 percent of the business.
5.
Control.
An individual controls a business if that individual has significant responsibility to manage or direct the business. An individual controls a business if the individual is an executive officer or senior manager (
e.g.,
a chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, managing member, general partner, president, vice president, or treasurer) or regularly performs similar functions. Additionally, a business may be controlled by two or more LGBTQI+ individuals if those individuals collectively control the business, such as constituting a majority of the board of directors or a majority of the partners of a partnership.
6.
Accrual of net profits or losses.
A business's net profits and losses accrue to an individual if that individual receives the net profits or losses, is legally entitled or required to receive the net profits or losses, or is legally entitled or required to recognize the net profits or losses for tax purposes.

# 102(m) Minority-Owned Business
1.
General.
In order to be a minority-owned business for purposes of subpart B of this part, a business must satisfy both prongs of the definition of minority-owned business. First, one or more American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Hispanic or Latino individuals must own or control more than 50 percent of the business. However, it is not necessary that one or more American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Hispanic or Latino individuals both own and control more than 50 percent of the business. For example, a business that is owned entirely, but is not controlled by, individuals belonging to one of these groups satisfies the first prong of the definition. Similarly, a business that is controlled by an American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Hispanic or Latino individual satisfies this first prong of the definition, even if none of the individuals with ownership in the business are American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Hispanic or Latino. If a business does not satisfy this first prong of the definition, it is not a minority-owned business. Second, 50 percent or more of the net profits or losses must accrue to one or more individuals belonging to these groups. If a business does not satisfy this second prong of the definition, it is not a minority-owned business, regardless of whether it satisfies the first prong of the definition.
2.
Purpose of definition.
The definition of minority-owned business is used only when
an applicant determines if it is a minority-owned business for purposes of § 1002.107(a)(18). A financial institution shall provide an applicant with the definition of minority-owned business when asking the applicant to provide its minority-owned business status pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18), but the financial institution is neither permitted nor required to make its own determination regarding the applicant's minority-owned business status.
3.
Further clarifications of terms used in the definition of minority-owned business.
In order to assist an applicant when determining whether it is a minority-owned business, a financial institution may provide the applicant with the definitions of ownership, control, and accrual of net profits or losses and related concepts set forth in comments 102(m)-4 through -6. A financial institution may assist an applicant when the applicant is determining its minority-owned business status but is not required to do so. For purposes of reporting an applicant's status, a financial institution relies on the applicant's determinations of its ownership, control, and accrual of net profits and losses.
4.
Ownership.
For purposes of determining if a business is a minority-owned business, an individual owns a business if that individual directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has an equity interest in the business. Examples of ownership include being the sole proprietor of a sole proprietorship, directly or indirectly owning or holding the stock of a corporation or company, directly or indirectly having a partnership interest in a business, or directly or indirectly having a membership interest in a limited liability company. Indirect as well as direct ownership are used when determining ownership for purposes of §§ 1002.102(m) and 1002.107(a)(18). Thus, where applicable, ownership must be traced through corporate or other indirect ownership structures. For example, assume that the applicant is company A. If company B owns 60 percent of applicant company A and an individual owns 100 percent of company B, the individual owns 60 percent of applicant company A. Similarly, if an individual directly owns 20 percent of applicant company A and is an equal partner in partnership B that owns the remaining 80 percent of applicant company A, the individual owns 60 percent of applicant company A (
i.e.,
20 percent due through direct ownership and 40 percent indirectly through partnership B). A trustee is considered the owner of the trust. Thus, if a trust owns a business and the trust has two co-trustees, each co-trustee owns 50 percent of the business.
5.
Control.
An individual controls a business if that individual has significant responsibility to manage or direct the business. An individual controls a business if the individual is an executive officer or senior manager (
e.g.,
a chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, managing member, general partner, president, vice president, or treasurer) or regularly performs similar functions. Additionally, a business may be controlled by two or more American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Hispanic or Latino individuals if those individuals collectively control the business, such as constituting a majority of the board of directors or a majority of the partners of a partnership.
6.
Accrual of net profits or losses.
A business's net profits and losses accrue to an individual if that individual receives the net profits or losses, is legally entitled or required to receive the net profits or losses, or is legally entitled or required to recognize the net profits or losses for tax purposes.
7.
Multi-racial and multi-ethnic individuals.
For purposes of subpart B of this part, an individual who is multi-racial or multi-ethnic constitutes an individual for whom the definition of minority-owned business may apply, depending on whether the individual meets the other requirements of the definition. For example, an individual who is both Asian and White is an individual for whom the definition of minority-owned business shall apply if the individual meets the other requirements of the definition related to ownership or control and accrual of profits or losses.
8.
Relationship to disaggregated subcategories used to determine ethnicity and race of principal owners.
The ethnicity and race categories used in this section are aggregate ethnicity (Hispanic or Latino) and race (American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander) categories. Those ethnicity and race categories are the same aggregate categories used (along with Not Hispanic or Latino for ethnicity, and White for race) to collect an applicant's principal owners' ethnicity and race pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(19).

# 102(o) Principal Owner
1.
Individual.
Only an individual can be a principal owner of a business for purposes of subpart B of this part. Entities, such as trusts, partnerships, limited liability companies, and corporations, are not principal owners for this purpose. Additionally, an individual must directly own an equity share of 25 percent or more in the business in order to be a principal owner. Unlike the determination of ownership for purposes of collecting and reporting minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, and LGBTQI+-owned business status, indirect ownership is not considered when determining if someone is a principal owner for
purposes of collecting and reporting principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex or the number of principal owners. Thus, when determining who is a principal owner, ownership is not traced through multiple corporate structures to determine if an individual owns 25 percent or more of the equity interests. For example, if individual A directly owns 20 percent of a business, individual B directly owns 20 percent, and partnership C owns 60 percent, the business does not have any owners who satisfy the definition of principal owner set forth in § 1002.102(o), even if individual A and individual B are the only partners in the partnership C. Similarly, if individual A directly owns 30 percent of a business, individual B directly owns 20 percent, and trust D owns 50 percent, individual A is the only principal owner as defined in § 1002.102(o), even if individual B is the sole trustee of trust D.
2.
Trustee.
Although a trust is not considered a principal owner of a business for the purposes of subpart B, if the applicant for a covered credit transaction is a trust, a trustee is considered the owner of the trust. Thus, if a trust is an applicant for a covered credit transaction and the trust has two co-trustees, each co-trustee is considered to own 50 percent of the business and would each be a principal owner as defined in § 1002.102(o). In contrast, if the trust has five co-trustees, each co-trustee is considered to own 20 percent of the business and would not meet the definition of principal owner under § 1002.102(o).
3.
Purpose of definition.
A financial institution shall provide an applicant with the definition of principal owner when asking the applicant to provide the number of its principal owners pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(20) and the ethnicity, race, and sex of its principal owners pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(19). See comments 107(a)(19)-2 and 107(a)(20)-1.

# 102(s) Women-Owned Business
1.
General.
In order to be a women-owned business for purposes of subpart B of this part, a business must satisfy both prongs of the definition of women-owned business. First, one or more women must own or control more than 50 percent of the business. However, it is not necessary that one or more women both own and control more than 50 percent of the business. For example, a business that is owned entirely by women but is not controlled by any women satisfies the first prong of the definition. Similarly, a business that is controlled by a woman satisfies this first prong of the definition, even if none of the individuals with ownership in the business are women. If a business does not satisfy this first prong of the definition, it is not a women-owned business. Second, 50 percent or more of the net profits or losses must accrue to one or more women. If a business does not satisfy this second prong of the definition, it is not a women-owned business, regardless of whether it satisfies the first prong of the definition.
2.
Purpose of definition.
The definition of women-owned business is used only when an applicant determines if it is a women-owned business pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18). A financial institution shall provide an applicant with the definition of women-owned business when asking the applicant to provide its women-owned business status pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18), but the financial institution is neither permitted nor required to make its own determination regarding the applicant's women-owned business status.
3.
Further clarifications of terms used in the definition of women-owned business.
In order to assist an applicant when determining whether it is a women-owned business, a financial institution may provide the applicant with the definitions of ownership, control, and accrual of net profits or losses and related concepts set forth in comments 102(s)-4 through -6. A financial institution may assist an applicant when the applicant is determining its women-owned business status but is not required to do so. For purposes of reporting an applicant's status, a financial institution relies on the applicant's determinations of its ownership, control, and accrual of net profits and losses.
4.
Ownership.
For purposes of determining if a business is a women-owned business, an individual owns a business if that individual directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has an equity interest in the business. Examples of ownership include being the sole proprietor of a sole proprietorship, directly or indirectly owning or holding the stock of a corporation or company, directly or indirectly having a partnership interest in a business, or directly or indirectly having a membership interest in a limited liability company. Indirect as well as direct ownership are used when determining ownership for purposes of §§ 1002.102(s) and 1002.107(a)(18). Thus, where applicable, ownership must be traced through corporate or other indirect ownership structures. For example, assume that the applicant is company A. If company B owns 60 percent of the applicant company A and an individual owns 100 percent of company B, the individual owns 60 percent of the applicant company A. Similarly, if an individual directly owns 20 percent of the applicant company A and is an equal partner in a partnership B that owns the remaining 80 percent of the applicant company A, the individual owns 60 percent of applicant company A (
i.e.,
20 percent due through direct ownership and 40 percent indirectly through partnership B). A trustee is considered the owner of the trust. Thus, if a trust owns a business and the trust has two
co-trustees, each co-trustee owns 50 percent of the business.
5.
Control.
An individual controls a business if that individual has significant responsibility to manage or direct the business. An individual controls a business if the individual is an executive officer or senior manager (
e.g.,
a chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer, managing member, general partner, president, vice president, or treasurer) or regularly performs similar functions. Additionally, a business may be controlled by two or more women if those women collectively control the business, such as constituting a majority of the board of directors or a majority of the partners of a partnership.
6.
Accrual of net profits or losses.
A business's net profits and losses accrue to an individual if that individual receives the net profits or losses, is legally entitled or required to receive the net profits or losses, or is legally entitled or required to recognize the net profits or losses for tax purposes.

# Section 1002.103—Covered Applications

# 103(a) Covered Application
1.
General.
Subject to the requirements of subpart B of this part, a financial institution has latitude to establish its own application procedures, including designating the type and amount of information it will require from applicants.
2.
Procedures used.
The term “procedures” refers to the actual practices followed by a financial institution as well as its stated application procedures. For example, if a financial institution's stated policy is to require all applications to be in writing on the financial institution's application form, but the financial institution also makes credit decisions based on oral requests, the financial institution's procedures are to accept both oral and written applications.
3.
Consistency with subpart A.
Bureau interpretations that appear in this supplement I in connection with §§ 1002.2(f) and 1002.9 are generally applicable to the definition of a covered application in § 1002.103. However, the definition of a covered application in § 1002.103 does not include inquiries and prequalification requests. The definition of a covered application also does not include reevaluation, extension, or renewal requests on an existing business credit account, unless the request seeks additional credit amounts. See § 1002.103(b).
4.
Solicitations and firm offers of credit.
For purposes of subpart B of this part, the term covered application does not include solicitations, firm offers of credit, or other evaluations initiated by the financial institution because in these situations the business has not made a request for credit. For example, if a financial institution sends a firm offer of credit to a business for a $10,000 line of credit, and the business does not respond, it is not a covered application because the business never made a request for credit. However, using the same example, if the business seeks to obtain the credit offered, assuming the requirements of a covered application are otherwise met, the business's request constitutes a covered application for purposes of subpart B of this part. See also comment 103(b)-4.
5.
Requests for multiple covered credit transactions at one time.
Assuming the requirements of a covered application are met, if an applicant makes a request for two or more covered credit transactions at the same time, the financial institution reports each request as a separate covered application. For example, if an applicant is seeking both a term loan and a line of credit and requests them both on the same application form, the financial institution reports the requests as two separate covered applications, one for a term loan and another for a line of credit. See § 1002.107(d) for the requirements for reusing data so that a financial institution need only ask once for certain data required under § 1002.107(a). If, on the other hand, the applicant is only requesting a single covered credit transaction, but has not decided on which particular product, the financial institution reports the request as a single covered application. For example, if the applicant indicates interest in either a term loan or a line of credit, but not both, the financial institution reports the request as a single covered application. See comment 107(a)(5)-1 for instructions on reporting credit product in this situation.
6.
Initial request for a single covered credit transaction that would result in the origination of multiple covered credit transactions.
Assuming the requirements of a covered application are met, if an applicant initially makes a request for one covered credit transaction, but over the course of the application process requests multiple covered credit transactions, each covered credit transaction must be reported as a separate covered application. See § 1002.107(d) for the requirements for reusing data so that a financial institution need only ask once for certain data required under § 1002.107(a).
7.
Requests for multiple lines of credit at one time.
Assuming the requirements of a covered application are met, if an applicant requests multiple lines of credit on a single credit account, it is reported as one or more covered applications based on the procedures used by the financial institution for the type of credit account. For example, if a financial institution treats a request for multiple lines of credit at one time as sub-components of a single account, the financial institution reports the request as a single covered application. If, on the other hand, the financial institution treats each line of credit as a separate account, then the financial institution
reports each request for a line of credit as a separate covered application, as set forth in comment 103(a)-5.
8.
Duplicate applications.
If a financial institution receives two or more duplicate covered applications (
i.e.,
from the same applicant, for the same credit product, for the same amount, at or around the same time), the financial institution may treat the request as a single covered application for purposes of subpart B, so long as for purposes of determining whether to extend credit, it would also treat one or more of the applications as a duplicate under its procedures.
9.
Changes in whether there is a covered credit transaction.
In certain circumstances, an applicant may change the type of product requested during the course of the application process. Assuming other requirements of a covered application are met, if an applicant initially requests a product that is not a covered credit transaction, but prior to final action taken decides to seek instead a product that is a covered credit transaction, the application is a covered application and must be reported pursuant to § 1002.109. In this circumstance, the financial institution shall endeavor to compile, maintain, and report the data required under § 1002.107(a) in a manner that is reasonable under the circumstances. If, on the other hand, an applicant initially requests a product that is a covered credit transaction, but prior to final action taken decides instead to seek a product that is not a covered credit transaction, the application is not a covered application and thus is not reported. See also § 1002.112(c)(4), which provides a safe harbor for incorrect collection of certain data if, at the time of collection, the financial institution had a reasonable basis for believing that the application was a covered application. Assuming other requirements of a covered application are met, if an applicant initially requests a product that is a covered credit transaction, the financial institution counteroffers with a product that is not a covered credit transaction, and the applicant declines to proceed or fails to respond, the application is reported as a covered application. For example, if an applicant initially applies for a term loan, but then, after consultation with the financial institution, decides that a lease would better meet its needs and decides to proceed with that product, the application is not a covered application and thus is not reported. However, if an applicant initially applies for a term loan, the financial institution offers to consider the applicant only for a lease, and the applicant refuses, the transaction is a covered application that must be reported.
10.
Multiple unaffiliated co-applicants.
If a covered financial institution receives a covered application from multiple businesses that are not affiliates, as defined by § 1002.102(a), it shall compile, maintain, and report data pursuant to §§ 1002.107 through 1002.109 for only a single applicant that is a small business, as defined in § 1002.106(b). A covered financial institution shall establish consistent procedures for designating a single small business for purposes of collecting and reporting data under subpart B in situations where there is more than one small business co-applicant, such as reporting on the first small business listed on an application form. For example, if three businesses jointly apply as co-applicants for a term loan to purchase a piece of equipment, but only one of the businesses is a small business, as defined in § 1002.106(b), the financial institution reports on the single small business. If, however, two of the businesses are small businesses, as defined in § 1002.106(b), the financial institution must have a procedure for designating which small business among multiple small business co-applicants it will report information on, such as consistently reporting on the first small business listed on an application form. See also § 1002.5(a)(4)(x), which permits a creditor to collect certain protected information about co-applicants under certain circumstances.
11.
Refinancings and evaluation, extension, or renewal requests that request additional credit amounts.
As discussed in comments 103(b)-2 and -3, assuming other requirements of a covered application are met, an applicant's request to refinance and an applicant's request for additional credit amounts on an existing account both constitute covered applications.

# 103(b) Circumstances That Are Not Covered Applications
1.
In general.
The circumstances set forth in § 1002.103(b) are not covered applications for purposes of subpart B of this part, even if considered applications under subpart A of this part. However, in no way are the exclusions in § 1002.103(b) intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, change, or interfere with the scope of the term application in § 1002.2(f) as applicable to subpart A.
2.
Reevaluation, extension, or renewal requests that do not request additional credit amounts.
An applicant's request to change one or more terms of an existing account does not constitute a covered application, unless the applicant is requesting additional credit amounts on the account. For example, an applicant's request to extend the duration on a line of credit or to remove a guarantor would not be a covered application. However, assuming other requirements of a covered application are met, an applicant's request to refinance would be reportable. A refinancing occurs when an existing obligation is satisfied and replaced by a new obligation undertaken by the same borrower.
3.
Reevaluation, extension, or renewal requests that request additional credit amounts.
A Assuming other requirements of a covered
application are met, an applicant's request for additional credit amounts on an existing account constitutes a covered application. For example, an applicant's request for a line increase on an existing line of credit, made in accordance with a financial institution's procedures for the type of credit requested, would be a covered application. As discussed in comment 107(a)(7)-4, when reporting a covered application that seeks additional credit amounts on an existing account, the financial institution need only report the additional credit amount sought, and not the entire credit amount. For example, if an applicant currently has a line of credit account for $100,000, and seeks to increase the line to $150,000, the financial institution reports the amount applied for as $50,000.
4.
Reviews or evaluations initiated by the financial institution.
For purposes of subpart B of this part, the term covered application does not include evaluations or reviews of existing accounts initiated by the financial institution because the business has not made a request for credit. For example, if a financial institution conducts periodic reviews of its existing lines of credit and decides to increase the business's line by $10,000, it is not a covered application because the business never made a request for the additional credit amounts. However, if such an evaluation or review of an existing account by a financial institution results in the financial institution inviting the business to apply for additional credit amounts on an existing account and the business does so, the business's request constitutes a covered application for purposes of subpart B of this part, assuming other requirements of a covered application are met. Similarly, as noted in comment 103(a)-4, the term covered application also does not include solicitations and firm offers of credit.
5.
Inquiries and prequalification requests.
An inquiry is a request by a prospective applicant for information about credit terms offered by the financial institution. A prequalification request is a request by a prospective applicant for a preliminary determination on whether the prospective applicant would likely qualify for credit under a financial institution's standards or for a determination on the amount of credit for which the prospective applicant would likely qualify. Inquiries and prequalification requests are not covered applications under subpart B of this part, even though in certain circumstances inquiries and prequalification requests may constitute applications under subpart A. For example, while an inquiry or prequalification request may become an “application” under subpart A if the creditor evaluates information about the business, decides to decline the request, and communicates this to the business, such inquiries or prequalifications would not be “covered applications” under subpart B of this part. Whether a particular request is a covered application, or whether instead it is an inquiry or prequalification request that is not reportable under subpart B, may turn, for instance, on how a financial institution structures and processes such requests: does the financial institution require or encourage a preliminary review in order for a business to be considered for a covered credit transaction, or does the business voluntarily seek preliminary feedback as a tool to explore its options before it decides whether to apply for credit with the financial institution? The name used by the financial institution for such a request is not determinative. For example, under subpart B, a review is a reportable covered application if the financial institution requires the business, before it may apply for credit, to pass through a mandatory screening process that considers particular information about the business and denies or turns away the business if it is ineligible or unlikely to qualify for credit. In contrast, a business that requests a financial institution to identify credit products for which the business might qualify based on limited or self-described characteristics, and without any commitment from the financial institution to extend credit, may not have submitted a covered application for purposes of subpart B.

# Section 1002.104—Covered Credit Transactions and Excluded Transactions

# 104(a) Covered Credit Transaction
1.
General.
The term “covered credit transaction” includes all business credit (including loans, lines of credit, credit cards, and merchant cash advances) unless otherwise excluded under § 1002.104(b).

# 104(b) Excluded Transactions
1.
Factoring.
The term “covered credit transaction” does not cover factoring as described herein. For the purpose of this subpart, factoring is an accounts receivable purchase transaction between businesses that includes an agreement to purchase, transfer, or sell a legally enforceable claim for payment for goods that the recipient has supplied or services that the recipient has rendered but for which payment in full has not yet been made. The name used by the financial institution for a product is not determinative of whether or not it is a “covered credit transaction.” This description of factoring is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or interfere with any existing interpretations, orders, agreements, ordinances, rules, or regulations adopted or issued pursuant to comment 9(a)(3)-3. A financial institution shall report an extension of business credit incident to a factoring arrangement that is otherwise a covered credit
transaction as “Other sales-based financing transaction” under § 1002.107(a)(5).
2.
Leases.
The term “covered credit transaction” does not cover leases as described herein. A lease, for the purpose of this subpart, is a transfer from one business to another of the right to possession and use of goods for a term, and for primarily business or commercial (including agricultural) purposes, in return for consideration. A lease does not include a sale, including a sale on approval or a sale or return, or a transaction resulting in the retention or creation of a security interest. The name used by the financial institution for a product is not determinative of whether or not it is a “covered credit transaction.”
3.
Consumer-designated credit.
The term “covered credit transaction” does not include consumer-designated credit that is used for business or agricultural purposes. A transaction qualifies as consumer-designated credit if the financial institution offers or extends the credit primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. For example, an open-end credit account used for both personal and business/agricultural purposes is not business credit for the purpose of subpart B of this part unless the financial institution designated or intended for the primary purpose of the account to be business/agricultural-related.
4.
Credit transaction purchases, purchases of an interest in a pool of credit transactions, and purchases of a partial interest in a credit transaction.
The term “covered credit transaction” does not cover the purchase of an originated credit transaction, the purchase of an interest in a pool of credit transactions, or the purchase of a partial interest in a credit transaction such as through a loan participation agreement. Such purchases do not, in themselves, constitute an application for credit. See also comment 109(a)(3)-2.i.

# 104(b)(1) Trade Credit
1.
General.
Trade credit, as defined in § 1002.104(b)(1), is excluded from the definition of a covered credit transaction. An example of trade credit involves a supplier that finances the sale of equipment, supplies, or inventory. However, an extension of business credit by a financial institution other than the supplier for the financing of such items is not trade credit. Also, credit extended by a business providing goods or services to another business is not trade credit for the purposes of this subpart where the supplying business intends to sell or transfer its rights as a creditor to a third party.
2.
Trade credit under subpart A.
The definition of trade credit under comment 9(a)(3)-2 applies to relevant provisions under subpart A, and § 1002.104(b)(1) is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or interfere with any existing interpretations, orders, agreements, ordinances, rules, or regulations adopted or issued pursuant to comment 9(a)(3)-2.

# Section 1002.105—Covered Financial Institutions and Exempt Institutions

# 105(a) Financial Institution
1.
Examples.
Section 1002.105(a) defines a financial institution as any partnership, company, corporation, association (incorporated or unincorporated), trust, estate, cooperative organization, or other entity that engages in any financial activity. This definition includes, but is not limited to, banks, savings associations, credit unions, online lenders, platform lenders, community development financial institutions, Farm Credit System lenders, lenders involved in equipment and vehicle financing (captive financing companies and independent financing companies), commercial finance companies, organizations exempt from taxation pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 501(c), and governments or governmental subdivisions or agencies.
2.
Motor vehicle dealers.
Pursuant to § 1002.101(a), subpart B of this part excludes from coverage persons defined by section 1029 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376, 2004 (2010).

# 105(b) Covered Financial Institution
1.
Preceding calendar year.
The definition of covered financial institution refers to preceding calendar years. For example, in 2029, the two preceding calendar years are 2027 and 2028. Accordingly, in 2029, Financial Institution A does not meet the loan-volume threshold in § 1002.105(b) if did not originate at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses both during 2027 and during 2028.
2.
Origination threshold.
A financial institution qualifies as a covered financial institution based on total covered credit transactions originated for small businesses, rather than covered applications received from small businesses. For example, if in both 2026 and 2027, Financial Institution B received 105 covered applications from small businesses and originated 95 covered credit transactions for small businesses, then for 2028, Financial Institution B is not a covered financial institution.
3.
Counting originations when multiple financial institutions are involved in originating a covered credit transaction.
For the purpose of counting originations to determine whether a financial institution is a covered financial institution under § 1002.105(b), in a situation where multiple financial institutions are involved in originating a single covered credit transaction, only the last financial institution with authority to set the material
terms of the covered credit transaction is required to count the origination.
4.
Counting originations after adjustments to the gross annual revenue threshold due to inflation.
Pursuant to § 1002.106(b)(2), every five years, the gross annual revenue threshold used to define a small business in § 1002.106(b)(1) shall be adjusted, if necessary, to account for inflation. The first time such an adjustment could occur is in 2030, with an effective date of January 1, 2031. A financial institution seeking to determine whether it is a covered financial institution applies the gross annual revenue threshold that is in effect for each year it is evaluating. For example, a financial institution seeking to determine whether it is a covered financial institution in 2032 counts its originations of covered credit transactions for small businesses in calendar years 2030 and 2031. The financial institution applies the initial $5 million threshold to evaluate whether its originations were to small businesses in 2030. In this example, if the small business threshold were increased to $5.5 million effective January 1, 2031, the financial institution applies the $5.5 million threshold to count its originations for small businesses in 2031.
5.
Reevaluation, extension, or renewal requests, as well as credit line increases and other requests for additional credit amounts.
While requests for additional credit amounts on an existing account can constitute a “covered application” pursuant to § 1002.103(b)(1), such requests are not counted as originations for the purpose of determining whether a financial institution is a covered financial institution pursuant to § 1002.105(b). In addition, transactions that extend, renew, or otherwise amend a transaction are not counted as originations. For example, if a financial institution originates 50 term loans and 30 lines of credit for small businesses in each of the preceding two calendar years, along with 25 line increases for small businesses in each of those years, the financial institution is not a covered financial institution because it has not originated at least 100 covered credit transactions in each of the two preceding calendar years.
6.
Annual consideration.
Whether a financial institution is a covered financial institution for a particular year depends on its small business lending activity in the preceding two calendar years. Therefore, whether a financial institution is a covered financial institution is an annual consideration for each year that data may be compiled and maintained for purposes of subpart B of this part. A financial institution may be a covered financial institution for a given year of data collection (and the obligations arising from qualifying as a covered financial institution shall continue into subsequent years, pursuant to §§ 1002.110 and 1002.111), but the same financial institution may not be a covered financial institution for the following year of data collection. For example, Financial Institution C originated 105 covered transactions for small businesses in both 2027 and 2028. In 2029, Financial Institution C is a covered financial institution and therefore is obligated to compile and maintain applicable 2029 small business lending data under § 1002.107(a). During 2029, Financial Institution C originates 95 covered transactions for small businesses. In 2030, Financial Institution C is not a covered financial institution with respect to 2030 small business lending data, and is not obligated to compile and maintain 2030 data under § 1002.107(a) (although Financial Institution C may volunteer to collect and maintain 2030 data pursuant to § 1002.5(a)(4)(vii) and as explained in comment 105(b)-10). Pursuant to § 1002.109(a), Financial Institution C shall submit its small business lending application register for 2029 data in the format prescribed by the Bureau by June 1, 2030 because Financial Institution C is a covered financial institution with respect to 2029 data, and the data submission deadline of June 1, 2030 applies to 2029 data.
7.
Merger or acquisition—coverage of surviving or newly formed institution.
After a merger or acquisition, the surviving or newly formed financial institution is a covered financial institution under § 1002.105(b) if it, considering the combined lending activity of the surviving or newly formed institution and the merged or acquired financial institutions (or acquired branches or locations), satisfies the criteria included in § 1002.105(b). For example, Financial Institutions A and B merge. The surviving or newly formed financial institution meets the threshold in § 1002.105(b) if the combined previous components of the surviving or newly formed financial institution (A plus B) would have originated at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses for each of the two preceding calendar years. Similarly, if the combined previous components and the surviving or newly formed financial institution would have reported at least 100 covered transactions for small businesses for the year previous to the merger as well as 100 covered transactions for small businesses for the year of the merger, the threshold described in § 1002.105(b) would be met and the surviving or newly formed financial institution would be a covered institution under § 1002.105(b) for the year following the merger. Comment 105(b)-8 discusses a financial institution's responsibilities with respect to compiling and maintaining (and subsequently reporting) data during the calendar year of a merger.
8.
Merger or acquisition—coverage specific to the calendar year of the merger or acquisition.
The scenarios described below illustrate a financial institution's responsibilities specifically for data from the calendar year of a merger or acquisition. For purposes of these
illustrations, an “institution that is not covered” means either an institution that is not a financial institution, as defined in § 1002.105(a), or a financial institution that is not a covered financial institution, as defined in § 1002.105(b).
i. Two institutions that are not covered financial institutions merge. The surviving or newly formed institution meets all of the requirements necessary to be a covered financial institution. No data are required to be compiled, maintained, or reported for the calendar year of the merger (even though the merger creates an institution that meets all of the requirements necessary to be a covered financial institution).
ii. A covered financial institution and an institution that is not covered merge. The covered financial institution is the surviving institution, or a new covered financial institution is formed. For the calendar year of the merger, data are required to be compiled, maintained, and reported for covered applications from the covered financial institution and is optional for covered applications from the financial institution that was previously not covered.
iii. A covered financial institution and an institution that is not covered merge. The institution that is not covered is the surviving institution and remains not covered after the merger, or a new institution that is not covered is formed. For the calendar year of the merger, data are required to be compiled and maintained (and subsequently reported) for covered applications from the previously covered financial institution that took place prior to the merger. After the merger date, compiling, maintaining, and reporting data is optional for applications from the institution that was previously covered for the remainder of the calendar year of the merger.
iv. Two covered financial institutions merge. The surviving or newly formed financial institution is a covered financial institution. Data are required to be compiled and maintained (and subsequently reported) for the entire calendar year of the merger. The surviving or newly formed financial institution files either a consolidated submission or separate submissions for that calendar year.
9.
Foreign applicability.
As discussed in comment 1(a)-2, Regulation B (including subpart B) generally does not apply to lending activities that occur outside the United States.
10.
Voluntary collection and reporting.
Section 1002.5(a)(4)(vii) through (x) permits a creditor that is not a covered financial institution under § 1002.105(b) to voluntarily collect and report information regarding covered applications from small businesses in certain circumstances. If a creditor is voluntarily collecting information for covered applications regarding whether the applicant is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, and/or an LGBTQI+-owned business under § 1002.107(a)(18), and regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners under § 1002.107(a)(19), it shall do so in compliance with §§ 1002.107, 1002.108, 1002.111, 1002.112 as though it were a covered financial institution. If a creditor is reporting those covered applications from small businesses to the Bureau, it shall do so in compliance with §§ 1002.109 and 1002.110 as though it were a covered financial institution.

# Section 1002.106—Business and Small Business

# 106(b) Small Business Definition

# 106(b)(1) Small Business
1.
Change in determination of small business status—business is ultimately not a small business.
If a financial institution initially determines an applicant is a small business as defined in § 1002.106 based on available information and collects data required by § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) but later concludes that the applicant is not a small business, the financial institution does not violate the Act or this regulation if it meets the requirements of § 1002.112(c)(4). The financial institution shall not report the application on its small business lending application register pursuant to § 1002.109.
2.
Change in determination of small business status—business is ultimately a small business.
Consistent with comment 107(a)(14)-1, a financial institution need not independently verify gross annual revenue. If a financial institution initially determines that the applicant is not a small business as defined in § 1002.106(b), but later concludes the applicant is a small business prior to taking final action on the application, the financial institution must report the covered application pursuant to § 1002.109. In this situation, the financial institution shall endeavor to compile, maintain, and report the data required under § 1002.107(a) in a manner that is reasonable under the circumstances. For example, if the applicant initially provides a gross annual revenue of $5.5 million (that is, above the threshold for a small business as initially defined in § 1002.106(b)(1)), but during the course of underwriting the financial institution discovers the applicant's gross annual revenue was in fact $4.75 million (meaning that the applicant is within the definition of a small business under § 1002.106(b)), the financial institution is required to report the covered application pursuant to § 1002.109. In this situation, the financial institution shall take reasonable steps upon discovery to compile, maintain, and report the data necessary under § 1002.107(a) to comply with subpart B of this part for that covered application. Thus, in this example, even if the financial institution's procedure is typically to request applicant-provided data
together with the application form, in this circumstance, the financial institution shall seek to collect the data during the application process necessary to comply with subpart B in a manner that is reasonable under the circumstances.
3.
Applicant's representations regarding gross annual revenue; inclusion of affiliate revenue; updated or verified information.
A financial institution is permitted to rely on an applicant's representations regarding gross annual revenue (which may or may not include any affiliate's revenue) for purposes of determining small business status under § 1002.106(b). However, if the applicant provides updated gross annual revenue information or the financial institution verifies the gross annual revenue information (see comment 107(b)-1), the financial institution must use the updated or verified information in determining small business status.
4.
Multiple unaffiliated co-applicants—size determination.
The financial institution shall not aggregate unaffiliated co-applicants' gross annual revenues for purposes of determining small business status under § 1002.106(b). If a covered financial institution receives a covered application from multiple businesses who are not affiliates, as defined by § 1002.102(a), where at least one business is a small business under § 1002.106(b), the financial institution shall compile, maintain, and report data pursuant to §§ 1002.107 through 1002.109 regarding the covered application for only a single applicant that is a small business. See comment 103(a)-10 for additional details.

# 106(b)(2) Inflation Adjustment
1.
Inflation adjustment methodology.
The small business gross annual revenue threshold set forth in § 1002.106(b)(1) will be adjusted upward or downward to reflect changes, if any, in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (U.S. city average series for all items, not seasonally adjusted), as published by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics (“CPI-U”). The base for computing each adjustment is the January 2025 CPI-U; this base value shall be compared to the CPI-U value in January 2030 and every five years thereafter. For example, after the January 2030 CPI-U is made available, the adjustment is calculated by determining the percentage change in the CPI-U between January 2025 and January 2030, applying this change to the $5 million gross annual revenue threshold, and rounding to the nearest $500,000. If, as a result of this rounding, there is no change in the gross annual revenue threshold, there will be no adjustment. For example, if in January 2030 the adjusted value were $4.9 million (reflecting a $100,000 decrease from January 2025 CPI-U), then the threshold would not adjust because $4.9 million would be rounded up to $5 million. If on the other hand, the adjusted value were $5.7 million, then the threshold would adjust to $5.5 million. Where the adjusted value is a multiple of $250,000 (
e.g.,
$5,250,000), then the threshold adjusts upward (in this example, to $5,500,000).
2.
Substitute for CPI-U.
If publication of the CPI-U ceases, or if the CPI-U otherwise becomes unavailable or is altered in such a way as to be unusable, then the Bureau shall substitute another reliable cost of living indicator from the United States Government for the purpose of calculating adjustments pursuant to § 1002.106(b)(2).

# Section 1002.107—Compilation of Reportable Data

# 107(a) Data Format and Itemization
1.
General.
Section 1002.107(a) describes a covered financial institution's obligation to compile and maintain data regarding the covered applications it receives from small businesses.
i. A covered financial institution reports these data even if the credit originated pursuant to the reported application was subsequently sold by the institution.
ii. A covered financial institution annually reports data for covered applications for which final action was taken in the previous calendar year.
iii. A covered financial institution reports data for a covered application on its small business lending application register for the calendar year during which final action was taken on the application, even if the institution received the application in a previous calendar year.
2.
Free-form text fields.
A covered financial institution may use technology such as autocorrect and predictive text when requesting applicant-provided data under subpart B of this part that the financial institution reports via free-form text fields, provided that such technology does not restrict the applicant's ability to write in its own response instead of using text suggested by the technology.
3.
Filing Instructions Guide.
Additional details and procedures for compiling data pursuant to § 1002.107 are included in the Filing Instructions Guide, which is available at
https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/small-business-lending/filing-instructions-guide/.
4.
Additional data point response options.
The Bureau may add additional response options to the lists of responses contained in the commentary that follows for certain of the data points set forth in § 1002.107(a), via the Filing Instructions Guide. Refer to the Filing Instructions Guide for any updates for each reporting year.

# 107(a)(1) Unique Identifier
1.
Unique within the financial institution.
A financial institution complies with
§ 1002.107(a)(1) by compiling and reporting an alphanumeric application or loan identifier unique within the financial institution to the specific application. The identifier must not exceed 45 characters, and must begin with the financial institution's Legal Entity Identifier (LEI), as defined in comment 109(b)(6)-1. Separate applications for the same applicant must have separate identifiers. The identifier may only include standard numerical and/or upper-case alphabetical characters and cannot include dashes, other special characters, or characters with diacritics. The financial institution may assign the unique identifier at any time prior to reporting the application. Refinancings or applications for refinancing must be assigned a different identifier than the transaction that is being refinanced. A financial institution with multiple branches must ensure that its branches do not use the same identifiers to refer to multiple applications.
2.
Does not include directly identifying information.
The unique identifier must not include any directly identifying information, such as a whole or partial Social Security number or employer identification number, about the applicant or persons (natural or legal) associated with the applicant. See also § 1002.111(c) and related commentary.

# 107(a)(2) Application Date
1.
Consistency.
Section 1002.107(a)(2) requires that, in reporting the date of covered application, a financial institution shall report the date the covered application was received or the date shown on a paper or electronic application form. Although a financial institution need not choose the same approach for its entire small business lending application register, it should generally be consistent in its approach by, for example, establishing procedures for how to report this date within particular scenarios, products, or divisions. If the financial institution chooses to report the date shown on an application form and the institution retains multiple versions of the application form, the institution reports the date shown on the first application form satisfying the definition of covered application pursuant to § 1002.103.
2.
Application received.
For an application submitted directly to the financial institution or its affiliate (as described in § 1002.107(a)(4)), the financial institution shall report the date it received the covered application, as defined under § 1002.103, or the date shown on a paper or electronic application form. For an application initially submitted to a third party, see comment 107(a)(2)-3.
3.
Indirect applications.
For an application that was not submitted directly to the financial institution or its affiliate (as described in § 1002.107(a)(4)), the financial institution shall report the date the application was received by the party that initially received the application, the date the application was received by the financial institution, or the date shown on the application form. Although a financial institution need not choose the same approach for its entire small business lending application register, it should generally be consistent in its approach by, for example, establishing procedures for how to report this date within particular scenarios, products, or divisions.
4.
Safe harbor.
Pursuant to § 1002.112(c)(1), a financial institution that reports on its small business lending application register an application date that is within three business days of the actual application date pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(2) does not violate the Act or subpart B of this part. For purposes of this paragraph, a business day means any day the financial institution is open for business.

# 107(a)(3) Application Method
1.
General.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(3) by reporting the means by which the applicant submitted the application from one of the following options: in-person, telephone, online, or mail. If the financial institution retains multiple versions of the application form, the institution reports the means by which the first application form satisfying the definition of covered application pursuant to § 1002.103 was submitted.
i.
In-person.
A financial institution reports the application method as “in-person” if the applicant submitted the application to the financial institution, or to another party acting on the financial institution's behalf, in person. The in-person application method applies, for example, to applications submitted at a branch office (including applications hand delivered by the applicant), at the applicant's place of business, or via electronic media with a video component).
ii.
Telephone.
A financial institution reports the application method as “telephone” if the applicant submitted the application to the financial institution, or another party acting on the financial institution's behalf, by telephone call or via audio-based electronic media without a video component.
iii.
Online.
A financial institution reports the application method as “online” if the applicant submitted the application to the financial institution, or another party acting on the financial institution's behalf, through a website, mobile application (app), fax transmission, electronic mail, text message, or some other form of text-based electronic communication.
iv.
Mail.
A financial institution reports the application method as “mail” if the applicant submitted the application to the financial institution, or another party acting on the financial institution's behalf, via United States mail, courier or overnight service, or an overnight drop box.

# 107(a)(4) Application Recipient
1.
Agents.
When a financial institution is reporting actions taken by its agent consistent with comment 109(a)(3)-3, the agent is considered the financial institution for the purposes of § 1002.107(a)(4). For example, assume that an applicant submitted an application to Financial Institution B, and Financial Institution B made the credit decision acting as Financial Institution A's agent under State law. Financial Institution A reports the application and indicates that the application was submitted directly to Financial Institution A.

# 107(a)(5) Credit Type
1.
Reporting credit product—in general.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(5)(i) by selecting the credit product applied for or originated, from the list below. If the credit product applied for or originated is not included on this list, the financial institution selects “other,” and reports the credit product via free-form text field. If an applicant requested more than one credit product at the same time, the financial institution reports each credit product requested as a separate application. However, if the applicant only requested a single covered credit transaction, but had not decided on which particular product, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(5)(i) by reporting the credit product originated (if originated), or the credit product denied (if denied), or the credit product of greater interest to the applicant, if readily determinable. If the credit product of greater interest to the applicant is not readily determinable, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(5)(i) by reporting one of the credit products requested as part of the request for a single covered credit transaction, in its discretion. See comment 103(a)-5 for instructions on reporting requests for multiple covered credit transactions at one time.
i. Term loan—unsecured.
ii. Term loan—secured.
iii. Line of credit—unsecured.
iv. Line of credit—secured.
v. Credit card account, not private-label.
vi. Private-label credit card account.
vii. Merchant cash advance.
viii. Other sales-based financing transaction.
ix. Other.
x. Not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.
2.
Credit card account, not private-label.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(5)(i) by reporting the credit product as a “credit card account, not private-label” when the product is a business-purpose open-end credit account that is not private label and that may be accessed from time to time by a card, plate, or other single credit device to obtain credit, except that accounts or lines of credit secured by real property and overdraft lines of credit accessed by debit cards are not credit card accounts. The term credit card account does not include debit card accounts or closed-end credit that may be accessed by a card, plate, or single credit device. The term credit card account does include charge card accounts that are generally paid in full each billing period, as well as hybrid prepaid-credit cards. A financial institution reports multiple credit card account, not private-label applications requested at one time using the guidance in comment 103(a)-7.
3.
Private-label credit card account.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(5)(i) by reporting the credit product as a “private-label credit card account” when the product is a business-purpose open-end private-label credit account that otherwise meets the description of a credit card account in comment 107(a)(5)-2. A private-label credit card account is a credit card account that can only be used to acquire goods or services provided by one business (for example, a specific merchant, retailer, independent dealer, or manufacturer) or a small group of related businesses. A co-branded or other card that can also be used for purchases at unrelated businesses is not a private-label credit card. A financial institution reports multiple private-label credit card account applications requested at one time in the same manner as credit card account, not private-label applications, using the guidance in comment 103(a)-7.
4.
Credit product not provided by the applicant and otherwise undetermined.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution is required to maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes credit product. However, if a financial institution is nonetheless unable to collect or otherwise determine credit product information because the applicant does not indicate what credit product it seeks and the application is denied, withdrawn, or closed for incompleteness before a credit product is identified, the financial institution reports that the credit product is “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.”
5.
Reporting credit product involving counteroffers.
If a financial institution presents a counteroffer for a different credit product than the product the applicant had initially requested, and the applicant does not agree to proceed with the counteroffer, the financial institution reports the application for the original credit product as denied pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(9). If the applicant agrees to proceed with consideration of the financial institution's counteroffer, the financial institution reports the disposition of the application based on the credit product that was offered and does not report the original
credit product applied for. See comment 107(a)(9)-2.
6.
Other sales-based financing transaction.
For an extension of business credit incident to a factoring arrangement that is otherwise a covered credit transaction, a financial institution selects “other sales-based financing transaction” as the credit product. See comment 104(b)-1.
7.
Guarantees.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(5)(ii) by selecting the type or types of guarantees that were obtained for an originated covered credit transaction, or that would have been obtained if the covered credit transaction was originated, from the list below. The financial institution selects, if applicable, up to a maximum of five guarantees for a single application. If the type of guarantee does not appear on the list, the financial institution selects “other” and reports the type of guarantee via free-form text field. If no guarantee is obtained or would have been obtained if the covered credit transaction was originated, the financial institution selects “no guarantee.” If an application is denied, withdrawn, or closed for incompleteness before any guarantee has been identified, the financial institution selects “no guarantee.” The financial institution chooses State government guarantee or local government guarantee, as applicable, based on the entity directly administering the program, not the source of funding.
i. Personal guarantee—owner(s).
ii. Personal guarantee—non-owner(s).
iii. SBA guarantee—7(a) program.
iv. SBA guarantee—504 program.
v. SBA guarantee—other.
vi. USDA guarantee.
vii. FHA insurance.
viii. Bureau of Indian Affairs guarantee.
ix. Other Federal guarantee.
x. State government guarantee.
xi. Local government guarantee.
xii. Other.
xiii. No guarantee.
8.
Loan term.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(5)(iii) by reporting the number of months in the loan term for the covered credit transaction. The loan term is the number of months after which the legal obligation will mature or terminate, measured from the date of origination. For transactions involving real property, the financial institution may instead measure the loan term from the date of the first payment period and disregard the time that elapses, if any, between the settlement of the transaction and the first payment period. For example, if a loan closes on April 12, but the first payment is not due until June 1 and includes the interest accrued in May (but not April), the financial institution may choose not to include the month of April in the loan term. In addition, the financial institution may round the loan term to the nearest full month or may count only full months and ignore partial months, as it so chooses. If a credit product, such as a credit card, does not have a loan term, the financial institution reports that the loan term is “not applicable.” The financial institution also reports that the loan term is “not applicable” if the credit product is reported as “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.” For a credit product that generally has a loan term, the financial institution reports “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined” if the application is denied, withdrawn, or determined to be incomplete before a loan term has been identified. For merchant cash advances and other sales-based financing transactions, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(5)(iii) by reporting the loan term, if any, that the financial institution estimated or specified in processing, underwriting or providing disclosures for the application or transaction. If more than one such loan term is estimated or specified, the financial institution reports the one it considers to be most accurate, in its discretion. For merchant cash advances and other sales-based financing transactions that do not have a loan term, the financial institution reports “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.”

# 107(a)(6) Credit Purpose
1.
General.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(6) by selecting the purpose or purposes of the covered credit transaction applied for or originated from the list below.
i. Purchase, construction/improvement, or refinance of non-owner-occupied real property.
ii. Purchase, construction/improvement, or refinance of owner-occupied real property.
iii. Purchase, refinance, or rehabilitation/repair of motor vehicle(s) (including light and heavy trucks).
iv. Purchase, refinance, or rehabilitation/repair of equipment.
v. Working capital (includes inventory or floor planning).
vi. Business start-up.
vii. Business expansion.
viii. Business acquisition.
ix. Refinance existing debt (other than refinancings listed above).
x. Line increase.
xi. Overdraft.
xii. Other.
xiii. Not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.
xiv. Not applicable.
2.
More than one purpose.
If the applicant indicates or the financial institution is otherwise aware of more than one purpose for the credit applied for or originated, the financial institution reports those purposes, up to a maximum of three, using the list provided, in any order it chooses. For example, if an applicant refinances a commercial
building it owns and uses the funds to purchase a motor vehicle and expand the business it runs in a part of that building, the financial institution reports that the three purposes of the credit are purchase, construction/improvement, or refinance of owner-occupied real property; purchase, refinance, or rehabilitation/repair of motor vehicle(s) (including light and heavy trucks); and business expansion. If an application has more than three purposes, the financial institution reports any three of those purposes. In the example above, if the funds were also used to purchase equipment, the financial institution would select only three of the relevant purposes to report.
3.
“Other” credit purpose.
If a purpose of an application does not appear on the list of purposes provided, the financial institution reports “other” as the credit purpose and reports the credit purpose via free-form text field. If the application has more than one “other” purpose, the financial institution chooses the most significant “other” purpose, in its discretion, and reports that “other” purpose. The financial institution reports a maximum of three credit purposes, including any “other” purpose.
4.
Credit purpose not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes credit purpose. However, if a financial institution is nonetheless unable to collect or determine credit purpose information, the financial institution reports that the credit purpose is “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.”
5.
Not applicable.
If the application is for a credit product that generally has indeterminate or numerous potential purposes, such as a credit card, the financial institution may report credit purpose as “not applicable.”
6.
Collecting credit purpose.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, including credit purpose. The financial institution is permitted, but not required, to present the list of credit purposes provided in comment 107(a)(6)-1 to the applicant. The financial institution is also permitted to ask about purposes not included on the list provided in comment 107(a)(6)-1. If the applicant chooses a purpose or purposes not included on the provided list, the financial institution follows the instructions in comment 107(a)(6)-3 regarding reporting of “other” as the credit purpose. If an applicant chooses a purpose or purposes that are similar to purposes on the list provided, but uses different language, the financial institution reports the purpose or purposes from the list provided.
7.
Owner-occupied real property.
Real property is owner-occupied if any physical portion of the property is used by the owner for any activity, including storage.
8.
Overdraft.
When overdraft is provided as an aspect of the covered credit transaction applied for or originated, the financial institution reports “Overdraft” as a purpose of the credit. The financial institution reports credit type pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(5)(i) as appropriate for the underlying covered credit transaction, such as “Line of credit—unsecured.” Providing occasional overdraft services as part of a deposit account offering would not be reported for the purpose of subpart B.

# 107(a)(7) Amount Applied For
1.
Initial amount requested.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(7) by reporting the initial amount of credit or the initial credit limit requested by the applicant. The financial institution is not required to report credit amounts or limits discussed before an application is made, but must capture the initial amount requested at the application stage. If the applicant requests an amount as a range of numbers, the financial institution reports the midpoint of that range.
2.
No amount requested.
If the applicant does not request a specific amount at the application stage, but the financial institution underwrites the application for a specific amount, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(7) by reporting the amount considered for underwriting as the amount applied for. If the particular type of credit product applied for does not involve a specific amount requested, the financial institution reports that the requirement is “not applicable.”
3.
Firm offers.
When an applicant responds to a “firm offer” that specifies an amount or limit, which may occur in conjunction with a pre-approved credit solicitation, the financial institution reports the amount of the firm offer as the amount applied for, unless the applicant requests a different amount. If the firm offer does not specify an amount or limit and the applicant does not request a specific amount, the amount applied for is the amount underwritten by the financial institution. If the firm offer specifies an amount or limit as a range and the applicant does not request a specific amount, the amount applied for is the amount underwritten by the financial institution.
4.
Additional amounts on an existing account.
When reporting a covered application that seeks additional credit amounts on an existing account, the financial institution reports only the additional credit amount sought, and not any previous amounts extended. See comment 103(b)-3.
5.
Initial amount otherwise undetermined.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data,
which includes the credit amount initially requested by the applicant (other than for products that do not involve a specific amount requested). However, if a financial institution is nonetheless unable to collect or otherwise determine the amount initially requested, the financial institution reports that the amount applied for is “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.” But see comment 107(a)(7)-2 for how to report the credit amount initially requested by the applicant for particular types of credit products that do not involve a specific amount requested.

# 107(a)(8) Amount Approved or Originated
1.
General.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(8) by reporting the amount approved or originated for credit that is originated or approved but not accepted. For applications that the financial institution, pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(9), reports as denied, withdrawn by the applicant, or incomplete, the financial institution reports that the amount approved or originated is “not applicable.”
2.
Multiple approval amounts.
A financial institution may sometimes approve an applicant for more than one credit amount, allowing the applicant to choose which amount the applicant prefers for the extension or line of credit. When multiple approval amounts are offered for a closed-end credit transaction for which the action taken is approved but not accepted, and the applicant does not accept the approved offer of credit in any amount, the financial institution reports the highest amount approved. If the applicant accepts the offer of closed-end credit, the financial institution reports the amount originated. When multiple approval amounts are offered for an open-end credit transaction for which the action taken is approved but not accepted, and the applicant does not accept the approved offer of credit in any amount, the financial institution reports the highest amount approved. If the applicant accepts the offer of open-end credit, the financial institution reports the actual credit limit established.
3.
Amount approved or originated—closed-end credit transaction.
For an originated closed-end credit transaction, the financial institution reports the principal amount to be repaid. This amount will generally be disclosed on the legal obligation.
4.
Amount approved or originated—refinancing.
For a refinancing, the financial institution reports the amount of credit approved or originated under the terms of the new debt obligation.
5.
Amount approved or originated—counteroffer.
If an applicant agrees to proceed with consideration of a counteroffer for an amount or limit different from the amount for which the applicant applied, and the covered credit transaction is approved and originated, the financial institution reports the amount granted. If an applicant does not agree to proceed with consideration of a counteroffer or fails to respond, the institution reports the application as denied and reports “not applicable” for the amount approved or originated. See comment 107(a)(9)-2.
6.
Amount approved or originated—existing accounts.
For additional credit amounts that were approved for or originated on an existing account, the financial institution reports only the additional credit amount approved or originated, and not any previous amounts extended.

# 107(a)(9) Action Taken
1.
General.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(9) by selecting the action taken by the financial institution on the application from the following list: originated, approved but not accepted, denied, withdrawn by the applicant, or incomplete. A financial institution identifies the applicable action taken code based on final action taken on the covered application.
i.
Originated.
A financial institution reports that the application was originated if the financial institution made a credit decision approving the application and that credit decision resulted in an extension of credit.
ii.
Approved but not accepted.
A financial institution reports that the application was approved but not accepted if the financial institution made a credit decision approving the application, but the applicant or the party that initially received the application failed to respond to the financial institution's approval within the specified time, or the covered credit transaction was not otherwise consummated or the account was not otherwise opened.
iii.
Denied.
A financial institution reports that the application was denied if it made a credit decision denying the application before an applicant withdrew the application, before the application was closed for incompleteness, or before the application was denied on the basis of incompleteness.
iv.
Withdrawn by the applicant.
A financial institution reports that the application was withdrawn if the application was expressly withdrawn by the applicant before the financial institution made a credit decision approving or denying the application, before the application was closed for incompleteness, or before the application was denied on the basis of incompleteness.
v.
Incomplete.
A financial institution reports that the application was incomplete if the financial institution took adverse action on the basis of incompleteness under § 1002.9(a)(1)(ii) and (c)(1)(i) or provided a written notice of incompleteness under § 1002.9(c)(1)(ii) and (2), and the applicant did
not respond to the request for additional information within the period of time specified in the notice.
2.
Treatment of counteroffers.
If a financial institution makes a counteroffer to grant credit on terms other than those originally requested by the applicant (for example, for a shorter loan maturity, with a different interest rate, or in a different amount) and the applicant declines the counteroffer or fails to respond, the institution reports the action taken as a denial on the original terms requested by the applicant. If the applicant agrees to proceed with consideration of the financial institution's counteroffer, the financial institution reports the action taken as the disposition of the application based on the terms of the counteroffer. For example, assume an applicant applies for a term loan and the financial institution makes a counteroffer to proceed with consideration of a line of credit. If the applicant declines to be considered for a line of credit, the financial institution reports the application as a denied request for a term loan. If, on the other hand, the applicant agrees to be considered for a line of credit, then the financial institution reports the action taken as the disposition of the application for the line of credit. For instance, using the same example, if the financial institution makes a credit decision approving the line of credit, but the applicant fails to respond to the financial institution's approval within the specified time by accepting the credit offer, the financial institution reports the application on the line of credit as approved but not accepted.
3.
Treatment of rescinded transactions.
If a borrower successfully rescinds a transaction after closing but before a financial institution is required to submit its small business lending application register containing the information for the application under § 1002.109, the institution reports the application as approved but not accepted.
4.
Treatment of pending applications.
A financial institution does not report any application still pending at the end of the calendar year; it reports such applications on its small business lending application register for the year in which final action is taken.
5.
Treatment of conditional approvals.
If a financial institution issues an approval that is subject to the applicant meeting certain conditions prior to closing, the financial institution reports the action taken as provided below dependent on whether the conditions are solely customary commitment or closing conditions or if the conditions include any underwriting or creditworthiness conditions. Customary commitment or closing conditions may include, for example, a clear-title requirement, proof of insurance policies, or a subordination agreement from another lienholder. Underwriting or creditworthiness conditions may include, for example, conditions that constitute a counteroffer (such as a demand for a higher down-payment), satisfactory loan-to-value ratios, or verification or confirmation, in whatever form the institution requires, that the applicant meets underwriting conditions concerning applicant creditworthiness, including documentation or verification of revenue, income or assets.
i.
Conditional approval—denial.
If the approval is conditioned on satisfying underwriting or creditworthiness conditions, those conditions are not met, and the financial institution takes adverse action on some basis other than incompleteness, the financial institution reports the action taken as denied.
ii.
Conditional approval—incompleteness.
If the approval is conditioned on satisfying underwriting or creditworthiness conditions that the financial institution needs to make the credit decision, and the financial institution takes adverse action on the basis of incompleteness under § 1002.9(a)(1)(ii) and (c)(1)(i), or has sent a written notice of incompleteness under § 1002.9(c)(1)(ii) and (2), and the applicant did not respond within the period of time specified in the notice, the financial institution reports the action taken as incomplete.
iii.
Conditional approval—approved but not accepted.
If the approval is conditioned on satisfying conditions that are solely customary commitment or closing conditions and the conditions are not met, the financial institution reports the action taken as approved but not accepted. If all the conditions (underwriting, creditworthiness, or customary commitment or closing conditions) are satisfied and the financial institution agrees to extend credit but the covered credit transaction is not originated (for example, because the applicant withdraws), the financial institution reports the action taken as approved but not accepted.
iv.
Conditional approval—withdrawn by the applicant.
If the applicant expressly withdraws before satisfying all underwriting or creditworthiness conditions and before the institution denies the application or before the institution closes the file for incompleteness, the financial institution reports the action taken as withdrawn.

# 107(a)(10) Action Taken Date
1.
Reporting action taken date for denied applications.
For applications that are denied, a financial institution reports either the date the application was denied or the date the denial notice was sent to the applicant.
2.
Reporting action taken date for applications withdrawn by applicant.
For applications that are withdrawn by the applicant, the financial institution reports the date the express withdrawal was received, or the date shown on the notification form in the case of a written withdrawal.
3.
Reporting action taken date for applications that are approved but not accepted.
For applications approved by a financial institution but not accepted by the applicant, the financial institution reports any reasonable date, such as the approval date, the deadline for accepting the offer, or the date the file was closed. A financial institution should generally be consistent in its approach to reporting by, for example, establishing procedures for how to report this date for particular scenarios, products, or divisions.
4.
Reporting action taken date for originated applications.
For applications that result in an extension of credit, a financial institution generally reports the closing or account opening date. If the disbursement of funds takes place on a date later than the closing or account opening date, the institution may, alternatively, use the date of initial disbursement. A financial institution should generally be consistent in its approach to reporting by, for example, establishing procedures for how to report this date for particular scenarios, products, or divisions.
5.
Reporting action taken date for incomplete applications.
For applications closed for incompleteness or denied for incompleteness, the financial institution reports either the date the action was taken or the date the denial or incompleteness notice was sent to the applicant.

# 107(a)(11) Denial Reasons
1.
Reason for denial—in general.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(11) by reporting the principal reason or reasons it denied the application, indicating up to four reasons. The financial institution reports only the principal reason or reasons it denied the application. For example, if a financial institution denies an application due to insufficient cashflow, unacceptable collateral, and unverifiable business information, the financial institution is required to report these three reasons. The reasons reported must accurately describe the principal reason or reasons the financial institution denied the application. A financial institution reports denial reasons by selecting its principal reason or reasons for denying the application from the following list:
i.
Credit characteristics of the business.
A financial institution reports the denial reason as “credit characteristics of the business” if it denies the application based on an assessment of the business's ability to meet its current or future credit obligations. Examples include business credit score, history of business bankruptcy or delinquency, and/or a high number of recent business credit inquiries.
ii.
Credit characteristics of the principal owner(s) or guarantor(s).
A financial institution reports the denial reason as “credit characteristics of the principal owner(s) or guarantor(s)” if it denies the application based on an assessment of the principal owner(s) or guarantor(s)'s ability to meet its current or future credit obligations. Examples include principal owner(s) or guarantor(s)'s credit score, history of charge offs, bankruptcy or delinquency, low net worth, limited or insufficient credit history, or history of excessive overdraft.
iii.
Use of credit proceeds.
A financial institution reports the denial reason as “use of credit proceeds” if it denies an application because, as a matter of policy or practice, it places limits on lending to certain kinds of businesses, products, or activities it has identified as high risk.
iv.
Cashflow.
A financial institution reports the denial reason as “cashflow” when it denies an application due to insufficient or inconsistent cashflow.
v.
Collateral.
A financial institution reports the denial reason as “collateral” when it denies an application due to collateral that it deems insufficient or otherwise unacceptable.
vi.
Time in business.
A financial institution reports the denial reason as “time in business” when it denies an application due to insufficient time or experience in a line of business.
vii.
Government loan program criteria.
Certain loan programs are backed by government agencies that have specific eligibility requirements. When those requirements are not met by an applicant, and the financial institution denies the application, the financial institution reports the denial reason as “government loan program criteria.” For example, if an applicant cannot meet a government-guaranteed loan program's requirement to provide a guarantor or proof of insurance, the financial institution reports the reason for the denial as “government loan program criteria.”
viii.
Aggregate exposure.
Aggregate exposure is a measure of the total exposure or level of indebtedness of the business and its principal owner(s) associated with an application. A financial institution reports the denial reason as “aggregate exposure” where the total debt associated with the application is deemed high or exceeds certain debt thresholds set by the financial institution. For example, if an application for unsecured credit exceeds the maximum amount a financial institution is permitted to approve per applicant, as stated in its credit guidelines, and the financial institution denies the application for this reason, the financial institution reports the reason for denial as “aggregate exposure.”
ix.
Unverifiable information.
A financial institution reports the denial reason as “unverifiable information” when it is unable to verify information provided as part of the application, and denies the application for that reason. The unverifiable information
must be necessary for the financial institution to make a credit decision based on its procedures for the type of credit requested. Examples include unverifiable assets or collateral, unavailable business credit report, and unverifiable business ownership composition.
x.
Other.
A financial institution reports the denial reason as “other” where none of the enumerated denial reasons adequately describe the principal reason or reasons it denied the application, and the institution reports the denial reason or reasons via free-form text field.
2.
Reason for denial—not applicable.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(11) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the action taken on the application, pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(9), is not a denial. For example, if the application resulted in an originated covered credit transaction, or the application was approved but not accepted, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(11) by reporting not applicable.

# 107(a)(12) Pricing Information
1.
General.
For applications that a financial institution, pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(9), reports as denied, withdrawn by the applicant, or incomplete, the financial institution reports that pricing information is “not applicable.”

# 107(a)(12)(i) Interest Rate
1.
General.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(i) by reporting the interest rate applicable to the amount of credit approved or originated as reported pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(8).
2.
Interest rate—initial period.
If a covered credit transaction includes an initial period with an introductory interest rate of 12 months or less, after which the interest rate adjusts upwards or shifts from a fixed to variable rate, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(i) by reporting information about the interest rate applicable after the initial period. If a covered transaction includes an initial period with an interest rate of more than 12 months after which the interest rate resets, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(i) by reporting information about the interest rate applicable prior to the reset period. For example, if a financial institution originates a covered credit transaction with a fixed, initial interest rate of 0 percent for six months following origination, after which the interest rate will adjust according to a Prime index rate plus a 3 percent margin, the financial institution reports the 3 percent margin, Prime as the name of the index used to adjust the interest rate, the number 6 for the length of the initial period, and “not applicable” for the index value. As another example, in a 10/1 adjustable-rate mortgage transaction, where the first 10 years of the repayment period has a fixed rate of 3 percent and after year 10 the interest rate will adjust according to a Prime index rate plus a 3 percent margin, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(i) by reporting the fixed rate of 3 percent, the number 120 for the initial period, and “not applicable” in the fields for the index, margin, and index value.
3.
Multiple interest rates.
If a covered credit transaction includes multiple interest rates applicable to different credit features, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(i) by reporting the interest rate applicable to the amount of credit approved or originated reported pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(8). For example, if a financial institution originates a credit card with different interest rates for purchases, balance transfers, cash advances, and overdraft advances, the financial institution reports the interest rate applicable for purchases.
4.
Index names.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(i) by selecting the index used from the following list: Wall Street Journal Prime, 6-month CD rate, 1-year T-Bill, 3-year T-Bill, 5-year T-Note, 12-month average of 10-year T-Bill, Cost of Funds Index (COFI)-National, Cost of Funds Index (COFI)-11th District, Constant Maturity Treasury (CMT). If the index used is internal to the financial institution, the financial institution reports “internal index” via the list of indices provided. If the index used does not appear on the list of indices provided (and is not internal to the financial institution), the financial institution reports “other” and reports the name of the index via free-form text field.
5.
Index value.
For covered transactions with an adjustable interest rate, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(i)(B) by reporting the index value used to set the rate that is or would be applicable to the covered transaction.

# 107(a)(12)(ii) Total Origination Charges
1.
Charges in comparable cash transactions.
Charges imposed uniformly in cash and credit transactions are not reportable under § 1002.107(a)(12)(ii). In determining whether an item is part of the total origination charges, a financial institution should compare the covered credit transaction in question with a similar cash transaction. A financial institution financing the sale of property or services may compare charges with those payable in a similar cash transaction by the seller of the property or service.
2.
Charges by third parties.
A financial institution includes fees and amounts charged by someone other than the financial institution in the total charges reported if the financial institution:
i. Requires the use of a third party as a condition of or an incident to the extension of credit, even if the applicant can choose the third party; or
ii. Retains a portion of the third-party charge, to the extent of the portion retained.
3.
Special rule; broker fees.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(ii) by including fees charged by a broker (including fees paid by the applicant directly to the broker or to the financial institution for delivery to the broker) in the total origination charges reported even if the financial institution does not require the applicant to use a broker and even if the financial institution does not retain any portion of the charge. For more information on broker fees, see commentary for § 1002.107(a)(12)(iii).
4.
Bundled services.
Total origination charges include all charges imposed directly or indirectly by the financial institution at or before origination as an incident to or a condition of the extension of credit. Accordingly, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(ii) by including charges for other products or services paid at or before origination in the total origination charges reported if the financial institution requires the purchase of such other product or service as a condition of or an incident to the extension of credit.
5.
Origination charges—examples.
Examples of origination charges may include application fees, credit report fees, points, appraisal fees, and other similar charges.
6.
Net lender credit.
If a financial institution provides a credit to an applicant that is greater than the total origination charges the applicant would have paid, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(ii) by reporting the net lender credit as a negative amount. For example, if a covered transaction has $500 provided to the applicant at origination to offset closing costs, and the financial institution does not charge any origination charges, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(ii) by reporting negative $500 as the total origination charges.

# 107(a)(12)(iii) Broker Fees
1.
Amount.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iii) by including the fees reported in § 1002.107(a)(12)(ii) that are fees paid by the applicant directly to the broker or to the financial institution for delivery to the broker. For example, a covered transaction has $3,000 of total origination charges. Of that $3,000, $250 are fees paid by the applicant directly to a broker and an additional $300 are fees paid to the financial institution for delivery to the broker. The financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iii) by reporting $550 in the broker fees reported.
2.
Fees paid directly to a broker by an applicant.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iii) by relying on the best information readily available to the financial institution at the time final action is taken. Information readily available could include, for example, information provided by an applicant or broker that the financial institution reasonably believes regarding the amount of fees paid by the applicant directly to the broker.

# 107(a)(12)(iv) Initial Annual Charges
1.
Charges during the initial annual period.
The total initial annual charges include all charges scheduled to be imposed during the initial annual period following origination. For example, if a financial institution originates a covered credit transaction with a $50 monthly fee and a $100 annual fee, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iv) by reporting $700 in the initial annual charges reported. If there will be a charge in the initial annual period following origination but the amount of that charge is uncertain at the time of origination, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iv) by not reporting that charge as scheduled to be imposed during the initial annual period following origination.
2.
Interest excluded.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iv) by excluding any interest expense from the initial annual charges reported.
3.
Avoidable charges.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iv) by only including scheduled charges and excluding any charges for events that are avoidable by the applicant from the initial annual charges reported. Examples of avoidable charges include charges for late payment, for exceeding a credit limit, for delinquency or default, or for paying items that overdraw an account.
4.
Initial annual charges—examples.
Examples of charges scheduled to be imposed during the initial annual period may include monthly fees, annual fees, and other similar charges.
5.
Scheduled charges with variable amounts.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iv) by reporting as the default the highest amount for a charge scheduled to be imposed. For example, if a covered credit transaction has a $75 monthly fee, but the fee is reduced to $0 if the applicant maintains an account at the financial institution originating the covered credit transaction, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iv) by reporting $900 ($75 × 12) in the initial annual charges reported.
6.
Transactions with a term of less than one year.
For a transaction with a term of less than one year, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(iv) by reporting all charges scheduled to be imposed during the term of the transaction.

# 107(a)(12)(v) Additional Cost for Merchant Cash Advances or Other Sales-Based Financing
1.
Merchant cash advances.
Section 1002.107(a)(12)(v) requires a financial institution to report the difference between the amount advanced and the amount to be repaid for a merchant cash advance or other sales-based financing transaction. Thus, in a merchant cash advance, a financial institution reports the difference between the amount advanced and the amount to be repaid, using the amounts (expressed in dollars) provided in the contract between the financial institution and the applicant.

# 107(a)(12)(vi) Prepayment Penalties
1.
Policies and procedures applicable to the covered credit transaction.
The policies and procedures applicable to the covered credit transaction include the practices that the financial institution follows when evaluating applications for the specific credit type and credit purpose requested. For example, assume that a financial institution's written procedures permit it to include prepayment penalties in the loan agreement for its term loans secured by non-owner occupied commercial real estate. For such transactions, the financial institution includes prepayment penalties in some loan agreements but not others. For an application for, or origination of, a term loan secured by non-owner occupied commercial real estate, the financial institution reports under § 1002.107(a)(12)(vi)(A) that a prepayment penalty could have been included under the policies and procedures applicable to the transaction, regardless of whether the term loan secured by non-owner occupied commercial real estate actually includes a prepayment penalty.
2.
Balloon finance charges.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(12)(vi) by reporting as a prepayment penalty any balloon finance charge that may be imposed for paying all or part of the transaction's principal before the date on which the principal is due. For example, under the terms of a transaction, the amount of funds advanced is $12,000, the amount to be repaid is $24,000 (which includes $12,000 in principal and $12,000 in interest and fees), the length of the transaction is 12 months, and the applicant must repay $2,000 per month. The terms of the transaction state that if the applicant prepays the principal before the 12-month period is over, the applicant is responsible for paying the difference between $24,000 and the amount the applicant has already repaid prior to initiating prepayment. The difference between the $24,000 to be repaid and what the applicant has already repaid prior to initiating prepayment is a balloon finance charge and should be reported as a prepayment penalty.

# 107(a)(13) Census Tract
1.
General.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(13) by reporting a census tract number as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau, which includes State and county numerical codes. A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(13) if it uses the boundaries and codes in effect on January 1 of the calendar year covered by the small business lending application register that it is reporting. The financial institution reports census tract based on the following:
i.
Proceeds address.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(13) by reporting a census tract based on the address or location where the proceeds of the credit applied for or originated will be or would have been principally applied, if known. For example, a financial institution would report a census tract based on the address or location of the site where the proceeds of a construction loan will be applied.
ii.
Main office or headquarters address.
If the address or location where the proceeds of the credit applied for or originated will be or would have been principally applied is unknown, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(13) by reporting a census tract number based on the address or location of the main office or headquarters of the applicant, if known. For example, the address or location of the main office or headquarters of the applicant may be the home address of a sole proprietor or the office address of a sole proprietor or other applicant.
iii.
Another address or location.
If neither the address or location where the proceeds of the credit applied for or originated will be or would have been principally applied nor the address or location of the main office or headquarters of the applicant are known, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(13) by reporting a census tract number based on another address or location associated with the applicant.
iv.
Type of address used.
In addition to reporting the census tract, pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(13)(iv) a financial institution must report which one of the three types of addresses or locations listed in § 1002.107(a)(13)(i) through (iii) and described in comments 107(a)(13)-1.i through iii that the census tract is determined from.
2.
Financial institution discretion.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(13) by identifying the appropriate address or location and the type of that address or location in good faith, using appropriate information from the applicant's credit file or otherwise known by the financial institution. A financial institution is not required to make inquiries beyond its standard procedures as to the nature of the addresses or locations it collects.
3.
Address or location not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.
Pursuant to
§ 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes at least one address or location for an applicant for census tract reporting. However, if a financial institution is nonetheless unable to collect or otherwise determine any address or location for an application, the financial institution reports that the census tract information is “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.”
4.
Safe harbor.
As described in § 1002.112(c)(2) and comment 112(c)-1, a financial institution that obtains an incorrect census tract by correctly using a geocoding tool provided by the FFIEC or the Bureau does not violate the Act or subpart B of this part.

# 107(a)(14) Gross Annual Revenue
1.
Collecting gross annual revenue.
A financial institution reports the applicant's gross annual revenue, expressed in dollars, for its fiscal year preceding when the information was collected. A financial institution may rely on the applicant's statements or on information provided by the applicant in collecting and reporting gross annual revenue, even if the applicant's statement or information is based on estimation or extrapolation. However, pursuant to § 1002.107(b), if the financial institution verifies the gross annual revenue provided by the applicant, it must report the verified information. Also, pursuant to comment 107(c)(1)-5, a financial institution reports updated gross annual revenue data if it obtains more current data from the applicant during the application process. If a financial institution has already verified gross annual revenue data and then the applicant updates it, the financial institution reports the information it believes to be more accurate, in its discretion. The financial institution may use the following language to ask about gross annual revenue and may rely on the applicant's answer (unless subsequently verified or updated):
What was the gross annual revenue of the business applying for credit in its last full fiscal year? Gross annual revenue is the amount of money the business earned before subtracting taxes and other expenses. You may provide gross annual revenue calculated using any reasonable method.
2.
Gross annual revenue not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes the gross annual revenue of the applicant. However, if a financial institution is nonetheless unable to collect or determine the gross annual revenue of the applicant, the financial institution reports that the gross annual revenue is “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.”
3.
Affiliate revenue.
A financial institution is permitted, but not required, to report the gross annual revenue for the applicant that includes the revenue of affiliates as well. Likewise, as explained in comment 106(b)(1)-3, in determining whether the applicant is a small business under § 1002.106(b), a financial institution may rely on an applicant's representations regarding gross annual revenue, which may or may not include affiliates' revenue.
4.
Gross annual revenue for a startup business.
In a typical startup business situation where the applicant has no gross annual revenue for its fiscal year preceding when the information is collected, the financial institution reports that the applicant's gross annual revenue in the preceding fiscal year is “zero.” The financial institution shall not report pro forma projected revenue figures because these figures do not reflect actual gross revenue.

# 107(a)(15) NAICS Code
1.
General.
NAICS stands for North American Industry Classification System. The Office of Management and Budget has charged the Economic Classification Policy Committee with the maintenance and review of NAICS. A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(15) if it uses the 3-digit NAICS subsector codes in effect on January 1 of the calendar year covered by the small business lending application register that it is reporting.
2.
NAICS not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes NAICS code. However, if a financial institution is nonetheless unable to collect or otherwise determine a NAICS code for the applicant, the financial institution reports that the NAICS code is “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.”
3.
Safe harbor.
As described in § 1002.112(c)(3) and comment 112(c)-2, a financial institution that obtains an incorrect NAICS code does not violate the Act or subpart B of this part if it either relies on an applicant's representations or on an appropriate third-party source, in accordance with § 1002.107(b), regarding the NAICS code, or identifies the NAICS code itself, provided that the financial institution maintains procedures reasonably adapted to correctly identify a 3-digit NAICS code.

# 107(a)(16) Number of Workers
1.
General.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(16) by reporting the number of people who work for the applicant, using the ranges prescribed in the Filing Instructions Guide.
2.
Collecting number of workers.
A financial institution may collect number of workers
from an applicant using the ranges for reporting as specified by the Bureau (see comment 107(a)(16)-1) or as a numerical value. When asking for the number of workers from an applicant, a financial institution shall explain that full-time, part-time and seasonal employees, as well as contractors who work primarily for the applicant, would be counted as workers, but principal owners of the applicant would not. If asked, the financial institution shall explain that volunteers are not counted as workers, and workers for affiliates of the applicant are counted if the financial institution were also collecting the affiliates' gross annual revenue. The financial institution may use the following language to ask about the number of workers and may rely on the applicant's answer (unless subsequently verified or updated):
Counting full-time, part-time and seasonal workers, as well as contractors who work primarily for the business applying for credit, but not counting principal owners of the business, how many people work for the business applying for credit?
3.
Number of workers not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes the number of workers of the applicant. However, if a financial institution is nonetheless unable to collect or determine the number of workers of the applicant, the financial institution reports that the number of workers is “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.”

# 107(a)(17) Time in Business
1.
Collecting time in business.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(17) by reporting the time the applicant has been in business.
i. If a financial institution collects or otherwise obtains the number of years an applicant has been in business as part of its procedures for evaluating an application for credit, it reports the time in business in whole years, rounded down to the nearest whole year.
ii. If a financial institution does not collect time in business as described in comment 107(a)(17)-1.i, but as part of its procedures determines whether or not the applicant's time in business is less than two years, it reports the applicant's time in business as either less than two years or two or more years in business.
iii. If a financial institution does not collect time in business as part of its procedures for evaluating an application for credit as described in comments 107(a)(17)-1.i or .ii, the financial institution complies with § 1002.107(a)(17) by asking the applicant whether it has been in existence for less than two years or two or more years and reporting the information provided by the applicant accordingly.
2.
Time in business collected as part of the financial institution's procedures for evaluating an application for credit.
A financial institution that collects or obtains an applicant's time in business as part of its procedures for evaluating an application for credit is not required to collect or obtain time in business pursuant to any particular definition of time in business for this purpose. For example, if the financial institution collects the number of years the applicant has existed (such as by asking the applicant when its business was started, or by obtaining the applicant's date of incorporation from a Secretary of State or other State or Federal agency that registers or licenses businesses) as the time in business, the financial institution reports that information accordingly pursuant to comment 107(a)(17)-1.i. Similarly, if the financial institution collects the number of years of experience the applicant's owners have in the current line of business, the financial institution reports that information accordingly pursuant to comment 107(a)(17)-1.i. If, however, the financial institution collects both the number of years the applicant has existed as well as some other measure of time in business (such as the number of years of experience the applicant's owners have in the current line of business), the financial institution reports the number of years the applicant has existed as the time in business pursuant to comment 107(a)(17)-1.i.
3.
Time in business not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes the applicant's time in business. However, if a financial institution is nonetheless unable to collect or determine the applicant's time in business, the financial institution reports that the time in business is “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.”

# 107(a)(18) Minority-Owned, Women-Owned, and LGBTQI+-Owned Business Statuses
1.
General.
A financial institution must ask an applicant whether it is a minority-owned, women-owned, and/or LGBTQI+-owned business. The financial institution must permit an applicant to refuse (
i.e.,
decline) to answer the financial institution's inquiry regarding business status and must inform the applicant that the applicant is not required to provide the information. See the sample data collection form in appendix E to this part for sample language for providing this notice to applicants. The financial institution must report the applicant's substantive response regarding each business status, that the applicant declined to answer the inquiry
(that is, selected an answer option of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar), or its failure to respond to the inquiry (that is, “not provided by applicant”), as applicable.
2.
Definitions.
When inquiring about minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses (regardless of whether the request is made on a paper form, electronically, or orally), the financial institution also must provide the applicant with definitions of the terms “minority-owned business,” “women-owned business,” and “LGBTQI+-owned business” as set forth in § 1002.102 (m), (s) and (
l
), respectively. The financial institution satisfies this requirement if it provides the definitions as set forth in the sample data collection form in appendix E.
3.
Combining questions.
A financial institution may combine on the same paper or electronic data collection form the questions regarding minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business status pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) with principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(19) and the applicant's number of principal owners pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(20). See the sample data collection form in appendix E.
4.
Notices.
When requesting minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses from an applicant, a financial institution must inform the applicant that the financial institution cannot discriminate on the basis of the applicant's minority-owned, women-owned, or LGBTQI+-owned business statuses, or on whether the applicant provides its minority-owned, women-owned, or LGBTQI+-owned business statuses. A financial institution must also inform the applicant that Federal law requires it to ask for an applicant's minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses to help ensure that all small business applicants for credit are treated fairly and that communities' small business credit needs are being fulfilled. A financial institution may combine these notices regarding minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses with the notices that a financial institution is required to provide when requesting principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex if a financial institution requests information pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) in the same data collection form or at the same time. See the sample data collection form in appendix E for sample language that a financial institution may use for these notices.
5.
Maintaining the record of an applicant's response regarding minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses separate from the application.
A financial institution must maintain the record of an applicant's responses to the financial institution's inquiry pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) separate from the application and accompanying information. See § 1002.111(b) and comment 111(b)-1. If the financial institution provides a paper or electronic data collection form, the data collection form must not be part of the application form or any other document that the financial institution uses to provide or collect any information other than minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, LGBTQI+-owned business status, principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex, and the number of the applicant's principal owners. See the sample data collection form in appendix E. For example, if the financial institution sends the data collection form via email, the data collection form should be a separate attachment to the email or accessed through a separate link in the email. If the financial institution uses a web-based data collection form, the form should be on its own page.
6.
Minority-owned, women-owned, and/or LGBTQI+-owned business statuses not provided by applicant.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes the applicant's minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses. However, if a financial institution does not receive a response to the financial institution's inquiry pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18), the financial institution reports that the applicant's business statuses were “not provided by applicant.”
7.
Applicant declines to provide information about minority-owned, women-owned, and/or LGBTQI+-owned business statuses.
A financial institution reports that the applicant responded that it did not wish to provide the information about an applicant's minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses, if the applicant declines to provide the information by selecting such a response option on a paper or electronic form (
e.g.,
by selecting an answer option of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar). The financial institution also reports an applicant's refusal to provide such information in this way, if the applicant orally declines to provide such information for a covered application taken by telephone or another medium that does not involve providing any paper or electronic documents.
8.
Conflicting responses provided by applicants.
If the applicant both provides a substantive response to the financial institution's inquiry regarding business status (that is, indicates that it is a minority-owned, women-owned, and/or LGBTQI+-owned business, or checks “none apply” or similar) and also checks the box indicating “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar, the financial institution reports the substantive response(s) provided by the
applicant (rather than reporting that the applicant declined to provide the information).
9.
No verification of business statuses.
Notwithstanding § 1002.107(b), a financial institution must report the applicant's substantive response(s), that the applicant declined to answer the inquiry (that is, selected an answer option of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar), or the applicant's failure to respond to the inquiry (that is, that the information was “not provided by applicant”) pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18), even if the financial institution verifies or otherwise obtains an applicant's minority-owned, women-owned, and/or LGBTQI+-owned business statuses for other purposes. For example, if a financial institution uses a paper data collection form to ask an applicant if it is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, and/or an LGBTQI+-owned business and the applicant does not indicate that it is a minority-owned business, the financial institution must not report that the applicant is a minority-owned business, even if the applicant indicates that it is a minority-owned business for other purposes, such as for a special purpose credit program or a Small Business Administration program.

# 107(a)(19) Ethnicity, Race, and Sex of Principal Owners
1.
General.
A financial institution must ask an applicant to provide its principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex. The financial institution must permit an applicant to refuse (
i.e.,
decline) to answer the financial institution's inquiry and must inform the applicant that it is not required to provide the information. See the sample data collection form in appendix E to this part for sample language for providing this notice to applicants. The financial institution must report the applicant's substantive responses regarding principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex, that the applicant declined to answer an inquiry (that is, selected an answer option of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar), or its failure to respond to an inquiry (that is, “not provided by applicant”), as applicable. The financial institution must report an applicant's responses about its principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex, regardless of whether an applicant declines or fails to answer an inquiry about the number of its principal owners under § 1002.107(a)(20). If an applicant provides some, but not all, of the requested information about the ethnicity, race, and sex of a principal owner, the financial institution reports the information that was provided by the applicant and reports that the applicant declined to provide or did not provide (as applicable) the remainder of the information. See comments 107(a)(19)-6 and -7.
2.
Definition of principal owner.
When requesting a principal owner's ethnicity, race, and sex, the financial institution must also provide the applicant with the definition of the term “principal owner” as set forth in § 1002.102(o). The financial institution satisfies this requirement if it provides the definition of principal owner as set forth in the sample data collection form in appendix E.
3.
Combining questions.
A financial institution may combine on the same paper or electronic data collection form the questions regarding the principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(19) with the applicant's number of principal owners pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(20) and the applicant's minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18). See the sample data collection form in appendix E.
4.
Notices.
When requesting a principal owner's ethnicity, race, and sex from an applicant, a financial institution must inform the applicant that the financial institution cannot discriminate on the basis of a principal owner's ethnicity, race, or sex/gender, or on whether the applicant provides the information. A financial institution must also inform the applicant that Federal law requires it to ask for the principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex/gender to help ensure that all small business applicants for credit are treated fairly and that communities' small business credit needs are being fulfilled. A financial institution may combine these notices with the similar notices that a financial institution is required to provide when requesting minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, and LGBTQI+-owned business status, if a financial institution requests information pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) in the same data collection form or at the same time. See the sample data collection form in appendix E for sample language that a financial institution may use for these notices.
5.
Maintaining the record of an applicant's responses regarding principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex separate from the application.
A financial institution must maintain the record of an applicant's response to the financial institution's inquiries pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(19) separate from the application and accompanying information.
See
§ 1002.111(b) and comment 111(b)-1. If the financial institution provides a paper or electronic data collection form, the data collection form must not be part of the application form or any other document that the financial institution uses to provide or collect any information other than minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, LGBTQI+-owned business status, principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex, and the number of the applicant's principal owners. See the sample data collection form in appendix E for sample language. For example, if the financial institution sends the data
collection form via email, the data collection form should be a separate attachment to the email or accessed through a separate link in the email. If the financial institution uses a web-based data collection form, the form should be on its own page.
6.
Ethnicity, race, or sex of principal owners not provided by applicant.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant's principal owners. However, if an applicant does not provide the information, such as in response to a request for a principal owner's ethnicity, race, or sex on a paper or electronic data collection form, the financial institution reports the ethnicity, race, or sex (as applicable) as “not provided by applicant” for that principal owner. For example, if the financial institution provides a paper data collection form to an applicant with two principal owners, and asks the applicant to complete and return the form but the applicant does not do so, the financial institution reports that the two principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex were “not provided by applicant.” Similarly, if the financial institution provides an electronic data collection form, the applicant indicates that it has two principal owners, the applicant provides ethnicity, race, and sex for the first principal owner, and the applicant does not make any selections for the second principal owner's ethnicity, race, and sex, the financial institution reports the ethnicity, race, and sex that the applicant provided for the first principal owner and reports that each of the ethnicity, race, and sex for the second principal owner was “not provided by applicant.” Additionally, if the financial institution provides an electronic or paper data collection form, the applicant indicates that it has one principal owner, provides the principal owner's ethnicity and sex information, but does not provide information about the principal owner's race and also does not select a response of “I do not wish to provide this information” with regard to race, the financial institution reports the ethnicity and sex provided by the applicant and reports that the race of the principal owner was “not provided by applicant.”
7.
Applicant declines to provide information about a principal owner's ethnicity, race, or sex.
A financial institution reports that the applicant responded that it did not wish to provide the information about a principal owner's ethnicity, race, or sex (as applicable), if the applicant declines to provide the information by selecting such a response option on a paper or electronic form (
e.g.,
by selecting an answer option of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar). The financial institution also reports an applicant's refusal to provide such information in this way, if the applicant orally declines to provide such information for a covered application taken by telephone or another medium that does not involve providing any paper or electronic documents.
8.
Conflicting responses provided by applicant.
If the applicant both provides a substantive response to a request for a principal owner's ethnicity, race, or sex (that is, identifies a principal owner's race, ethnicity, or sex) and also checks the box indicating “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar, the financial institution reports the information on ethnicity, race, or sex that was provided by the applicant (rather than reporting that the applicant declined provide the information). For example, if an applicant is completing a paper data collection form and writes in a response that a principal owner's sex is female and also indicates on the form that the applicant does not wish to provide information regarding that principal owner's sex, the financial institution reports the principal owner's sex as female.
9.
No verification of ethnicity, race, and sex of principal owners.
Notwithstanding § 1002.107(b), a financial institution must report the applicant's substantive responses as to its principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex (that is, the applicant's identification of its principal owners' race, ethnicity, and sex), that the applicant declined to answer the inquiry (that is, selected an answer option of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar), or the applicant's failure to respond to the inquiry (that is, the information was “not provided by applicant”) pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(19), even if the financial institution verifies or otherwise obtains the ethnicity, race, or sex of the applicant's principal owners for other purposes.
10.
Reporting for fewer than four principal owners.
If an applicant has fewer than four principal owners, the financial institution reports ethnicity, race, and sex information for the number of principal owners that the applicant has and reports the ethnicity, race, and sex fields for additional principal owners as “not applicable.” For example, if an applicant has only one principal owner, the financial institution reports ethnicity, race, and sex information for the first principal owner and reports as “not applicable” the ethnicity, race, and sex data fields for principal owners two through four.
11.
Previously collected ethnicity, race, and sex information.
If a financial institution reports one or more principal owners' ethnicity, race, or sex information based on previously collected data under § 1002.107(d), the financial institution does not need to collect any additional ethnicity, race, or sex information for other principal owners (if any). See also comment 107(d)-9.
12.
Guarantors.
A financial institution does not collect or report a guarantor's ethnicity, race, and sex unless the guarantor is also a
principal owner of the applicant, as defined in § 1002.102(o).
13.
Ethnicity.
i.
Aggregate categories.
A financial institution must permit an applicant to provide each principal owner's ethnicity for purposes of § 1002.107(a)(19) using one or more of the following aggregate categories:
A. Hispanic or Latino.
B. Not Hispanic or Latino.
ii.
Disaggregated subcategories.
A financial institution must permit an applicant to provide each principal owner's ethnicity for purposes of § 1002.107(a)(19) using one or more of the following disaggregated subcategories, regardless of whether the applicant has indicated that the relevant principal owner is Hispanic or Latino and regardless of whether the applicant selects any aggregate categories: Cuban; Mexican; Puerto Rican; or Other Hispanic or Latino. If an applicant indicates that a principal owner is Other Hispanic or Latino, the financial institution must permit the applicant to provide additional information regarding the principal owner's ethnicity, by using free-form text on a paper or electronic data collection form or using language that informs the applicant of the opportunity to self-identify when taking the application by means other than a paper or electronic data collection form, such as by telephone. The financial institution must permit the applicant to provide additional information indicating, for example, that the principal owner is Argentinean, Colombian, Dominican, Nicaraguan, Salvadoran, or Spaniard. See the sample data collection form in appendix E for sample language. If an applicant chooses to provide additional information regarding a principal owner's ethnicity, such as by indicating that a principal owner is Argentinean orally or in writing on a paper or electronic form, a financial institution must report that additional information via free-form text. If the applicant provides such additional information but does not also indicate that the principal owner is Other Hispanic or Latino (
e.g.,
by selecting Other Hispanic or Latino on a paper or electronic form), a financial institution is permitted, but not required, to report Other Hispanic or Latino as well.
iii.
Selecting multiple categories.
The financial institution must permit the applicant to select one, both, or none of the aggregate categories and as many disaggregated subcategories as the applicant chooses. A financial institution must permit an applicant to select a disaggregated subcategory even if the applicant does not select the corresponding aggregate category. For example, an applicant must be permitted to select the Mexican disaggregated subcategory for a principal owner without being required to select the Hispanic or Latino aggregate category. If an applicant provides ethnicity information for a principal owner, the financial institution reports all of the aggregate categories and disaggregated subcategories provided by the applicant. For example, if an applicant selects both aggregate categories and four disaggregated subcategories for a principal owner, the financial institution reports the two aggregate categories that the applicant selected and all four of the disaggregated subcategories that the applicant selected. Additionally, if an applicant selects only the Mexican disaggregated subcategory for a principal owner and no aggregate categories, the financial institution reports Mexican for the ethnicity of the applicant's principal owner but does not also report Hispanic or Latino. Further, if the applicant selects an aggregate category (
e.g.,
Not Hispanic or Latino) and a disaggregated subcategory that does not correspond to the aggregate category (
e.g.,
Puerto Rican), the financial institution reports the information as provided by the applicant (
e.g.,
Not Hispanic or Latino, and Puerto Rican).
14.
Race.
i.
Aggregate categories.
A financial institution must permit an applicant to provide each principal owner's race for purposes of § 1002.107(a)(19) using one or more of the following aggregate categories:
A. American Indian or Alaska Native.
B. Asian.
C. Black or African American.
D. Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander.
E. White.
ii.
Disaggregated subcategories.
The financial institution must permit an applicant to provide a principal owner's race for purposes of § 1002.107(a)(19) using one or more of the disaggregated subcategories as listed in this comment 107(a)(19)-14.ii, regardless of whether the applicant has selected the corresponding aggregate category.
A. The Asian aggregate category includes the following disaggregated subcategories: Asian Indian; Chinese; Filipino; Japanese; Korean; Vietnamese; and Other Asian. An applicant must also be permitted to provide the principal owner's race using one or more of these disaggregated subcategories regardless of whether the applicant indicates that the principal owner is Asian and regardless of whether the applicant selects any aggregate categories. Additionally, if an applicant indicates that a principal owner is Other Asian, the financial institution must permit the applicant to provide additional information about the principal owner's race, by using free-form text on a paper or electronic data collection form or using language that informs the applicant of the opportunity to self-identify when taking the application by means other than a paper or electronic data collection form, such as by telephone. The financial institution must permit the applicant to provide additional information indicating, for example, that the principal owner is Cambodian, Hmong, Laotian, Pakistani, or
Thai. See the sample data collection form in appendix E for sample language.
B. The Black or African American aggregate category includes the following disaggregated subcategories: African American; Ethiopian; Haitian; Jamaican; Nigerian; Somali; or Other Black or African American. An applicant must also be permitted to provide the principal owner's race using one or more of these disaggregated subcategories regardless of whether the applicant indicates that the principal owner is Black or African American and regardless of whether the applicant selects any aggregate categories. Additionally, if an applicant indicates that a principal owner is Other Black or African American, the financial institution must permit the applicant to provide additional information about the principal owner's race, by using free-form text on a paper or electronic data collection form or using language that informs the applicant of the opportunity to self-identify when taking the application by means other than a paper or electronic data collection form, such as by telephone. The financial institution must permit the applicant to provide additional information indicating, for example, that the principal owner is Barbadian, Ghanaian, or South African. See the sample data collection form in appendix E for sample language.
C. The Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander aggregate category includes the following disaggregated subcategories: Guamanian or Chamorro; Native Hawaiian; Samoan; and Other Pacific Islander. An applicant must also be permitted to provide the principal owner's race using one or more of these disaggregated subcategories regardless of whether the applicant indicates that the principal owner is Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander and regardless of whether the applicant selects any aggregate categories. Additionally, if an applicant indicates that a principal owner is Other Pacific Islander, the financial institution must permit the applicant to provide additional information about the principal owner's race, by using free-form text on a paper or electronic data collection form or using language that informs the applicant of the opportunity to self-identify when taking the application by means other than a paper or electronic data collection form, such as by telephone. The financial institution must permit the applicant to provide additional information indicating, for example, that the principal owner is Fijian or Tongan. See the sample data collection form in appendix E for sample language.
D. If an applicant chooses to provide additional information regarding a principal owner's race, such as indicating that a principal owner is Cambodian, Barbadian, or Fijian orally or in writing on a paper or electronic form, a financial institution must report that additional information via free-form text in the appropriate data reporting field. If the applicant provides such additional information but does not also indicate that the principal owner is Other Asian, Other Black or African American, or Other Pacific Islander, as applicable (
e.g.,
by selecting Other Asian on a paper or electronic form), a financial institution is permitted, but not required, to report the corresponding “Other” race disaggregated subcategory (
i.e.,
Other Asian, Other Black or African American, or Other Pacific Islander).
E. In addition to permitting an applicant to indicate that a principal owner is American Indian or Alaska Native, a financial institution must permit an applicant to provide the name of an enrolled or principal tribe, by using free-form text on a paper or electronic data collection form or using language that informs the applicant of the opportunity to self-identify when taking the application by means other than a paper or electronic data collection form, such as by telephone. If an applicant chooses to provide the name of an enrolled or principal tribe, a financial institution must report that information via free-form text in the appropriate data reporting field. If the applicant provides the name of an enrolled or principal tribe but does not also indicate that the principal owner is American Indian or Alaska Native (
e.g.,
by selecting American Indian or Alaska Native on a paper or electronic form), a financial institution is permitted, but not required, to report American Indian or Alaska Native as well.
iii.
Selecting multiple categories.
The financial institution must permit the applicant to select as many aggregate categories and disaggregated subcategories as the applicant chooses. A financial institution must permit an applicant to select one or more disaggregated subcategories even if the applicant does not select an aggregate category. For example, an applicant must be permitted to select the Chinese disaggregated subcategory for a principal owner without being required to select the Asian aggregate category. If an applicant provides race information for a principal owner, the financial institution reports all of the aggregate categories and disaggregated subcategories provided by the applicant. For example, if an applicant selects two aggregate categories and five disaggregated subcategories for a principal owner, the financial institution reports the two aggregate categories that the applicant selected and the five disaggregated subcategories that the applicant selected. Additionally, if an applicant selects only the Chinese disaggregated subcategory for a principal owner, the financial institution reports Chinese for the race of the principal owner but does not also report that the principal owner is Asian. Similarly, if the applicant selects an aggregate
category (
e.g.,
Asian) and a disaggregated subcategory that does not correspond to the aggregate category (
e.g.,
Native Hawaiian), the financial institution reports the information as provided by the applicant (
e.g.,
Asian and Native Hawaiian).
15.
Sex.
Generally, a financial institution must permit an applicant to provide each principal owner's sex for purposes of § 1002.107(a)(19). When requesting information about a principal owner's sex, a financial institution shall use the term “sex/gender.” If the financial institution uses a paper or electronic data collection form to collect the information, the financial institution must allow the applicant to provide each principal owner's sex/gender using free-form text. When a financial institution collects the information orally, such as by telephone, the financial institution must inform the applicant of the opportunity to provide each principal owner's sex/gender and record the applicant's response. A financial institution reports the substantive information provided by the applicant (reported via free-form text in the appropriate data reporting field), or reports that the applicant declined to provide the information.
16.
Ethnicity and race information requested orally.
As described in comments 107(a)(19)-13 and -14, when collecting principal owners' ethnicity and race pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(19), a financial institution must present the applicant with the specified aggregate categories and disaggregated subcategories. When collecting ethnicity and race information orally, such as by telephone, a financial institution may not present the applicant with the option to decline to provide the information without also presenting the applicant with the specified aggregate categories and disaggregated subcategories.
i.
Ethnicity and race categories.
Notwithstanding comments 107(a)(19)-13 and -14, a financial institution is not required to read aloud every disaggregated subcategory when collecting ethnicity and race information orally, such as by telephone. Rather, the financial institution must orally present the lists of aggregate ethnicity and race categories, followed by the disaggregated subcategories (if any) associated with the aggregate categories selected by the applicant or which the applicant requests to be presented. After the applicant makes any disaggregated category selections associated with the aggregate ethnicity or race category, the financial institution must also ask if the applicant wishes to hear the lists of disaggregated subcategories for any aggregate categories not selected by the applicant. The financial institution must record any aggregate categories selected by the applicant, as well as any disaggregated subcategories regardless of whether such subcategories were selected based on the disaggregated subcategories read by the financial institution or were otherwise provided by the applicant.
ii.
More than one principal owner.
If an applicant has more than one principal owner, the financial institution is permitted to ask about ethnicity and race in a manner that reduces repetition when collecting ethnicity and race information orally, such as by telephone. For example, if an applicant has two principal owners, the financial institution may ask for both principal owners' ethnicity at the same time, rather than asking about ethnicity, race, and sex for the first principal owner followed by ethnicity, race, and sex for the second principal owner.

# 107(a)(20) Number of Principal Owners
1.
General.
If the financial institution asks the applicant to provide the number of its principal owners pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(20), a financial institution must provide the definition of principal owner set forth in § 1002.102(o). The financial institution satisfies this requirement if it provides the definition of principal owner as set forth in the sample data collection form in appendix E.
2.
Number of principal owners provided by applicant; verification of number of principal owners.
The financial institution may rely on statements or information provided by the applicant in collecting and reporting the number of the applicant's principal owners. However, pursuant to § 1002.107(b), if the financial institution verifies the number of principal owners provided by the applicant, it must report the verified information.
3.
Number of principal owners not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c), a financial institution shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data, which includes the number of principal owners of the applicant. However, if a financial institution is nonetheless unable to collect or otherwise determine the applicant's number of principal owners, the financial institution reports that the number of principal owners is “not provided by applicant and otherwise undetermined.”

# 107(b) Reliance on and Verification of Applicant-Provided Data
1.
Reliance on information provided by an applicant or appropriate third-party sources.
A financial institution may rely on statements made by an applicant (whether made in writing or orally) or information provided by an applicant when compiling and reporting data pursuant to subpart B of this part for applicant-provided data; the financial institution is not required to verify those statements or that information. However, if the financial institution does verify applicant statements or information for its own business purposes, such as statements relating to gross annual
revenue or time in business, the financial institution reports the verified information. Depending on the circumstances and the financial institution's procedures, certain applicant-provided data can be collected from appropriate third-party sources without a specific request from the applicant, and such information may also be relied on. For example, gross annual revenue or NAICS code may be collected from tax return documents; a financial institution may also collect an applicant's NAICS code using third-party sources such as business information products. Applicant-provided data are the data that are or could be provided by the applicant, including § 1002.107(a)(5) through (7) and (13) through (20). See comment 107(c)(1)-3. In regard to restrictions on verification of minority-owned, women-owned, and LGBTQI+-owned business statuses, and principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex, see comments 107(a)(18)-9 and 107(a)(19)-9.

# 107(c) Time and Manner of Collection

# 107(c)(1) In General
1.
Procedures.
The term “procedures” refers to the actual practices followed by a financial institution as well as its stated procedures. For example, if a financial institution's stated procedure is to collect applicant-provided data on or with a paper application form, but employees encourage applicants to skip the page that asks whether the applicant is a minority-owned business, a women-owned business, or an LGBTQI+-owned business under § 1002.107(a)(18), the financial institution's procedures are not reasonably designed to obtain a response.
2. Latitude to design procedures.
A financial institution has flexibility to establish procedures concerning the timing and manner in which it collects applicant-provided data that work best for its particular lending model and product offerings, provided those procedures are reasonably designed to collect the applicant-provided data in § 1002.107(a), as required pursuant to § 1002.107(c)(1), and where applicable comply with the minimum requirements set forth in § 1002.107(c)(2).
3.
Applicant-provided data.
Applicant-provided data are the data that are or could be provided by the applicant, including § 1002.107(a)(5) (credit type), § 1002.107(a)(6) (credit purpose), § 1002.107(a)(7) (amount applied for), § 1002.107(a)(13) (address or location for purposes of determining census tract), § 1002.107(a)(14) (gross annual revenue), § 1002.107(a)(15) (NAICS code, or information about the business such that the financial institution can determine the applicant's NAICS code), § 1002.107(a)(16) (number of workers), § 1002.107(a)(17) (time in business), § 1002.107(a)(18) (minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, and LGBTQI+-owned business status), § 1002.107(a)(19) (ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners), and § 1002.107(a)(20) (number of principal owners). Applicant-provided data do not include data that are generated or supplied only by the financial institution, including § 1002.107(a)(1) (unique identifier), § 1002.107(a)(2) (application date), § 1002.107(a)(3) (application method), § 1002.107(a)(4) (application recipient), § 1002.107(a)(8) (amount approved or originated), § 1002.107(a)(9) (action taken), § 1002.107(a)(10) (action taken date), § 1002.107(a)(11) (denial reasons), § 1002.107(a)(12) (pricing information), and § 1002.107(a)(13) (census tract, based on address or location provided by the applicant).
4.
Collecting applicant-provided data without a direct request to the applicant.
Depending on the circumstances and the financial institution's procedures, certain applicant-provided data can be collected without a direct request to the applicant. For example, credit type may be collected based on the type of product chosen by the applicant. Similarly, a financial institution may rely on appropriate third-party sources to collect certain applicant-provided data. See § 1002.107(b) concerning the use of third-party sources.
5.
Data updated by the applicant.
A financial institution reports updated data if it obtains more current data from the applicant during the application process. For example, if an applicant states its gross annual revenue for the preceding fiscal year was $3 million, but then the applicant notifies the financial institution that its revenue in the preceding fiscal year was actually $3.2 million, the financial institution reports gross annual revenue of $3.2 million. For reporting verified applicant-provided data, see § 1002.107(b) and comment 107(b)-1. If a financial institution has already verified data and then the applicant updates it, the financial institution reports the information it believes to be more accurate, in its discretion. If a financial institution receives updates from the applicant after the application process has closed (for example, after closing or account opening), the financial institution may, at its discretion, update the data at any time prior to reporting the covered application to the Bureau.

# 107(c)(2) Applicant-Provided Data Collected Directly From the Applicant
1.
In general.
Whether a financial institution's procedures are reasonably designed to collect applicant-provided data is a fact-based determination and may depend on the financial institution's particular lending model, product offerings, and other circumstances; procedures that are reasonably designed to obtain a response may therefore require additional provisions beyond the minimum criteria set forth in § 1002.107(c)(2). In general, reasonably designed procedures
will seek to maximize collection of applicant-provided data and minimize missing or erroneous data. While the requirements of § 1002.107(c)(2) do not apply to applicant-provided data that a financial institution obtains without a direct request to the applicant, as explained in comment 107(c)(1)-4, in such instances, a covered financial institution must still comply with § 1002.107(c)(1).
2.
Specific components.
i.
Timing of initial collection attempt.
While a financial institution has some flexibility concerning when applicant-provided data is are collected, under no circumstances may the initial request for applicant-provided data occur simultaneous with or after notifying an applicant of final action taken on a covered application. Generally, the earlier in the application process the financial institution initially seeks to collect applicant-provided data, the more likely the timing of collection is reasonably designed to obtain a response.
ii.
The request for applicant-provided data is prominently displayed or presented.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c)(2)(ii), a financial institution must ensure an applicant actually sees, hears, or is otherwise presented with the request for applicant-provided data. If an applicant is likely to overlook or miss a request for applicant-provided data, the financial institution does not have reasonably designed procedures. Similarly, a financial institution also does not have reasonably designed procedures if it obscures, prevents, or inhibits an applicant from accessing or reviewing a request for applicant-provided data.
iii.
The collection does not have the effect of discouraging an applicant from responding to a request for applicant-provided data.
A. A covered financial institution avoids discouraging a response by, for example, communicating to the applicant that the collection of applicant-provided data is worthy of the applicant's attention or is as important as information collected in connection with the financial institution's creditworthiness determination. In contrast, a covered financial institution that collects applicant-provided data in a time or manner that directly or indirectly discourages or obstructs an applicant from responding or providing a particular response violates § 1002.107(c)(2)(iii). For example, a financial institution may not discourage a response to inquiries regarding the demographic data pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) by communicating to the applicant that the request is unimportant, encouraging the applicant to bypass the form altogether, or attempting to influence or alter the applicant's preferred response.
B. A covered financial institution also avoids discouraging a response by requiring an applicant to provide a response to one or more requests for applicant-provided data in order to proceed with a covered application, including, as applicable, a response of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar. (As described in comments 107(a)(18)-1 and 107(a)(19)-1, a financial institution must permit an applicant to decline to provide the demographic data required by § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), which can be satisfied by providing a response option of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar.) For example, in an electronic application, a financial institution may require the applicant to either make a substantive selection about a principal owner's ethnicity, race, or sex, select an option of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar, or indicate there are no principal owners before allowing the applicant to proceed to the next page of requested information.
iv.
The applicant can easily provide a response.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(c)(2)(iv), a financial institution must structure the request for information in a manner that makes it easy for the applicant to provide a response. For example, a financial institution requests applicant-provided data in the same format as other information required for the covered application, provides applicants multiple methods to provide or return applicant-provided data (for example, on a written form, through a web portal, or through other means), or provides the applicant some other type of straightforward and seamless method to provide a response. Conversely, a financial institution must avoid imposing unnecessary burden on an applicant to provide the information requested or requiring the applicant to take steps that are inconsistent with the rest of its application process. For example, a financial institution does not have reasonably designed procedures if it collects application information related to its own creditworthiness determination in electronic form, but mails a paper form to the applicant initially seeking the data required under § 1002.107(a) that the financial institution does not otherwise need for its creditworthiness determination and requiring the applicant to mail it back. On the other hand, a financial institution complies with § 1002.107(c)(2)(iv) if, at its discretion, it requests the applicant to respond to inquiries made pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) through a reasonable method intended to keep the applicant's responses discrete and protected from view.
v.
Multiple requests for applicant-provided data.
A financial institution is permitted, but not required, to make more than one attempt to obtain applicant-provided data if the applicant does not respond to an initial request. For example, if an applicant initially does not respond when asked early in the application process (before notifying the applicant of final action taken on the application, pursuant to § 1002.107(c)(2)(i)) to inquiries made pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and
(19), a financial institution may request this information again, for example, during a subsequent in-person meeting with the applicant or after notifying the applicant of final action taken on the covered application.

# 107(c)(3) Procedures To Monitor Compliance
1.
Procedures to identify and respond to indicia of potential discouragement, including low response rates.
Section 1002.107(c)(3) requires a covered financial institution to maintain procedures designed to identify and respond to indicia of potential discouragement, including low response rates for applicant-provided data. In general, these include monitoring for low response rates (
i.e.,
the percentage of covered applications for which the financial institution has obtained some type of response to requests for applicant-provided data, including, as applicable, an applicant response of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar); monitoring for significant irregularities in any particular response that may indicate steering, improper interference, or other potential discouragement or obstruction of applicants' preferred responses; monitoring response rates and responses by division, location, loan officer, or other factors to ensure that no discouragement or improper conduct is occurring in some parts of a financial institution, even if the financial institution maintains adequate response rates and responses overall; providing adequate training to loan officers and other persons involved in collecting applicant-provided data; promptly investigating any indicia of potential discouragement; and taking prompt remedial action if discouragement or other improper conduct is identified.

# 107(c)(4) Low Response Rates
1.
In general.
A low response rate for applicant-provided data may indicate that the financial institution has engaged in discouragement or otherwise failed to maintain reasonably designed procedures. Response rate generally refers to whether the financial institution has obtained some type of response to requests for applicant-provided data (including, as applicable, an applicant response of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar). A response rate may be measured, as appropriate, as compared to financial institutions of a similar size, type, and/or geographic reach, or other factors, as appropriate. Similarly, significant irregularities in a particular response (for example, very high rates of an applicant response of “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar) may also indicate that a financial institution does not have reasonably designed procedures, for example, because of steering, improper interference, or other potential discouragement or obstruction of applicants' preferred responses. Response rates may be relevant across all applicant-provided data, though are particularly relevant for the collection of the demographic data pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) given the heightened sensitivity of these inquiries and the importance of those data to the purposes of subpart B.

# 107(d) Previously Collected Data
1.
In general.
A financial institution may, for the purpose of reporting such data pursuant to § 1002.109, reuse certain previously collected data if the requirements of § 1002.107(d) are met. In that circumstance, a financial institution need not seek to collect the data anew in connection with a subsequent covered application to satisfy the requirements of this subpart. For example, if an applicant applies for and is granted a term loan, and then subsequently applies for a credit card in the same calendar year, the financial institution need not request again the data specified in § 1002.107(d). Similarly, if an applicant applies for more than one covered credit transaction at one time, a financial institution need only ask once for the data specified in § 1002.107(d).
2.
Data that can be reused.
Subject to the requirements of § 1002.107(d), a financial institution may reuse the following data: § 1002.107(a)(13) (address or location for purposes of determining census tract), § 1002.107(a)(14) (gross annual revenue) (subject to comment 107(d)-7), § 1002.107(a)(15) (NAICS code), § 1002.107(a)(16) (number of workers), § 1002.107(a)(17) (time in business) (subject to comment 107(d)-8), § 1002.107(a)(18) (minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, and LGBTQI+-owned business status) (subject to comment 107(d)-9), § 1002.107(a)(19) (ethnicity, race, and sex of applicant's principal owners) (subject to comment 107(d)-9), and § 1002.107(a)(20) (number of principal owners). A financial institution is not, however, permitted to reuse other data, such as § 1002.107(a)(6) (credit purpose).
3.
Previously reported data without a substantive response.
Data have not been “previously collected” within the meaning of § 1002.107(d) if the applicant did not provide a substantive response to the financial institution's request for that data and the financial institution was not otherwise able to obtain the requested data (for example, from the applicant's credit report, or tax returns).
4.
Updated data.
If, after the application process has closed on a prior covered application, a financial institution obtains updated information relevant to the data required to be collected and reported pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(13) through (20), and the applicant subsequently submits a new covered application, the financial institution must use the updated information in connection with the new covered application (if the requirements of § 1002.107(d) are otherwise met) or
seek to collect the data again. For example, if a business notifies a financial institution of a change of address of its sole business location, and subsequently submits a covered application within the time period specified in § 1002.107(d)(1) for reusing previously collected data, the financial institution must report census tract based on the updated information. In that circumstance, the financial institution may still reuse other previously collected data to satisfy § 1002.107(a)(14) through (20) if the requirements of § 1002.107(d) are met.
5.
Collection within the preceding 36 months.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(d)(1), data can be reused to satisfy § 1002.107(a)(13) and (15) through (20) if they are collected within the preceding 36 months. A financial institution may measure the 36-month period from the date of final action taken (§ 1002.107(a)(9)) on a prior application to the application date (§ 1002.107(a)(2)) on a subsequent application. For example, if a financial institution takes final action on an application on February 1, 2025, it may reuse certain previously collected data pursuant to § 1002.107(d)(1) for subsequent covered applications dated or received by the financial institution through January 31, 2028.
6.
Reason to believe data are inaccurate.
Whether a financial institution has reason to believe data are inaccurate pursuant to § 1002.107(d)(2) depends on the particular facts and circumstances. For example, a financial institution may have reason to believe data on the applicant's minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, and LGBTQI+-owned business status may be inaccurate if it knows that the applicant has had a change in ownership or a change in an owner's percentage of ownership.
7.
Collection of gross annual revenue in the same calendar year.
Pursuant to § 1002.107(d)(1), gross annual revenue information can be reused to satisfy § 1002.107(a)(14) provided it is collected in the same calendar year as the current covered application, as measured from the application date. For example, if an application is received and gross annual revenue is collected in connection with a covered application in one calendar year, but then final action was taken on the application in the following calendar year, the data may only be reused for the calendar year in which it was collected and not the calendar year in which final action was taken on the application. However, if an application is received and gross annual revenue is collected in connection with a covered application in one calendar year, a financial institution may reuse that data pursuant to § 1002.107(d) in a subsequent application initiated in the same calendar year, even if final action was taken on the subsequent application in the following calendar year.
8.
Time in business.
A financial institution that decides to reuse previously collected data to satisfy § 1002.107(a)(17) (time in business) must update the data to reflect the passage of time since the data were collected. If a financial institution only knows that the applicant had been in business less than two years at the time the data was initially collected, as described in comment 107(a)(17)-1.ii or iii, it updates the data based on the assumption that the applicant had been in business for 12 months at the time of the prior collection. For example:
i. If a financial institution previously collected data on a prior covered application that the applicant has been in business for four years, and then seeks to reuse that data for a subsequent covered application submitted one year later, it must update the data to reflect that the applicant has been in business for five years.
ii. If a financial institution previously collected data on a prior covered application that the applicant had been in business less than two years (and was not aware of the business's actual length of time in business at the time), and then seeks to reuse that data for a subsequent covered application submitted 18 months later, the financial institution reports time in business on the subsequent covered application as over two years in business.
9.
Minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, LGBTQI+-owned business status, and principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex.
A financial institution may not reuse data to satisfy § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) unless the data were collected in connection with a prior covered application pursuant to this subpart B. If the financial institution previously asked the applicant to provide its minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, and LGBTQI+-owned business status, and principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex for purposes of § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), and the applicant declined to provide the information (such as by selecting “I do not wish to provide this information” or similar on a data collection form or by telling the financial institution that it did not wish to provide the information), the financial institution may use that response when reporting data for a subsequent application pursuant to § 1002.107(d). However, if the applicant failed to respond (such as by leaving the response to the question blank or by failing to return a data collection form), the financial institution must inquire about the applicant's minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, LGBTQI+-owned business status, and principal owners' ethnicity, race, or sex, as applicable, in connection with a subsequent application because the data were not previously obtained. See also comment 107(a)(19)-11 concerning previously collected ethnicity, race, and sex information.

# Section 1002.108—Firewall

# 108(a) Definitions
1.
Involved in making any determination concerning a covered application from a small business.
i.
General.
An employee or officer is involved in making a determination concerning a covered application from a small business for purposes of § 1002.108 if the employee or officer makes, or otherwise participates in, a decision regarding the evaluation of a covered application from a small business or the creditworthiness of a small business applicant for a covered credit transaction. This includes, but is not limited to, employees and officers serving as underwriters. The decision that an employee or officer makes or participates in must be about a specific covered application or about the creditworthiness of a specific applicant. An employee or officer is not involved in making a determination concerning a covered application if the employee or officer is only involved in making a decision that affects covered applications generally, or if the employee or officer only interacts with small businesses prior to them becoming applicants or submitting an application. An employee or officer may be participating in a determination concerning a covered application even if the employee or officer is not the ultimate decision maker or the sole decision maker. For example, an employee participates in a determination concerning a covered application if the employee recommends that another employee or officer approve or deny the application. Similarly, an employee or officer participates in a determination concerning a covered application if the employee or officer is part of a larger group, such as a committee, that makes a determination concerning a covered application. For example, an employee participates in a decision if the employee is a member of a committee that approves the terms offered to an applicant for a covered application. This is true even if the employee does not support the committee's ultimate decision regarding the terms offered. Conversely, an employee or officer does not participate in a determination concerning a covered application if the employee or officer only performs ministerial functions for the committee, such as recording the minutes, or if the committee does not make a determination concerning a specific covered application.
ii.
Examples of activities that do not constitute being involved in making a determination concerning a covered application from a small business.
The following are examples of activities that do not constitute being involved in making a determination concerning a covered application:
A. Developing policies and procedures, designing or programming computer or other systems, or conducting marketing.
B. Discussing credit products, loan terms, or loan requirements with a small business before it submits a covered application.
C. Making or participating in a decision after the financial institution has taken final action on the covered application, such as a decision about servicing or collecting a covered credit transaction.
D. Using a check box form to confirm whether an applicant has submitted all necessary documents or handling a minor or clerical matter during the application process, such as suggesting or selecting a time for an appointment with an applicant.
E. Gathering information (including information collected pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19)) and forwarding the information or a covered application to other individuals or entities.
F. Reviewing previously collected data to determine if it can be reused for a later covered application pursuant to § 1002.107(d).
iii.
Examples of activities that constitute being involved in making a determination concerning a covered application from a small business.
The following are examples of activities (done individually or as part of a group) that constitute being involved in making a determination concerning a covered application:
A. Making or participating in a decision to approve or deny a specific covered application. This includes, but is not limited to, making or participating in a decision that an applicant does not satisfy one or more of the requirements for the covered credit transaction for which it has applied.
B. Making or participating in a decision regarding the reason(s) for denial of a covered application.
C. Making or participating in a decision that a guarantor or collateral is required in order to approve a specific covered application.
D. Making or participating in a decision regarding the credit amount or credit limit that will be approved for a specific covered application.
E. Making or participating in a decision to set one or more of the other terms that will be offered for a specific covered credit transaction. This includes, but is not limited to, making or participating in a decision regarding the interest rate, the loan term, or the payment schedule that will be offered for a specific covered credit transaction.
F. Making or participating in a decision regarding a counteroffer made to a specific applicant, including a decision regarding the terms of such a counteroffer.
G. Recommending that another decision maker approve or deny a specific covered application, provide a specific reason for denying a covered application, require a guarantor or collateral in order to approve a covered application, approve a credit amount or credit limit for a covered credit transaction, set one or more other terms for a covered
credit transaction, make a counteroffer regarding a covered application, or set a specific term for such a counteroffer.
2.
Should have access.
i.
General.
A financial institution may determine that an employee or officer who is involved in making a determination concerning a covered application from a small business should have access to information otherwise subject to the prohibition in § 1002.108(b) if that employee or officer is assigned one or more job duties that may require the employee or officer to collect, see, consider, refer to, or otherwise use information subject to the prohibition in § 1002.108(b). If the employee or officer might need to collect, see, consider, refer to, or use such information to perform the employee's or officer's assigned job duties, the financial institution may determine that the employee or officer should have access. For example, if a loan officer is involved in making a determination concerning a covered application and that loan officer's job description or the financial institution's policies and procedures state that the loan officer may need to collect information pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19), the financial institution may determine that the loan officer should have access.
ii.
When a group of employees or officers should have access.
A financial institution may determine that all employees or officers with the same job description or assigned duties should have access for purposes of § 1002.108. For example, if a job description, a policy, a procedure, or another document states that a loan officer may have to collect or explain any part of a data collection form that includes the inquiries described in § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), the financial institution may determine that all employees and officers who have been assigned the position of loan officer should have access for purposes of § 1002.108.
iii.
Making a determination regarding who should have access.
A financial institution is permitted to choose what lawful factors it will consider when determining whether an employee or officer should have access. A financial institution's determination that an employee or officer should have access may take into account relevant operational factors and lawful business practices. For example, a financial institution may consider its size, the number of employees and officers within the relevant line of business or at a particular branch or office location, and/or the number of covered applications the financial institution has received or expects to receive. Additionally, a financial institution may consider its current or its reasonably anticipated staffing levels, operations, systems, processes, policies, and procedures. A financial institution is not required to hire additional staff, upgrade its systems, change its lending or operational processes, or revise its policies or procedures for the sole purpose of limiting who should have access.

# 108(b) Prohibition on Access to Certain Information
1.
Scope of persons subject to the prohibition.
The prohibition in § 1002.108(b) applies to an employee or officer of a covered financial institution or its affiliate if the employee or officer is involved in making any determination concerning a covered application from a small business. For example, if a financial institution is affiliated with company B and an employee of company B is involved in making a determination concerning a covered application on behalf of the financial institution, then the financial institution must comply with § 1002.108 with regard to company B's employee. Section 1002.108 does not require a financial institution to limit the access of employees and officers of third parties who are not affiliates of the financial institution.
2.
Scope of information that cannot be accessed when the prohibition applies to an employee or officer.
i.
Information that cannot be accessed when the prohibition applies.
If a particular employee or officer is involved in making a determination concerning a covered application from a small business, the prohibition in § 1002.108(b) only limits that employee's or officer's access to that small business applicant's responses to the inquiries that the covered financial institution makes to satisfy § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19). For example, if a financial institution uses a paper data collection form to request information pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), an employee or officer that is subject to the prohibition is not permitted access to the paper data collection form that contains the applicant's responses to the inquiries made pursuant to pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), or to any other record that identifies how the particular applicant responded to those inquires. Similarly, if a financial institution makes the inquiries required pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) during a telephone call, the prohibition applies to the applicant's responses to those inquiries provided during that telephone call and to any record that identifies how the particular applicant responded to those inquiries.
ii.
Information that can be accessed when the prohibition applies.
If a particular employee or officer is involved in making a determination concerning a covered application, the prohibition in § 1002.108(b) does not limit that employee's or officer's access to an applicant's responses to inquiries regarding whether the applicant is a minority-owned, women-owned, or LGBTQI+-owned business, or principal owners' ethnicity, race, or sex, made for purposes other than compliance with § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19). Thus, for example, an employee or officer who is subject to
the prohibition in § 1002.108(b) may have access to information regarding whether an applicant is eligible for a Small Business Administration program for women-owned businesses without regard to whether the exception in § 1002.108(c) is satisfied. Additionally, an employee or officer who knows that an applicant is a minority-owned business, women-owned business, or LGBTQI+-owned business, or who knows the ethnicity, race, or sex of any of the applicant's principal owners due to activities unrelated to the inquiries made to satisfy the financial institution's obligations under § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) is not prohibited from making a determination concerning the applicant's covered application. Thus, an employee or officer who knows, for example, that an applicant is a minority-owned business due to a social relationship or another professional relationship with the applicant or any of its principal owners may make determinations concerning the applicant's covered application. Furthermore, an employee or officer that is involved in making a determination concerning a covered application may see, consider, refer to, or use data collected to satisfy aspects of § 1002.107 other than § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19), such as gross annual revenue, number of workers, and time in business.

# 108(c) Exception to the Prohibition on Access to Certain Information
1.
General.
A financial institution is not required to limit the access of an employee or officer who is involved in making determinations concerning a covered application from a small business if the financial institution determines that the particular employee or officer should have access to the information collected pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19), and the financial institution provides the notice required by § 1002.108(d). A financial institution is not required to perform a separate analysis of the feasibility of maintaining a firewall. A determination that an employee or officer should have access means that it is not feasible to maintain a firewall as to that particular employee or officer, and the exception applies to that employee or officer if the financial institution provides the notice required by § 1002.108(d). However, the fact that a financial institution has made a determination that an employee or officer should have access does not mean that the financial institution can permit other employees and officers who are involved in making determinations concerning a covered application to have access to the information collected pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19). A financial institution may only permit an employee or officer who is involved in making a determination concerning a covered application to have access to information collected pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) if it has determined that employee or officer or a group of which the employee or officer is a member should have access to the information.
2.
Applying the exception to a specific employee or officer or group of similarly situated employees or officers.
The exception applies to an employee or officer if the financial institution determines that the employee or officer should have access to the information collected pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19), and the financial institution provides the notice required by § 1002.108(d). A financial institution can also determine that several employees and officers should have access, that all of a group of similarly situated employees or officers should have access, and that multiple groups of similarly situated employees or officers should have access to information collected pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19). See also comment 108(a)-2. For example, a financial institution could determine that all its small business loan officers, small business loan processors, compliance officers, and legal officers should have access. If the financial institution provides the notice required in § 1002.108(d), the financial institution may permit all of its small business loan officers, small business loan processors, compliance officers, and legal officers to have access. However, the financial institution cannot permit other employees and officers to have access simply because it has determined that the small business loan officers, loan processors, compliance officers, and legal officers should have access. For example, in this case, the financial institution may not permit its underwriters or chief executive officer to have access to the information collected from the applicant pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19) if they are involved in making any determination concerning a covered application, unless the financial institution also determines that they should have access. This would be true even if the chief executive officer or underwriter had some of the same assigned duties as a loan officer, such as being a member of a credit committee, but has not been assigned the task(s) that may require access to one or more applicants' responses to the financial institution's inquiries under § 1002.107(a)(18) or (19). If the financial institution separately determines that underwriters and the chief executive officer should have access, then the underwriters and chief executive officer may also have access.

# 108(d) Notice
1.
General.
If a financial institution determines that one or more employees or officers should have access pursuant to § 1002.108(c), the financial institution must provide the required notice to, at a minimum, the applicant or applicants whose responses will be accessed by an employee or officer involved
in making determinations concerning the applicant's or applicants' covered applications. Alternatively, a financial institution may also provide the required notice to applicants whose responses will not or might not be accessed. For example, a financial institution could provide the notice to all applicants for covered credit transactions or all applicants for a specific type of product.
2.
Content of the required notice.
The notice must inform the applicant that one or more employees and officers involved in making determinations concerning the applicant's covered application may have access to the applicant's responses regarding the applicant's minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, LGBTQI+-owned business status, and its principal owners' ethnicity, race, and sex. See the sample data collection form in appendix E to this part for sample language for providing this notice to applicants. If a financial institution establishes and maintains a firewall and chooses to use the sample data collection form, the financial institution can delete this sample language from the form.
3.
Timing for providing the notice.
If the financial institution is providing the notice orally, it must provide the notice required by § 1002.108(d) prior to asking the applicant if it is a minority-owned business, women-owned business, or LGBTQI+-owned business and prior to asking for a principal owner's ethnicity, race, or sex. If the notice is provided on the same paper or electronic data collection form as the inquiries about minority-owned business status, women-owned business status, LGBTQI+-owned business status and the principal owners' ethnicity, race, or sex, the notice must appear before the inquiries. If the notice is provided in an electronic or paper document that is separate from the data collection form, the notice must be provided at the same time as the data collection form or prior to providing the data collection form. Additionally, the notice must be provided with the non-discrimination notices required pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19). See appendix E for sample language.

# Section 1002.109—Reporting of Data to the Bureau

# 109(a) Reporting to the Bureau

# 109(a)(2) Reporting by Subsidiaries
1.
Subsidiaries.
A covered financial institution is considered a subsidiary of another covered financial institution for purposes of reporting data pursuant to § 1002.109 if more than 50 percent of the ownership or control of the first covered financial institution is held by the second covered financial institution.

# 109(a)(3) Reporting Obligations Where Multiple Financial Institutions Are Involved in a Covered Credit Transaction
1.
General.
The following clarifies how to report applications involving more than one financial institution. The discussion below assumes that all parties involved with the covered credit transaction are covered financial institutions. However, the same principles apply if any party is not a covered financial institution.
i. A financial institution shall report the action that it takes on a covered application, whether or not the covered credit transaction closed in the financial institution's name and even if the financial institution used underwriting criteria supplied by another financial institution. However, where it is necessary for more than one financial institution to make a credit decision in order to approve a single covered credit transaction, only the last financial institution with authority to set the material terms of the covered credit transaction is required to report. Setting the material terms of the covered credit transaction include, for example, selecting among competing offers, or modifying pricing information, amount approved or originated, or repayment duration. In this situation, the determinative factor is not which financial institution actually made the last credit decision prior to closing, but rather which financial institution last had the authority for setting the material terms of the covered credit transaction prior to closing. Whether a financial institution has taken action for purposes of § 1002.109(a)(3) and comment 109(a)(3)-1 is not relevant to, and is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or interfere with, section 701(d) (15 U.S.C. 1691(d)) of the Act, § 1002.9, or any other provision within subpart A of this Regulation.
ii. A financial institution takes action on a covered application for purposes of § 1002.109(a)(3) if it denies the application, originates the application, approves the application but the applicant did not accept the transaction, or closes the file or denies for incompleteness. The financial institution must also report the application if it was withdrawn. For reporting purposes, it is not relevant whether the financial institution receives the application directly from the applicant or indirectly through another party, such as a broker, or (except as otherwise provided in comment 109(a)(3)-1.i) whether another financial institution also reviews and reports an action taken on a covered application involving the same credit transaction.
iii. Where it is necessary for more than one financial institution to make a credit decision in order to approve a single covered credit transaction and where more than one financial institution denies the application
or otherwise does not approve the application, the reporting financial institution (the last financial institution with authority to set the material terms of the covered credit transaction) shall have a consistent procedure for determining how it reports inconsistent or differing data points for purposes of subpart B. For example, Financial Institution A is the reporting entity because it has the last authority to set the material credit terms. Financial Institution A sends the application to Financial Institution B and Financial Institution C for review, but both Financial Institution B and Financial Institution C deny the application, with different denial reasons. Based on these denials, Financial Institution A follows suit and denies the application. Financial Institution A must have a consistent procedure for what denial reason(s) to report, such as reporting the denial reason(s) from the first financial institution that denied the covered application.
2.
Examples.
The following scenarios illustrate how a financial institution reports a particular covered application. The illustrations assume that all parties involved with the covered credit transaction are covered financial institutions. However, the same principles apply if any party is not a covered financial institution. Examples i through iv involve a single financial institution with responsibility for making a credit decision without the involvement of an intermediary. Example v describes a financial institution intermediary with only passive involvement in the covered credit transaction. Example vi describes a transaction where multiple financial institutions independently decision and take action on a covered application. Examples vii and viii describe situations where more than one financial institution must make a credit decision in order to approve the covered credit transaction. Examples ix and x describe situations involving pooled and participation interests.
i. Financial Institution A received a covered application from an applicant and approved the application before closing the covered credit transaction in its name. Financial Institution A was not acting as Financial Institution B's agent. Financial Institution B later purchased the covered credit transaction from Financial Institution A. Financial Institution A was not acting as Financial Institution B's agent. Financial Institution A reports the application. Financial Institution B has no reporting obligation for this transaction.
ii. Financial Institution A received a covered application from an applicant. If approved, the covered credit transaction would have closed in Financial Institution B's name. Financial Institution A denied the application without sending it to Financial Institution B for approval. Financial Institution A was not acting as Financial Institution B's agent. Since Financial Institution A took action on the application, Financial Institution A reports the application as denied. Financial Institution B does not report the application.
iii. Financial Institution A reviewed a covered application and made a credit decision to approve it using the underwriting criteria provided by a Financial Institution B. Financial Institution B did not review the application and did not make a credit decision prior to closing. Financial Institution A was not acting as Financial Institution B's agent. Financial Institution A reports the application. Financial Institution B has no reporting obligation for this application.
iv. Financial Institution A reviewed and made the credit decision on a covered application based on the criteria of a third-party insurer or guarantor (for example, a government or private insurer or guarantor). Financial Institution A reports the action taken on the application.
v. Financial Institution A received a covered application from an applicant and forwarded that application to Financial Institution B. Financial Institution B reviewed the application and made a credit decision approving the application prior to closing. The covered credit transaction closed in Financial Institution A's name. Financial Institution B purchased the covered credit transaction from Financial Institution A after closing. Financial Institution B was not acting as Financial Institution A's agent. Since Financial Institution B made the credit decision prior to closing, and Financial Institution A's approval was not necessary for the credit transaction, Financial Institution B reports the origination. Financial Institution A does not report the application. Assume the same facts, except that Financial Institution B reviewed the application before the covered credit transaction would have closed, but Financial Institution B denied the application. Financial Institution B reports the application as denied. Financial Institution A does not report the application because it did not take an action on the application. If, under the same facts, the application was withdrawn before Financial Institution B made a credit decision, Financial Institution B would report the application as withdrawn and Financial Institution A would not report the application for the same reason.
vi. Financial Institution A received a covered application and forwarded it to Financial Institutions B and C. Financial Institution A made a credit decision, acting as Financial Institution D's agent, and approved the application. Financial Institutions B and C are not working together with Financial Institutions A or D, or with each other, and are solely responsible for setting the terms of their own credit transactions. Financial
Institution B made a credit decision approving the application, and Financial Institution C made a credit decision denying the application. The applicant did not accept the covered credit transaction from Financial Institution D. Financial Institution D reports the application as approved but not accepted. Financial Institution A does not report the application, because it was acting as Financial Institution D's agent. The applicant accepted the offer of credit from Financial Institution B, and credit was extended. Financial Institution B reports the application as originated. Financial Institution C reports the application as denied.
vii. Financial Institution A received a covered application and made a credit decision to approve it using the underwriting criteria provided by Financial Institution B. Financial Institution A was not acting as Financial Institution B's agent. Financial Institution A forwarded the application to Financial Institution B. Financial Institution B reviewed the application and made a credit decision approving the application prior to closing. Financial Institution A makes a credit decision on the application and modifies the credit terms (the interest rate and repayment term) offered by Financial Institution B. The covered credit transaction reflecting the modified terms closes in Financial Institution A's name. Financial Institution B purchases the covered credit transaction from Financial Institution A after closing. As the last financial institution with the authority for setting the material terms of the covered credit transaction, Financial Institution A reports the application as originated. Financial Institution B does not report the origination because it was not the last financial institution with the authority to set the material terms on the application. If, under the same facts, Financial Institution A did not modify the credit terms offered by Financial Institution B, Financial Institution A still reports the application as originated because it was still the last financial institution with the authority for setting the material terms, even if it chose not to so do in a particular instance. Financial Institution B does not report the origination.
viii. Financial Institution A received a covered application and forwarded it to Financial Institutions B, C, and D. Financial Institution A was not acting as anyone's agent. Financial Institution B and C reviewed the application and made a credit decision approving the application and Financial Institution D reviewed the application and made a credit decision denying the application. Prior to closing, Financial Institution A makes a credit decision on the application by deciding to offer to the applicant the credit terms offered by Financial Institution B and does not convey to the applicant the credit terms offered by Financial Institution C. The applicant does not accept the covered credit transaction. As the last financial institution with the authority for setting the material terms of the covered credit transaction, Financial Institution A reports the application as approved but not accepted. Financial Institutions B, C, and D do not report the application because they were not the last financial institution with the authority for setting the material terms of the covered credit transaction. Assume the same facts, except the applicant accepts the terms of the covered credit transaction from Financial Institution B as offered by Financial Institution A. The covered credit transaction closes in Financial Institution A's name. Financial Institution B purchases the transaction after closing. Here, Financial Institution A reports the application as originated. Financial Institutions B, C, and D do not report the application because they were not the last financial institution responsible for setting the material terms of the covered credit transaction.
ix. Financial Institution A receives a covered application and approves it, and then Financial Institution A elects to organize a loan participation agreement where Financial Institutions B and C agree to purchase a partial interest in the covered credit transaction. Financial Institution A reports the application. Financial Institutions B and C have no reporting obligation for this application.
x. Financial Institution A purchases an interest in a pool of covered credit transactions, such as credit-backed securities or real estate investment conduits. Financial Institution A does not report this purchase.
3.
Agents.
If a covered financial institution takes action on a covered application through its agent, the financial institution reports the application. For example, acting as Financial Institution A's agent, Financial Institution B approved an application prior to closing and a covered credit transaction was originated. Financial Institution A reports the covered credit transaction as an origination. State law determines whether one party is the agent of another.

# 109(b) Financial Institution Identifying Information
1.
Changes to financial institution identifying information.
If a financial institution's information required pursuant to § 1002.109(b) changes, the financial institution shall provide the new information with the data submission for the collection year of the change. For example, assume two financial institutions that previously reported data under subpart B of this part merge and the surviving institution retained its Legal Entity Identifier but obtained a new TIN in February 2028. The surviving institution must report the new TIN with its data submission for its 2028 data (which is due by June 1, 2029)
pursuant to § 1002.109(b)(5). Likewise, if that financial institution's Federal prudential regulator changes in February 2028 as a result of the merger, it must identify its new Federal prudential regulator in its annual submission for its 2028 data.

# Paragraph 109(b)(4)
1.
Federal prudential regulator.
For purposes of § 1002.109(b)(4),
Federal prudential regulator
means, if applicable, the Federal prudential regulator for a financial institution that is a depository institution as determined pursuant to section 3q of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)), including the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; or the National Credit Union Administration Board for financial institutions that are Federal credit unions.

# Paragraph 109(b)(6)
1.
Legal Entity Identifier (LEI).
A Legal Entity Identifier is a utility endorsed by the LEI Regulatory oversight committee, or a utility endorsed or otherwise governed by the Global LEI Foundation (GLEIF) (or any successor of the GLEIF) after the GLEIF assumes operational governance of the global LEI system. A financial institution complies with § 1002.109(b)(6) by reporting its current LEI number. A financial institution that does not currently possess an LEI number must obtain an LEI number, and has an ongoing obligation to maintain the LEI number. The GLEIF website provides a list of LEI issuing organizations. A financial institution may obtain an LEI, for purposes of complying with § 1002.109(b)(6), from any one of the issuing organizations listed on the GLEIF website.

# Paragraph 109(b)(7)
1.
RSSD ID number.
The RSSD ID is a unique identifying number assigned to institutions, including main offices and branches, by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. A financial institution's RSSD ID may be found on the website of the National Information Center, which provides comprehensive financial and structure information on banks and other institutions for which the Federal Reserve Board has a supervisory, regulatory, or research interest including both domestic and foreign banking organizations that operate in the United States. If a financial institution does not have an RSSD ID, it reports that this information is not applicable.

# Paragraph 109(b)(8)
1.
Immediate parent entity.
An entity is the immediate parent of a financial institution for purposes of § 1002.109(b)(8)(i) through (iii) if it is a separate entity that directly owns more than 50 percent of the financial institution.
2.
Top-holding parent entity.
An entity is the top-holding parent of a financial institution for purposes of § 1002.109(b)(8)(iv) through (vi) if it ultimately owns more than 50 percent of the financial institution, and the entity itself is not controlled by any other entity. If the immediate parent entity and the top-holding parent entity are the same, the financial institution reports that § 1002.109(b)(8)(iv) through (vi) are not applicable.
3.
LEI.
For purposes of § 1002.109(b)(8)(ii) and (v), a financial institution shall report the LEI of a parent entity if the parent entity has an LEI number. If a financial institution's parent entity does not have an LEI, the financial institution reports that this information is not applicable.
4.
RSSD ID numbers.
For purposes of § 1002.109(b)(8)(iii) and § 1002.109(b)(8)(vi), a financial institution shall report the RSSD ID number of a parent entity if the entity has an RSSD ID number. If a financial institution's parent entity does not have an RSSD ID, the financial institution reports that this information is not applicable.

# Paragraph 109(b)(9)
1.
Type of financial institution.
A financial institution complies with § 1002.109(b)(9) by selecting the applicable type or types of financial institution from the list below. A financial institution shall select all applicable types.
i. Bank or savings association.
ii. Minority depository institution.
iii. Credit union.
iv. Nondepository institution.
v. Community development financial institution (CDFI).
vi. Other nonprofit financial institution.
vii. Farm Credit System institution.
viii. Government lender.
ix. Commercial finance company.
x. Equipment finance company.
xi. Industrial loan company.
xii. Online lender.
xiii. Other.
2.
Use of “other” for type of financial institution.
A financial institution reports type of financial institution as “other” where none of the enumerated types of financial institution appropriately describe the applicable type of financial institution, and the institution reports the type of financial institution via free-form text field. A financial institution that selects at least one type from the list is permitted, but not required, to also report “other” (with appropriate free-form text) if there is an additional aspect of its business that is not one of the enumerated types set out in comment 109(b)(9)-1.
3.
Additional types of financial institution.
The Bureau may add additional types of financial institutions via the Filing Instructions Guide and related materials. Refer to the Filing Instructions Guide for any updates for each reporting year.

# Paragraph 109(b)(10)
1.
Financial institutions that voluntarily report covered applications under subpart B of this part.
A financial institution that is not a covered financial institution pursuant to § 1002.105(b) but that elects to voluntarily compile, maintain, and report data under §§ 1002.107 through 1002.109 (see comment 105(b)-10) complies with § 1002.109(b)(10) by selecting “voluntary reporter.”

# Section 1002.110—Publication of Data and Other Disclosures

# 110(c) Statement of Financial Institution's Small Business Lending Data Available on the Bureau's Website
1.
Statement.
A financial institution shall provide the statement required by § 1002.110(c) using the following, or substantially similar, language:

# Small Business Lending Data Notice
Data about our small business lending are available online for review at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's (CFPB's) website at https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/small-business-lending/. The data show the geographic distribution of our small business lending applications; information about our loan approvals and denials; and demographic information about the principal owners of our small business applicants. The CFPB may delete or modify portions of our data prior to posting it if doing so would advance a privacy interest. Small business lending data for many other financial institutions are also available at this website.
2.
Website.
A financial institution without a website complies with § 1002.110(c) by making a written statement using the language in comment 110(c)-1, or substantially similar language, available upon request.
3.
Revised location for publicly available data.
The Bureau may modify the location specified in comment 110(c)-1 at which small business lending data are available via the Filing Instructions Guide and related materials. Refer to the Filing Instructions Guide for any updates for each reporting year.

# Section 1002.111—Recordkeeping

# 111(a) Record Retention
1.
Evidence of compliance.
Section 1002.111(a) requires a financial institution to retain evidence of compliance with subpart B of this part for at least three years after its small business lending application register is required to be submitted to the Bureau pursuant to § 1002.109. In addition to the financial institution's small business lending application register, such evidence of compliance is likely to include, but is not limited to, the applications for credit from which information in the register is drawn, as well as the files or documents that, under § 1002.111(b), are kept separate from the applications for credit. This three-year record retention requirement applies to any records covered by § 1002.111(a), notwithstanding the more general 12-month retention period for records related to business credit specified in § 1002.12(b).
2.
Record retention for creditors under § 1002.5(a)(4)(vii) and (viii).
A creditor that is voluntarily, under § 1002.5(a)(4)(vii) and (viii), collecting information pursuant to subpart B of this part complies with § 1002.111(a) by retaining evidence of compliance with subpart B for at least three years after June 1 of the year following the year that data was collected.

# 111(b) Certain Information Kept Separate From the Rest of the Application
1.
Separate from the application.
A financial institution may satisfy the requirement in § 1002.111(b) by keeping an applicant's responses to the financial institution's request pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) in a file or document that is discrete or distinct from the application and its accompanying information. For example, such information could be collected on a piece of paper that is separate from the rest of the application form. In order to satisfy the requirement in § 1002.111(b), an applicant's responses to the financial institution's request pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) need not be maintained in a separate electronic system, nor need they be removed from the physical files containing the application so long as there is some separation between the demographic information and the rest of the application and its accompanying information. However, the financial institution may nonetheless need to keep this information in a different electronic or physical file in order to satisfy the prohibition in § 1002.108(b).
2.
Number of principal owners.
A financial institution is permitted to maintain information regarding the applicant's number of principal owners pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(20) with an applicant's responses to the financial institution's request pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19).

# 111(c) Limitation on Personally Identifiable Information in Certain Records Retained Under This Section
1.
Small business lending application register.
The prohibition in § 1002.111(c) applies to data in the small business lending application
register submitted by the financial institution to the Bureau under § 1002.109, the version of the register that the financial institution maintains under § 1002.111(a), and the separate record of certain information created pursuant to § 1002.111(b).
2.
Examples.
Section 1002.111(c) prohibits a financial institution from including any name, specific address (other than the census tract required under § 1002.107(a)(13)), telephone number, or email address of any individual who is, or is connected with, an applicant in the small business lending application register it reports pursuant to § 1002.109, in the copy of the register the financial institution retains under § 1002.111(a), and in the records of certain information it must retain separately from the application pursuant to § 1002.111(b). It likewise prohibits a financial institution from including any other personally identifiable information concerning any individual who is, or is connected with, an applicant, except as required pursuant to § 1002.107 or § 1002.111(b). Examples of such personally identifiable information that a financial institution may not include in its small business lending application register include, but are not limited to, the following: date of birth, Social Security number, official government-issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration number, government passport number, or employer or taxpayer identification number.
3.
Other records.
The prohibition in § 1002.111(c) does not extend to an application for credit, or any other records that the financial institution maintains that are not specifically enumerated in § 1002.111(c).
4.
Name and business contact information for submission.
The prohibition in § 1002.111(c) does not bar financial institutions from providing to the Bureau, pursuant to § 1002.109(b)(3), the name and business contact information of the person who may be contacted by the Bureau or other regulators with questions about the financial institution's submission under § 1002.109.

# Section 1002.112—Enforcement

# 112(b) Bona Fide Errors
1.
Tolerances for bona fide errors.
Section 1002.112(b) provides that a financial institution is presumed to maintain procedures reasonably adapted to avoid errors with respect to a given data field if the number of errors found in a random sample of the financial institution's data submission for the data field does not equal or exceed a threshold specified by the Bureau for this purpose. The Bureau's thresholds appear in column C of the table in appendix F. The size of the random sample, set out in column B, shall depend on the size of the financial institution's small business lending application register, as shown in column A of the table in appendix F. A financial institution has not maintained procedures reasonably adapted to avoid errors if either there is a reasonable basis to believe the error was intentional or there is evidence that the financial institution has not maintained procedures reasonably adapted to avoid errors.
2.
Tolerances and data fields.
For purposes of determining whether an error is bona fide under § 1002.112(b), the term “data field” generally refers to individual fields. All required data fields, and valid response options for those fields, are set forth in the Bureau's Filing Instructions Guide, available at
https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/small-business-lending/filing-instructions-guide/
. Some data fields may allow for more than one response. For example, with respect to information on the ethnicity and race of an applicant's principal owner, a data field may identify more than one race or ethnicity. If there are one or more errors within an ethnicity data field, or within a race data field, for a particular principal owner, they would count as one (and only one) error for that data field. For instance, in the ethnicity data field, if an applicant indicates that one of its principal owners is Cuban, but the financial institution reports that the principal owner is Mexican and Puerto Rican, the financial institution has made one error in the ethnicity data field for that principal owner. For purposes of the error threshold table in appendix F, the financial institution is deemed to have made one error, not two.
3.
Tolerances and safe harbors.
An error that meets the criteria for one of the four safe harbor provisions in § 1002.112(c) is not counted as an error for purposes of determining whether a financial institution has exceeded the relevant error threshold in appendix F for a given data field.

# 112(c) Safe Harbors
1.
Information from a Federal agency—census tract.
Section 1002.112(c)(2) provides that an incorrect entry for census tract is not a violation of the Act or subpart B of this part, if the financial institution obtained the census tract using a geocoding tool provided by the FFIEC or the Bureau. However, this safe harbor provision does not extend to a financial institution's failure to provide the correct census tract number for a covered application on its small business lending application register, as required by § 1002.107(a)(13), because the FFIEC or Bureau geocoding tool did not return a census tract for the address provided by the financial institution. In addition, this safe harbor provision does not extend to a census tract error that results from a financial institution entering an inaccurate address into the FFIEC or Bureau geocoding tool.
2.
Applicability of NAICS code safe harbor.
The safe harbor in § 1002.112(c)(3) applies to an incorrect entry for the 3-digit NAICS code
that financial institutions must collect and report pursuant to § 1002.107(a)(15), provided certain conditions are met. For purposes of § 1002.112(c)(3)(i), a financial institution is permitted to rely on statements made by the applicant, information provided by the applicant, or on other information obtained through its use of appropriate third-party sources, including business information products. See also comments 107(a)(15)-4 and 107(b)-1.
3.
Incorrect determination of small business status, covered credit transaction, or covered application—examples.
Section 1002.112(c)(4) provides a safe harbor from violations of the Act or this regulation for a financial institution that initially collects data under § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) regarding whether an applicant for a covered credit transaction is a minority-owned, a women-owned, or LGBTQI+-owned business, and the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant's principal owners, but later concludes that it should not have collected this data, if certain conditions are met. Specifically, to qualify for this safe harbor, § 1002.112(c)(4) requires that the financial institution have had a reasonable basis at the time it collected data under § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) for believing that the application was a covered application for a covered credit transaction from a small business pursuant to §§ 1002.103, 1002.104, and 1002.106, respectively. For example, Financial Institution A collected data under § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19) from an applicant for a covered credit transaction that had self-reported its gross annual revenue as $4.8 million. Sometime after Financial Institution A had collected this data from the applicant, the financial institution reviewed the applicant's tax returns, which indicated the applicant's gross annual revenue was in fact $5.2 million. Financial Institution A is permitted to rely on representations made by the applicant regarding gross annual revenue in determining whether an applicant is a small business (see § 1002.107(b) and comments 106(b)(1)-3 and 107(a)(14)-1). Thus, Financial Institution A may have had a reasonable basis to believe, at the time it collected data under § 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), that the applicant was a small business pursuant to § 1002.106, in which case Financial Institution A's collection of such data would not violate the Act or this regulation.

# Section 1002.114—Effective Date, Compliance Date, and Special Transition Rules

# 114(b) Compliance Date
1.
Application of compliance date.
The applicable compliance date in § 1002.114(b) is the date by which the covered financial institution must begin to compile data as specified in § 1002.107, comply with the firewall requirements of § 1002.108, and begin to maintain records as specified in § 1002.111. In addition, the covered financial institution must comply with § 1002.110(c) and (d) no later than June 1 of the year after the applicable compliance date. For instance, if § 1002.114(b)(2) applies to a financial institution, it must comply with §§ 1002.107 and 1002.108, and portions of § 1002.111, beginning January 16, 2026, and it must comply with § 1002.110(c) and (d), and portions of § 1002.111, no later than June 1, 2027.
2.
Initial partial year collections pursuant to § 1002.114(b).
i. When the compliance date of July 18, 2025 specified in § 1002.114(b)(1) applies to a covered financial institution, the financial institution is required to collect data for covered applications during the period from July 18, 2025 to December 31, 2025. The financial institution must compile data for this period pursuant to § 1002.107, comply with the firewall requirements of § 1002.108, and maintain records as specified in § 1002.111. In addition, for data collected during this period, the covered financial institution must comply with §§ 1002.109 and 1002.110(c) and (d) by June 1, 2026.
ii. When the compliance date of January 16, 2026 specified in § 1002.114(b)(2) applies to a covered financial institution, the financial institution is required to collect data for covered applications during the period from January 16, 2026 to December 31, 2026. The financial institution must compile data for this period pursuant to § 1002.107, comply with the firewall requirements of § 1002.108, and maintain records as specified in § 1002.111. In addition, for data collected during this period, the covered financial institution must comply with §§ 1002.109 and 1002.110(c) and (d) by June 1, 2027.
iii. When the compliance date of October 18, 2026 specified in § 1002.114(b)(3) or (4) applies to a covered financial institution, the financial institution is required to collect data for covered applications during the period from October 18, 2026 to December 31, 2026. The financial institution must compile data for this period pursuant to § 1002.107, comply with the firewall requirements of § 1002.108, and maintain records as specified in § 1002.111. In addition, for data collected during this period, the covered financial institution must comply with §§ 1002.109 and 1002.110(c) and (d) by June 1, 2027.
3.
Informal names for compliance date provisions.
To facilitate discussion of the compliance dates specified in § 1002.114(b)(1), (2), and (3), in the official commentary and any other documents referring to these compliance dates, the Bureau adopts the following informal simplified names. Tier 1 refers to the cohort of covered financial institutions that have a compliance date of July 18, 2025 pursuant to § 1002.114(b)(1). Tier 2 refers to the cohort of covered financial institutions that have a compliance date of January 16, 2026 pursuant to § 1002.114(b)(2). Tier 3 refers to the cohort of covered financial institutions
that have a compliance date of October 18, 2026 pursuant to § 1002.114(b)(3).
4.
Examples.
The following scenarios illustrate how to determine whether a financial institution is a covered financial institution and which compliance date specified in § 1002.114(b) applies. Unless otherwise indicated, in each example the financial institution has chosen to use its originations in 2022 and 2023 (rather than 2023 and 2024 as permitted by § 1002.114(c)(3)) to determine its initial compliance tier.
i. Financial Institution A originated 3,000 covered credit transactions for small businesses in calendar year 2022, and 3,000 in calendar year 2023. Financial Institution A is in Tier 1 and has a compliance date of July 18, 2025.
ii. Financial Institution B originated 2,000 covered credit transactions for small businesses in calendar year 2022, and 3,000 in calendar year 2023. Because Financial Institution B did not originate at least 2,500 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is not in Tier 1. Because Financial Institution B did originate at least 500 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is in Tier 2 and has a compliance date of January 16, 2026.
iii. Financial Institution C originated 400 covered credit transactions to small businesses in calendar year 2022, and 1,000 in calendar year 2023. Because Financial Institution C did not originate at least 2,500 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is not in Tier 1, and because it did not originate at least 500 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is not in Tier 2. Because Financial Institution C did originate at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is in Tier 3 and has a compliance date of October 18, 2026.
iv. Financial Institution D originated 90 covered credit transactions to small businesses in calendar year 2022, 120 in calendar year 2023, and 90 in calendar years 2024, 2025, and 2026. Because Financial Institution D did not originate at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is not in Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3. Because Financial Institution D did not originate at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in subsequent consecutive calendar years, it is not a covered financial institution under § 1002.105(b) and is not required to comply with the rule in 2025, 2026, or 2027.
v. Financial Institution E originated 120 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of calendar years 2022, 2023, and 2024, and 90 in 2025. Because Financial Institution E did not originate at least 2,500 or 500 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is not in Tier 1 or Tier 2. Because Financial Institution E originated at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is in Tier 3 and has a compliance date of October 18, 2026. However, because Financial Institution E did not originate at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in both 2024 and 2025, it no longer satisfies the definition of a covered financial institution in § 1002.105(b) at the time of the compliance date for Tier 3 institutions and thus is not required to comply with the rule in 2026.
vi. Financial Institution F originated 90 covered credit transactions for small businesses in calendar year 2022, and 120 in 2023, 2024, and 2025. Because Financial Institution F did not originate at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is not in Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3. Because Financial Institution F originated at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in subsequent calendar years, § 1002.114(b)(4), which cross-references § 1002.105(b), applies to Financial Institution F. Because Financial Institution F originated at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2024 and 2025, it is a covered financial institution under § 1002.105(b) and is required to comply with the rule beginning October 18, 2026. Alternatively, if Financial Institution F chooses to use its originations in calendar years 2023 and 2024 to determine its compliance tier pursuant to § 1002.114(c)(3), it would be in Tier 3 and likewise required to comply with the rule beginning October 18, 2026.
vii. Financial Institution G originated 90 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of calendar years 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, and 2026, and 120 in each of 2027 and 2028. Because Financial Institution F did not originate at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it is not in Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3. Because Financial Institution G originated at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in subsequent calendar years, § 1002.114(b)(4), which cross-references § 1002.105(b), applies to Financial Institution G. Because Financial Institution G originated at least 100 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2027 and 2028, it is a covered financial institution under § 1002.105(b) and is required to comply with the rule beginning January 1, 2029.
viii. Financial Institution H originated 550 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of calendar years 2022 and 2023, 450 in 2024, and 550 in 2025. Because Financial Institution H originated at least 500 covered credit transactions for small businesses in each of 2022 and 2023, it would be in Tier 2 and have a compliance date of January 16, 2026. However, § 1002.114(c)(3) permits financial institutions to use their originations in 2023 and 2024, rather than in 2022 and 2023, to
determine compliance tier. If Financial Institution H elects to use its originations in 2023 and 2024, it would be in Tier 3 and required to comply with the rule beginning October 18, 2026.

# 114(c) Special Transition Rules
1.
Collection of certain information prior to a financial institution's compliance date.
Notwithstanding § 1002.5(a)(4)(ix), a financial institution that chooses to collect information on covered applications as permitted by § 1002.114(c)(1) in the 12 months prior to its initial compliance date as specified in § 1002.114(b)(1), (2) or (3) need comply only with the requirements set out in §§ 1002.107(a)(18) and (19), 1002.108, and 1002.111(b) and (c) with respect to the information collected. During this 12-month period, a covered financial institution need not comply with the provisions of § 1002.107 (other than §§ 1002.107(a)(18) and (19)), 1002.109, 1002.110, 1002.111(a), or 1002.114.
2.
Transition rule for applications received prior to a compliance date but final action is taken after a compliance date.
If a covered financial institution receives a covered application from a small business prior to its initial compliance date specified in § 1002.114(b), but takes final action on or after that date, the financial institution is not required to collect data regarding that application pursuant to § 1002.107 nor to report the application pursuant to § 1002.109. For example, if a financial institution is subject to a compliance date of July 18, 2025, and it receives an application on July 7, 2025 but does not take final action on the application until July 25, 2025, the financial institution is not required to collect data pursuant to § 1002.107 nor to report data to the Bureau pursuant to § 1002.109 regarding that application.
3.
Has readily accessible the information needed to determine small business status.
A financial institution has readily accessible the information needed to determine whether its originations of covered credit transactions were for small businesses as defined in § 1002.106 if, for instance, it in the ordinary course of business collects data on the precise gross annual revenue of the businesses for which it originates loans, it obtains information sufficient to determine whether an applicant for business credit had gross annual revenues of $5 million or less, or if it collects and reports similar data to Federal or State government agencies pursuant to other laws or regulations.
4.
Does not have readily accessible the information needed to determine small business status.
A financial institution does not have readily accessible the information needed to determine whether its originations of covered credit transactions were for small businesses as defined in § 1002.106 if it did not in the ordinary course of business collect either precise or approximate information on whether the businesses to which it originated covered credit transactions had gross annual revenue of $5 million or less. In addition, even if precise or approximate information on gross annual revenue was initially collected, a financial institution does not have readily accessible this information if, to retrieve this information, for example, it must review paper loan files, recall such information from either archived paper records or scanned records in digital archives, or obtain such information from third parties that initially obtained this information but did not transmit such information to the financial institution.
5.
Reasonable method to estimate the number of originations.
The reasonable methods that financial institutions may use to estimate originations for 2022 and 2023 (or for 2023 and 2024, pursuant to § 1002.114(c)(3)) include, but are not limited to, the following:
i. A financial institution may comply with § 1002.114(c)(2) by determining the small business status of covered credit transactions by asking every applicant, prior to the closing of approved transactions, to self-report whether it had gross annual revenue for its preceding fiscal year of $5 million or less, during the period October 1 through December 31, 2023. The financial institution may annualize the number of covered credit transactions it originates to small businesses from October 1 through December 31, 2023 by quadrupling the originations for this period, and apply the annualized number of originations to both calendar years 2022 and 2023. Pursuant to § 1002.114(c)(3), a financial institution is permitted to use its originations in 2023 and 2024, rather than 2022 and 2023, to determine its compliance tier. Thus, a financial institution may ask applicants to self-report revenue information during the period of October 1 through December 31, 2024, and then may annualize the number of covered credit transactions it originated to small businesses during that period and apply the annualized number of originations to both calendar years 2023 and 2024.
ii. A financial institution may comply with § 1002.114(c)(2) by assuming that every covered credit transaction it originates for business customers in calendar years 2022 and 2023 (or in 2023 and 2024) is to a small business.
iii. A financial institution may comply with § 1002.114(c)(2) by using another methodology provided that such methodology is reasonable and documented in writing.
6.
Examples.
The following scenarios illustrate the potential application of § 1002.114(c)(2) to a financial institution's compliance date under § 1002.114(b). Unless otherwise indicated, in each example the financial institution has chosen to estimate its originations for 2022 and 2023 (rather than 2023 and 2024 as permitted by § 1002.114(c)(3)) to determine its initial compliance tier.
i. Prior to October 1, 2023, Financial Institution A did not collect gross annual revenue or other information that would allow it to determine the small business status of the businesses for whom it originated covered credit transactions in calendar years 2022 and 2023. Financial Institution A chose to use the methodology set out in comment 114(c)-5.i and as of October 1, 2023 began to collect information on gross annual revenue as defined in § 1002.107(a)(14) for its covered credit transactions originated for businesses. Using this information, Financial Institution A determined that it had originated 750 covered credit transactions for businesses that were small as defined in § 1002.106. On an annualized basis, Financial Institution A originated 3,000 covered credit transactions for small businesses (750 originations * 4 = 3,000 originations per year). Applying this annualized figure of 3,000 originations to both calendar years 2022 and 2023, Financial Institution A is in Tier 1 and has a compliance date of July 18, 2025.
ii. Prior to July 1, 2023, Financial Institution B collected gross annual revenue information for some applicants for business credit, but such information was only noted in its paper loan files. Financial Institution B thus does not have reasonable access to information that would allow it to determine the small business status of the businesses for whom it originated covered credit transactions for calendar years 2022 and 2023. Financial Institution B chose to use the methodology set out in comment 114(c)-5.i, and as of October 1, 2023, Financial Institution B began to ask all businesses for whom it was closing covered credit transactions if they had gross annual revenues in the preceding fiscal year of $5 million or less. Using this information, Financial Institution B determined that it had originated 350 covered credit transactions for businesses that were small as defined in § 1002.106. On an annualized basis, Financial Institution B originated 1,400 covered credit transactions for small businesses (350 originations * 4 = 1,400 originations per year). Applying this estimated figure of 1,400 originations to both calendar years 2022 and 2023, Financial Institution B is in Tier 2 and has a compliance date of January 16, 2026.
iii. Prior to April 1, 2023, Financial Institution C did not collect gross annual revenue or other information that would allow it to determine the small business status of the businesses for whom it originated covered credit transactions in calendar years 2022 and 2023. Financial Institution C chose its own methodology pursuant to comment 114(c)-5.iii, basing it in part on the methodology specified in comment 114(c)-5.i. Starting on April 1, 2023, Financial Institution C began to ask all business applicants for covered credit transactions if they had gross annual revenue in their preceding fiscal year of $5 million or less. Using this information, Financial Institution C determined that it had originated 100 covered credit transactions for businesses that were small as defined in § 1002.106. On an annualized basis, Financial Institution C originated approximately 133 covered credit transactions for small businesses ((100 originations * 365 days)/275 days = 132.73 originations per year). Applying this estimate of 133 originations to both calendar years 2022 and 2023, Financial Institution C is in Tier 3 and has a compliance date of October 18, 2026.
iv. Financial Institution D did not collect gross annual revenue or other information that would allow it to determine the small business status of the businesses for whom it originated covered credit transactions in calendar years 2022 and 2023. Financial Institution D determined that it had originated 3,000 total covered credit transactions for businesses in each of 2022 and 2023. Applying the methodology specified in comment 114(c)-5.ii, Financial Institution D assumed that all 3,000 covered credit transactions originated in each of 2022 and 2023 were to small businesses. On that basis, Financial Institution D is in Tier 1 and has a compliance date of July 18, 2025.
v. Financial Institution E did not collect gross annual revenue or other information that would allow it to determine the small business status of the businesses for whom it originated covered credit transactions in calendar years 2022 and 2023. Financial Institution E determined that it had originated 700 total covered credit transactions for businesses in each of 2022 and 2023. Applying the methodology specified in comment 114(c)-5.ii, Financial Institution E assumed that all such transactions in each of 2022 and 2023 were originated for small businesses. On that basis, Financial Institution E is in Tier 2 and has a compliance date of January 16, 2026.
vi. Financial Institution F does not have readily accessible gross annual revenue or other information that would allow it to determine the small business status of the businesses for whom it originated covered credit transactions in calendar years 2022 and 2023. Financial Institution F determined that it had originated 80 total covered credit transactions for businesses in 2022 and 150 total covered credit transactions for businesses in 2023. Applying the methodology set out in comment 114(c)-5.ii, Financial Institution F assumed that all such transactions originated in 2022 and 2023 were originated for small businesses. On that basis, Financial Institution E is not in Tier 1, Tier 2 or Tier 3, and is subject to the compliance date provision specified in § 1002.114(b)(4).
vii. Financial Institution G does not have readily accessible gross annual revenue or other information that would allow it to determine the small business status of the businesses for whom it originated covered
credit transactions in calendar years 2022, 2023, or 2024. Financial Institution G chose to use the methodology set out in comment 114(c)-5.i, and as of October 1, 2024, Financial Institution G began to ask all businesses for whom it was closing covered credit transactions if they had gross annual revenue in the preceding fiscal year of $5 million or less. Using this information, Financial Institution G determined that it had originated 700 covered credit transactions during that period for businesses that were small as defined in § 1002.106. On an annualized basis, Financial Institution G originated 2,800 covered credit transactions for small businesses (700 originations * 4 = 2,800 originations per year). Applying this estimated figure of 2,800 originations to both calendar years 2023 and 2024, Financial Institution G is in Tier 1 and has a compliance date of July 18, 2025.

# Appendix C—Sample Notification Forms
1.
Form C-9.
If not otherwise provided under other applicable disclosure requirements, creditors may design their own form, add to, or modify the model form to reflect their individual policies and procedures. For example, a creditor may want to add:
i. A telephone number that applicants may call to leave their name and the address to which a copy of the appraisal or other written valuation should be sent.
ii. A notice of the cost the applicant will be required to pay the creditor for the appraisal or other valuation.
[76 FR 79445, Dec. 21, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 7248, Jan. 31, 2013; 82 FR 45695, Oct. 2, 2017; 88 FR 35536, May 31, 2023; 89 FR 55029, July 3, 2024]
Pt. 1003

# PART 1003—HOME MORTGAGE DISCLOSURE (REGULATION C)
Sec.
1003.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
1003.2
Definitions.
1003.3
Exempt institutions and excluded and partially exempt transactions.
1003.4
Compilation of reportable data.
1003.5
Disclosure and reporting.
1003.6
Enforcement.
Appendix A to Part 1003 [Reserved]
Appendix B to Part 1003—Form and Instructions for Data Collection on Ethnicity, Race, and Sex
Appendix C to Part 1003—Procedures for Generating a Check Digit and Validating a ULI
Supplement I to Part 1003—Official Interpretations

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 2803, 2804, 2805, 5512, 5581.

# Source:
76 FR 78468, Dec. 19, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1003.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part, known as Regulation C, is issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) pursuant to the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) (12 U.S.C. 2801
et seq.,
) as amended. The information-collection requirements have been approved by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and have been assigned OMB numbers for institutions reporting data to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (1557-0159), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (3064-0046), the Federal Reserve System (7100-0247), the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) (2502-0529), the National Credit Union Administration (3133-0166), and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (3170-0008).
(b)
Purpose.
(1) This part implements the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, which is intended to provide the public with loan data that can be used:
(i) To help determine whether financial institutions are serving the housing needs of their communities;
(ii) To assist public officials in distributing public-sector investment so as to attract private investment to areas where it is needed; and
(iii) To assist in identifying possible discriminatory lending patterns and enforcing antidiscrimination statutes.
(2) Neither the act nor this part is intended to encourage unsound lending practices or the allocation of credit.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to financial institutions as defined in § 1003.2(g). This part requires a financial institution to submit data to the appropriate Federal agency for the financial institution as defined in § 1003.5(a)(4), and to disclose certain data to the public, about covered loans for which the financial institution receives applications, or that it originates or purchases, and that are secured by a dwelling located in a State of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
[76 FR 78468, Dec. 19, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 66308, Oct. 28, 2015]
§ 1003.2
Definitions.
In this part:
(a)
Act
means the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) (12 U.S.C. 2801
et seq.
), as amended.
(b)
Application
—(1)
In general.
Application means an oral or written request for a covered loan that is made in accordance with procedures used by a financial institution for the type of credit requested.
(2)
Preapproval programs.
A request for preapproval for a home purchase loan, other than a home purchase loan that will be an open-end line of credit, a reverse mortgage, or secured by a multifamily dwelling, is an application under this section if the request is reviewed under a program in which the financial institution, after a comprehensive analysis of the creditworthiness of the applicant, issues a written commitment to the applicant valid for a designated period of time to extend a home purchase loan up to a specified amount. The written commitment may not be subject to conditions other than:
(i) Conditions that require the identification of a suitable property;
(ii) Conditions that require that no material change has occurred in the applicant's financial condition or creditworthiness prior to closing; and
(iii) Limited conditions that are not related to the financial condition or creditworthiness of the applicant that the financial institution ordinarily attaches to a traditional home mortgage application.
(c)
Branch office
means:
(1) Any office of a bank, savings association, or credit union that is considered a branch by the Federal or State supervisory agency applicable to that institution, excluding automated teller machines and other free-standing electronic terminals; and
(2) Any office of a for-profit mortgage-lending institution (other than a bank, savings association, or credit union) that takes applications from the public for covered loans. A for-profit mortgage-lending institution (other than a bank, savings association, or credit union) is also deemed to have a branch office in an MSA or in an MD, if, in the preceding calendar year, it received applications for, originated, or purchased five or more covered loans related to property located in that MSA or MD, respectively.
(d)
Closed-end mortgage loan
means an extension of credit that is secured by a lien on a dwelling and that is not an open-end line of credit under paragraph (o) of this section.
(e)
Covered loan
means a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit that is not an excluded transaction under § 1003.3(c).
(f)
Dwelling
means a residential structure, whether or not attached to real property. The term includes but is not limited to a detached home, an individual condominium or cooperative unit, a manufactured home or other factory-built home, or a multifamily residential structure or community.
(g)
Financial institution
means a depository financial institution or a nondepository financial institution, where:
(1)
Depository financial institution
means a bank, savings association, or credit union that:
(i) On the preceding December 31 had assets in excess of the asset threshold established and published annually by the Bureau for coverage by the Act, based on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, for each twelve month period ending in November, with rounding to the nearest million;
(ii) On the preceding December 31, had a home or branch office in an MSA;
(iii) In the preceding calendar year, originated at least one home purchase loan or refinancing of a home purchase loan, secured by a first lien on a one- to four-unit dwelling;
(iv) Meets one or more of the following two criteria:
(A) The institution is federally insured or regulated; or
(B) Any loan referred to in paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section was insured, guaranteed, or supplemented by a Federal agency, or was intended by the institution for sale to the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation; and
(v) Meets at least one of the following criteria:
(A) In each of the two preceding calendar years, originated at least 25 closed-end mortgage loans that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) or (c)(13); or
(B) In each of the two preceding calendar years, originated at least 200 open-end lines of credit that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10); and
(2)
Nondepository financial institution
means a for-profit mortgage-lending institution (other than a bank, savings association, or credit union) that:
(i) On the preceding December 31, had a home or branch office in an MSA; and
(ii) Meets at least one of the following criteria:
(A) In each of the two preceding calendar years, originated at least 25 closed-end mortgage loans that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) or (c)(13); or
(B) In each of the two preceding calendar years, originated at least 200 open-end lines of credit that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10).
(h) [Reserved]
(i)
Home improvement loan
means a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit that is for the purpose, in whole or in part, of repairing, rehabilitating, remodeling, or improving a dwelling or the real property on which the dwelling is located.
(j)
Home purchase loan
means a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit that is for the purpose, in whole or in part, of purchasing a dwelling.
(k)
Loan/Application Register
means both the record of information required to be collected pursuant to § 1003.4 and the record submitted annually or quarterly, as applicable, pursuant to § 1003.5(a).
(l)
Manufactured home
means any residential structure as defined under regulations of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development establishing manufactured home construction and safety standards (24 CFR 3280.2). For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(5), the term also includes a multifamily dwelling that is a manufactured home community.
(m)
Metropolitan Statistical Area
(
MSA)
and
Metropolitan Division
(
MD).
(1)
Metropolitan Statistical Area
or
MSA
means a Metropolitan Statistical Area as defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget.
(2)
Metropolitan Division
(
MD)
means a Metropolitan Division of an MSA, as defined by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget.
(n)
Multifamily dwelling
means a dwelling, regardless of construction method, that contains five or more individual dwelling units.
(o)
Open-end line of credit
means an extension of credit that:
(1) Is secured by a lien on a dwelling; and
(2) Is an open-end credit plan as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(20), but without regard to whether the credit is consumer credit, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(12), is extended by a creditor, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(17), or is extended to a consumer, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(11).
(p)
Refinancing
means a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit in which a new, dwelling-secured debt obligation satisfies and replaces an existing, dwelling-secured debt obligation by the same borrower.
(q)
Reverse mortgage
means a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit that is a reverse mortgage transaction as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.33(a), but without regard to whether the security interest is created in a principal dwelling.
[80 FR 66308, Oct. 28, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 43132, Sept. 13, 2017; 84 FR 57980, Oct. 29, 2019; 85 FR 28404, 28406, May 12, 2020; 87 FR 77981, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 1003.3
Exempt institutions and excluded and partially exempt transactions.
(a)
Exemption based on state law.
(1) A state-chartered or state-licensed financial institution is exempt from the requirements of this part if the Bureau determines that the institution is subject to a state disclosure law that contains requirements substantially similar to those imposed by this part and that contains adequate provisions for enforcement.
(2) Any state, state-chartered or state-licensed financial institution, or association of such institutions, may
apply to the Bureau for an exemption under paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) An institution that is exempt under paragraph (a) of this section shall use the disclosure form required by its state law and shall submit the data required by that law to its state supervisory agency for purposes of aggregation.
(b)
Loss of exemption.
An institution losing a state-law exemption under paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with this part beginning with the calendar year following the year for which it last reported loan data under the state disclosure law.
(c)
Excluded transactions.
The requirements of this part do not apply to:
(1) A closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit originated or purchased by a financial institution acting in a fiduciary capacity;
(2) A closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit secured by a lien on unimproved land;
(3) Temporary financing;
(4) The purchase of an interest in a pool of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit;
(5) The purchase solely of the right to service closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit;
(6) The purchase of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit as part of a merger or acquisition, or as part of the acquisition of all of the assets and liabilities of a branch office as defined in § 1003.2(c);
(7) A closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit, or an application for a closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit, for which the total dollar amount is less than $500;
(8) The purchase of a partial interest in a closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit;
(9) A closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit used primarily for agricultural purposes;
(10) A closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit that is or will be made primarily for a business or commercial purpose, unless the closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit is a home improvement loan under § 1003.2(i), a home purchase loan under § 1003.2(j), or a refinancing under § 1003.2(p);
(11) A closed-end mortgage loan, if the financial institution originated fewer than 25 closed-end mortgage loans in either of the two preceding calendar years; a financial institution may collect, record, report, and disclose information, as described in §§ 1003.4 and 1003.5, for such an excluded closed-end mortgage loan as though it were a covered loan, provided that the financial institution complies with such requirements for all applications for closed-end mortgage loans that it receives, closed-end mortgage loans that it originates, and closed-end mortgage loans that it purchases that otherwise would have been covered loans during the calendar year during which final action is taken on the excluded closed-end mortgage loan;
(12) An open-end line of credit, if the financial institution originated fewer than 200 open-end lines of credit in either of the two preceding calendar years; a financial institution may collect, record, report, and disclose information, as described in §§ 1003.4 and 1003.5, for such an excluded open-end line of credit as though it were a covered loan, provided that the financial institution complies with such requirements for all applications for open-end lines of credit that it receives, open-end lines of credit that it originates, and open-end lines of credit that it purchases that otherwise would have been covered loans during the calendar year during which final action is taken on the excluded open-end line of credit; or
(13) A transaction that provided or, in the case of an application, proposed to provide new funds to the applicant or borrower in advance of being consolidated in a New York State consolidation, extension, and modification agreement classified as a supplemental mortgage under New York Tax Law section 255; the transaction is excluded only if final action on the consolidation was taken in the same calendar year as final action on the new funds transaction.
(d)
Partially exempt transactions.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph (d), the following definitions apply:
(i)
Insured credit union
means an insured credit union as defined in section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).
(ii)
Insured depository institution
means an insured depository institution as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
(iii)
Optional data
means the data identified in § 1003.4(a)(1)(i), (a)(9)(i), and (a)(12), (15) through (30), and (32) through (38).
(iv)
Partially exempt transaction
means a covered loan or application that is partially exempt under paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, an insured depository institution or insured credit union that, in each of the two preceding calendar years, originated fewer than 500 closed-end mortgage loans that are not excluded from this part pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) or paragraph (c)(13) of this section is not required to collect, record, or report optional data as defined in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section for applications for closed-end mortgage loans that it receives, closed-end mortgage loans that it originates, and closed-end mortgage loans that it purchases.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, an insured depository institution or insured credit union that, in each of the two preceding calendar years, originated fewer than 500 open-end lines of credit that are not excluded from this part pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section is not required to collect, record, or report optional data as defined in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section for applications for open-end lines of credit that it receives, open-end lines of credit that it originates, and open-end lines of credit that it purchases.
(4) A financial institution eligible for a partial exemption under paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section may collect, record, and report optional data as defined in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section for a partially exempt transaction as though the institution were required to do so, provided that:
(i) If the institution reports the street address, city name, or Zip Code for the property securing a covered loan, or in the case of an application, proposed to secure a covered loan pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(9)(i), it reports all data that would be required by § 1003.4(a)(9)(i) if the transaction were not partially exempt;
(ii) If the institution reports any data for the transaction pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(15), (16), (17), (27), (33), or (35), it reports all data that would be required by § 1003.4(a)(15), (16), (17), (27), (33), or (35), respectively, if the transaction were not partially exempt.
(5) If, pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) or (3) of this section, a financial institution does not report a universal loan identifier (ULI) pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(1)(i) for an application for a covered loan that it receives, a covered loan that it originates, or a covered loan that it purchases, the financial institution shall assign and report a non-universal loan identifier (NULI). The NULI must be composed of up to 22 characters to identify the covered loan or application, which:
(i) May be letters, numerals, or a combination of letters and numerals;
(ii) Must be unique within the annual loan/application register in which the covered loan or application is included; and
(iii) Must not include any information that could be used to directly identify the applicant or borrower.
(6) Paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section do not apply to an insured depository institution that, as of the preceding December 31, had received a rating of “needs to improve record of meeting community credit needs” during each of its two most recent examinations or a rating of “substantial noncompliance in meeting community credit needs” on its most recent examination under section 807(b)(2) of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2906(b)(2)).
[76 FR 78468, Dec. 19, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 66309, Oct. 28, 2015; 82 FR 43132, Sept. 13, 2017; 84 FR 57980, Oct. 29, 2019; 85 FR 28404, 28406, May 12, 2020; 87 FR 77981, Dec. 21, 2022]
§ 1003.4
Compilation of reportable data.
(a)
Data format and itemization.
A financial institution shall collect data regarding applications for covered loans that it receives, covered loans that it originates, and covered loans that it purchases for each calendar year. A financial institution shall collect data regarding requests under a
preapproval program, as defined in § 1003.2(b)(2), only if the preapproval request is denied, is approved by the financial institution but not accepted by the applicant, or results in the origination of a home purchase loan. Except as provided in § 1003.3(d), the data collected shall include the following items:
(1)(i) A universal loan identifier (ULI) or, for a partially exempt transaction under § 1003.3(d), either a ULI or a non-universal loan identifier (NULI) as described in § 1003.3(d)(5) for the covered loan or application that can be used to identify and retrieve the covered loan or application file. Except for a purchased covered loan or application described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(D) and (E) of this section or a partially exempt transaction for which a NULI is assigned and reported under § 1003.3(d), the financial institution shall assign and report a ULI that:
(A) Begins with the financial institution's Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) that is issued by:
(
1
) A utility endorsed by the LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee; or
(
2
) A utility endorsed or otherwise governed by the Global LEI Foundation (GLEIF) (or any successor of the GLEIF) after the GLEIF assumes operational governance of the global LEI system.
(B) Follows the LEI with up to 23 additional characters to identify the covered loan or application, which:
(
1
) May be letters, numerals, or a combination of letters and numerals;
(
2
) Must be unique within the financial institution; and
(
3
) Must not include any information that could be used to directly identify the applicant or borrower; and
(C) Ends with a two-character check digit, as prescribed in appendix C to this part.
(D) For a purchased covered loan that any financial institution has previously assigned or reported with a ULI under this part, the financial institution that purchases the covered loan must use the ULI that was assigned or previously reported for the covered loan.
(E) For an application that was previously reported with a ULI under this part and that results in an origination during the same calendar year that is reported in a subsequent reporting period pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), the financial institution may report the same ULI for the origination that was previously reported for the application.
(ii) Except for purchased covered loans, the date the application was received or the date shown on the application form.
(2) Whether the covered loan is, or in the case of an application would have been, insured by the Federal Housing Administration, guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or guaranteed by the Rural Housing Service or the Farm Service Agency.
(3) Whether the covered loan is, or the application is for, a home purchase loan, a home improvement loan, a refinancing, a cash-out refinancing, or for a purpose other than home purchase, home improvement, refinancing, or cash-out refinancing.
(4) Whether the application or covered loan involved a request for a preapproval of a home purchase loan under a preapproval program.
(5) Whether the construction method for the dwelling related to the property identified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section is site-built or a manufactured home.
(6) Whether the property identified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section is or will be used by the applicant or borrower as a principal residence, as a second residence, or as an investment property.
(7) The amount of the covered loan or the amount applied for, as applicable.
(i) For a closed-end mortgage loan, other than a purchased loan, an assumption, or a reverse mortgage, the amount to be repaid as disclosed on the legal obligation. For a purchased closed-end mortgage loan or an assumption of a closed-end mortgage loan, the unpaid principal balance at the time of purchase or assumption.
(ii) For an open-end line of credit, other than a reverse mortgage open-end line of credit, the amount of credit available to the borrower under the terms of the plan.
(iii) For a reverse mortgage, the initial principal limit, as determined pursuant to section 255 of the National
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20) and implementing regulations and mortgagee letters issued by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
(8) The following information about the financial institution's action:
(i) The action taken by the financial institution, recorded as one of the following:
(A) Whether a covered loan was originated or purchased;
(B) Whether an application for a covered loan that did not result in the origination of a covered loan was approved but not accepted, denied, withdrawn by the applicant, or closed for incompleteness; and
(C) Whether a preapproval request that did not result in the origination of a home purchase loan was denied or approved but not accepted.
(ii) The date of the action taken by the financial institution.
(9) The following information about the location of the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan:
(i) The property address; and
(ii) If the property is located in an MSA or MD in which the financial institution has a home or branch office, or if the institution is subject to paragraph (e) of this section, the location of the property by:
(A) State;
(B) County; and
(C) Census tract if the property is located in a county with a population of more than 30,000 according to the most recent decennial census conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau.
(10) The following information about the applicant or borrower:
(i) Ethnicity, race, and sex, and whether this information was collected on the basis of visual observation or surname;
(ii) Age; and
(iii) Except for covered loans or applications for which the credit decision did not consider or would not have considered income, the gross annual income relied on in making the credit decision or, if a credit decision was not made, the gross annual income relied on in processing the application.
(11) The type of entity purchasing a covered loan that the financial institution originates or purchases and then sells within the same calendar year.
(12)(i) For covered loans and applications that are approved but not accepted, and that are subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026, other than assumptions, purchased covered loans, and reverse mortgages, the difference between the covered loan's annual percentage rate and the average prime offer rate for a comparable transaction as of the date the interest rate is set.
(ii) “Average prime offer rate” means an annual percentage rate that is derived from average interest rates and other loan pricing terms currently offered to consumers by a set of creditors for mortgage loans that have low-risk pricing characteristics. The Bureau publishes tables of average prime offer rates by transaction type at least weekly and also publishes the methodology it uses to derive these rates.
(13) For covered loans subject to the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, as implemented in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32, whether the covered loan is a high-cost mortgage under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32(a).
(14) The lien status (first or subordinate lien) of the property identified under paragraph (a)(9) of this section.
(15)(i) Except for purchased covered loans, the credit score or scores relied on in making the credit decision and the name and version of the scoring model used to generate each credit score.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(15), “credit score” has the meaning set forth in 15 U.S.C. 1681g(f)(2)(A).
(16) The principal reason or reasons the financial institution denied the application, if applicable.
(17) For covered loans subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.43(c), the following information:
(i) If a disclosure is provided for the covered loan pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), the amount of total loan costs, as disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(f)(4); or
(ii) If the covered loan is not subject to the disclosure requirements in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), and is not a purchased covered loan, the total points and fees charged in connection
with the covered loan, expressed in dollars and calculated pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(1).
(18) For covered loans subject to the disclosure requirements in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), the total of all itemized amounts that are designated borrower-paid at or before closing, as disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(f)(1).
(19) For covered loans subject to the disclosure requirements in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), the points paid to the creditor to reduce the interest rate, expressed in dollars, as described in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.37(f)(1)(i), and disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(f)(1).
(20) For covered loans subject to the disclosure requirements in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), the amount of lender credits, as disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(h)(3).
(21) The interest rate applicable to the approved application, or to the covered loan at closing or account opening.
(22) For covered loans or applications subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026, other than reverse mortgages or purchased covered loans, the term in months of any prepayment penalty, as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(6)(i) or (ii), as applicable.
(23) Except for purchased covered loans, the ratio of the applicant's or borrower's total monthly debt to the total monthly income relied on in making the credit decision.
(24) Except for purchased covered loans, the ratio of the total amount of debt secured by the property to the value of the property relied on in making the credit decision.
(25) The scheduled number of months after which the legal obligation will mature or terminate or would have matured or terminated.
(26) The number of months, or proposed number of months in the case of an application, until the first date the interest rate may change after closing or account opening.
(27) Whether the contractual terms include or would have included any of the following:
(i) A balloon payment as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18(s)(5)(i);
(ii) Interest-only payments as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18(s)(7)(iv);
(iii) A contractual term that would cause the covered loan to be a negative amortization loan as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18(s)(7)(v); or
(iv) Any other contractual term that would allow for payments other than fully amortizing payments, as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(2), during the loan term, other than the contractual terms described in this paragraph (a)(27)(i), (ii), and (iii).
(28) The value of the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan relied on in making the credit decision.
(29) If the dwelling related to the property identified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section is a manufactured home and not a multifamily dwelling, whether the covered loan is, or in the case of an application would have been, secured by a manufactured home and land, or by a manufactured home and not land.
(30) If the dwelling related to the property identified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section is a manufactured home and not a multifamily dwelling, whether the applicant or borrower:
(i) Owns the land on which it is or will be located or, in the case of an application, did or would have owned the land on which it would have been located, through a direct or indirect ownership interest; or
(ii) Leases or, in the case of an application, leases or would have leased the land through a paid or unpaid leasehold.
(31) The number of individual dwelling units related to the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan.
(32) If the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan includes a multifamily dwelling, the number of individual dwelling units related to the property that are income-restricted pursuant to Federal, State, or local affordable housing programs.
(33) Except for purchased covered loans, the following information about
the application channel of the covered loan or application:
(i) Whether the applicant or borrower submitted the application for the covered loan directly to the financial institution; and
(ii) Whether the obligation arising from the covered loan was, or in the case of an application, would have been initially payable to the financial institution.
(34) For a covered loan or application, the unique identifier assigned by the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry for the mortgage loan originator, as defined in Regulation G, 12 CFR 1007.102, or Regulation H, 12 CFR 1008.23, as applicable.
(35)(i) Except for purchased covered loans, the name of the automated underwriting system used by the financial institution to evaluate the application and the result generated by that automated underwriting system.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (a)(35), an “automated underwriting system” means an electronic tool developed by a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit that provides a result regarding the credit risk of the applicant and whether the covered loan is eligible to be originated, purchased, insured, or guaranteed by that securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor. A person is a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit, respectively, if it has ever securitized, provided Federal government insurance, or provided a Federal government guarantee for a closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit.
(36) Whether the covered loan is, or the application is for, a reverse mortgage.
(37) Whether the covered loan is, or the application is for, an open-end line of credit.
(38) Whether the covered loan is, or the application is for a covered loan that will be, made primarily for a business or commercial purpose.
(b)
Collection of data on ethnicity, race, sex, age, and income.
(1) A financial institution shall collect data about the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant or borrower as prescribed in appendix B to this part.
(2) Ethnicity, race, sex, age, and income data may but need not be collected for covered loans purchased by a financial institution.
(c)-(d) [Reserved]
(e)
Data reporting for banks and savings associations that are required to report data on small business, small farm, and community development lending under CRA.
Banks and savings associations that are required to report data on small business, small farm, and community development lending under regulations that implement the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2901
et seq.
) shall also collect the information required by paragraph (a)(9)(ii) of this section for property located outside MSAs and MDs in which the institution has a home or branch office, or outside any MSA.
(f)
Quarterly recording of data.
A financial institution shall record the data collected pursuant to this section on a loan/application register within 30 calendar days after the end of the calendar quarter in which final action is taken (such as origination or purchase of a covered loan, sale of a covered loan in the same calendar year it is originated or purchased, or denial or withdrawal of an application).
[80 FR 66310, Oct. 28, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 43132, Sept. 13, 2017; 84 FR 57981, Oct. 29, 2019]
§ 1003.5
Disclosure and reporting.
(a)
Reporting to agency
—(1)(i)
Annual reporting.
By March 1 following the calendar year for which data are collected and recorded as required by § 1003.4, a financial institution shall submit its annual loan/application register in electronic format to the appropriate Federal agency at the address identified by such agency. An authorized representative of the financial institution with knowledge of the data submitted shall certify to the accuracy and completeness of data submitted pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1)(i). The financial institution shall retain a copy of its annual loan/application register submitted pursuant to this paragraph
(a)(1)(i) for its records for at least three years.
(ii)
Quarterly reporting.
Within 60 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter except the fourth quarter, a financial institution that reported for the preceding calendar year at least 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, shall submit to the appropriate Federal agency its loan/application register containing all data required to be recorded for that quarter pursuant to § 1003.4(f). The financial institution shall submit its quarterly loan/application register pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1)(ii) in electronic format at the address identified by the appropriate Federal agency for the institution.
(iii) When the last day for submission of data prescribed under this paragraph (a)(1) falls on a Saturday or Sunday, a submission shall be considered timely if it is submitted on the next succeeding Monday.
(2) A financial institution that is a subsidiary of a bank or savings association shall complete a separate loan/application register. The subsidiary shall submit the loan/application register, directly or through its parent, to the appropriate Federal agency for the subsidiary's parent at the address identified by the agency.
(3) A financial institution shall provide with its submission:
(i) Its name;
(ii) The calendar year the data submission covers pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section or calendar quarter and year the data submission covers pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section;
(iii) The name and contact information of a person who may be contacted with questions about the institution's submission;
(iv) Its appropriate Federal agency;
(v) The total number of entries contained in the submission;
(vi) Its Federal Taxpayer Identification number; and
(vii) Its Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) as described in § 1003.4(a)(1)(i)(A).
(4) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, “appropriate Federal agency” means the appropriate agency for the financial institution as determined pursuant to section 304(h)(2) of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (12 U.S.C. 2803(h)(2)) or, with respect to a financial institution subject to the Bureau's supervisory authority under section 1025(a) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5515(a)), the Bureau.
(5) Procedures for the submission of data pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section are available at
www.consumerfinance.gov/hmda
.
(b)
Disclosure statement.
(1) The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) will make available a disclosure statement based on the data each financial institution submits for the preceding calendar year pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) No later than three business days after receiving notice from the FFIEC that a financial institution's disclosure statement is available, the financial institution shall make available to the public upon request at its home office, and each branch office physically located in each MSA and each MD, a written notice that clearly conveys that the institution's disclosure statement may be obtained on the Bureau's Web site at
www.consumerfinance.gov/hmda
.
(c)
Modified loan/application register.
(1) A financial institution shall make available to the public upon request at its home office, and each branch office physically located in each MSA and each MD, a written notice that clearly conveys that the institution's loan/application register, as modified by the Bureau to protect applicant and borrower privacy, may be obtained on the Bureau's Web site at
www.consumerfinance.gov/hmda
.
(2) A financial institution shall make available the notice required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section following the calendar year for which the data are collected.
(d)
Availability of written notices.
(1) A financial institution shall make the notice required by paragraph (c) of this section available to the public for a period of three years and the notice required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section available to the public for a period of five years. An institution shall make these notices available during the
hours the office is normally open to the public for business.
(2) A financial institution may make available to the public, at its discretion and in addition to the written notices required by paragraphs (b)(2) or (c)(1) of this section, as applicable, its disclosure statement or its loan/application register, as modified by the Bureau to protect applicant and borrower privacy. A financial institution may impose a reasonable fee for any cost incurred in providing or reproducing these data.
(e)
Posted notice of availability of data.
A financial institution shall post a general notice about the availability of its HMDA data in the lobby of its home office and of each branch office physically located in each MSA and each MD. This notice must clearly convey that the institution's HMDA data is available on the Bureau's Web site at
www.consumerfinance.gov/hmda
.
(f)
Aggregated data.
Using data submitted by financial institutions pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the FFIEC will make available aggregate data for each MSA and MD, showing lending patterns by property location, age of housing stock, and income level, sex, ethnicity, and race.
[80 FR 66312, Oct. 28, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 66313, Oct. 28, 2015; 82 FR 43145, Sept. 13, 2017]
§ 1003.6
Enforcement.
(a)
Administrative enforcement.
A violation of the Act or this part is subject to administrative sanctions as provided in section 305 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 2804), including the imposition of civil money penalties, where applicable. Compliance is enforced by the agencies listed in section 305 of the Act.
(b)
Bona fide errors.
(1) An error in compiling or recording data for a covered loan or application is not a violation of the Act or this part if the error was unintentional and occurred despite the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid such an error.
(2) An incorrect entry for a census tract number is deemed a bona fide error, and is not a violation of the Act or this part, provided that the financial institution maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid such an error.
(c)
Quarterly recording and reporting.
(1) If a financial institution makes a good-faith effort to record all data required to be recorded pursuant to § 1003.4(f) fully and accurately within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter, and some data are nevertheless inaccurate or incomplete, the inaccuracy or omission is not a violation of the Act or this part provided that the institution corrects or completes the data prior to submitting its annual loan/application register pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i).
(2) If a financial institution required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) makes a good-faith effort to report all data required to be reported pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) fully and accurately within 60 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter, and some data are nevertheless inaccurate or incomplete, the inaccuracy or omission is not a violation of the Act or this part provided that the institution corrects or completes the data prior to submitting its annual loan/application register pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i).
[80 FR 66313, Oct. 28, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 43145, 43146, Sept. 13, 2017]
Appendix A to Part 1003 [Reserved]
Pt. 1003, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 1003—Form and Instructions for Data Collection on Ethnicity, Race, and Sex
You may list questions regarding the ethnicity, race, and sex of the applicant on your loan application form, or on a separate form that refers to the application. (See the sample data collection form below for model language.)
1. You must ask the applicant for this information (but you cannot require the applicant to provide it) whether the application is taken in person, by mail or telephone, or on the internet. For applications taken by telephone, you must state the information in the collection form orally, except for that information which pertains uniquely to applications taken in writing, for example, the italicized language in the sample data collection form.
2. Inform the applicant that Federal law requires this information to be collected in order to protect consumers and to monitor compliance with Federal statutes that prohibit discrimination against applicants on these bases. Inform the applicant that if the information is not provided where the application is taken in person, you are required to
note the information on the basis of visual observation or surname.
3. If you accept an application through electronic media with a video component, you must treat the application as taken in person. If you accept an application through electronic media without a video component (for example, facsimile), you must treat the application as accepted by mail.
4. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(10)(i), if a covered loan or application includes a guarantor, you do not report the guarantor's ethnicity, race, and sex.
5. If there are no co-applicants, you must report that there is no co-applicant. If there is more than one co-applicant, you must provide the ethnicity, race, and sex only for the first co-applicant listed on the collection form. A co-applicant may provide an absent co-applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex on behalf of the absent co-applicant. If the information is not provided for an absent co-applicant, you must report “information not provided by applicant in mail, internet, or telephone application” for the absent co-applicant.
6. When you purchase a covered loan and you choose not to report the applicant's or co-applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex, you must report that the requirement is not applicable.
7. You must report that the requirement to report the applicant's or co-applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex is not applicable when the applicant or co-applicant is not a natural person (for example, a corporation, partnership, or trust). For example, for a transaction involving a trust, you must report that the requirement to report the applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex is not applicable if the trust is the applicant. On the other hand, if the applicant is a natural person, and is the beneficiary of a trust, you must report the applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex.
8. You must report the ethnicity, race, and sex of an applicant as provided by the applicant. For example, if an applicant selects the “Asian” box the institution reports “Asian” for the race of the applicant. Only an applicant may self-identify as being of a particular Hispanic or Latino subcategory (Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Other Hispanic or Latino) or of a particular Asian subcategory (Asian Indian, Chinese, Filipino, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Other Asian) or of a particular Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander subcategory (Native Hawaiian, Guamanian or Chamorro, Samoan, Other Pacific Islander) or of a particular American Indian or Alaska Native enrolled or principal tribe. An applicant may select an ethnicity or race subcategory even if the applicant does not select an aggregate ethnicity or aggregate race category. For example, if an applicant selects only the “Mexican” box, the institution reports “Mexican” for the ethnicity of the applicant but does not also report “Hispanic or Latino.”
9. You must offer the applicant the option of selecting more than one ethnicity or race. If an applicant selects more than one ethnicity or race, you must report each selected designation, subject to the limits described below.
i.
Ethnicity—Aggregate categories and subcategories.
There are two aggregate ethnicity categories: Hispanic or Latino; and Not Hispanic or Latino. The Hispanic or Latino category has four subcategories: Mexican; Puerto Rican; Cuban; and Other Hispanic or Latino. You must report every aggregate ethnicity category selected by the applicant. If the applicant also selects one or more ethnicity subcategories, you must report each ethnicity subcategory selected by the applicant, except that you must not report more than a total of five aggregate ethnicity categories and ethnicity subcategories combined. For example, if the applicant selects both aggregate ethnicity categories and also selects all four ethnicity subcategories, you must report Hispanic or Latino, Not Hispanic or Latino, and any three, at your option, of the four ethnicity subcategories selected by the applicant. To determine how to report the Other Hispanic or Latino ethnicity subcategory for purposes of the five-ethnicity maximum, see paragraph 9.ii below.
ii.
Ethnicity—Other subcategories.
An applicant may select the Other Hispanic or Latino ethnicity subcategory, an applicant may provide a particular Hispanic or Latino ethnicity not listed in the standard subcategories, or an applicant may do both. If the applicant provides only a particular Hispanic or Latino ethnicity in the space provided, you are permitted, but are not required, to report Other Hispanic or Latino in addition to reporting the particular Hispanic or Latino ethnicity provided by the applicant. For example, if an applicant provides only “Dominican,” you should report “Dominican.” You are permitted, but not required, to report Other Hispanic or Latino as well. If an applicant selects the Other Hispanic or Latino ethnicity subcategory and also provides a particular Hispanic or Latino ethnicity not listed in the standard subcategories, you must report both the selection of Other Hispanic or Latino and the additional information provided by the applicant, subject to the five-ethnicity maximum. For purposes of the maximum of five reportable ethnicity categories and ethnicity subcategories combined, as set forth in paragraph 9.i, the Other Hispanic or Latino subcategory and additional information provided by the applicant together constitute only one selection. For example, if the applicant selects Other Hispanic or Latino and enters “Dominican” in the space provided, Other Hispanic or Latino and “Dominican”
are considered one selection. Similarly, if the applicant only enters “Dominican” in the space provided and you report both “Dominican” and Other Hispanic or Latino as permitted by this paragraph 9.ii, the reported items together are considered one selection.
iii.
Race—Aggregate categories and subcategories.
There are five aggregate race categories: American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; and White. The Asian and the Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander aggregate categories have seven and four subcategories, respectively. The Asian race subcategories are: Asian Indian; Chinese; Filipino; Japanese; Korean; Vietnamese; and Other Asian. The Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander race subcategories are: Native Hawaiian; Guamanian or Chamorro; Samoan; and Other Pacific Islander. You must report every aggregate race category selected by the applicant. If the applicant also selects one or more race subcategories, you must report each race subcategory selected by the applicant, except that you must not report more than a total of five aggregate race categories and race subcategories combined. For example, if the applicant selects all five aggregate race categories and also selects some race subcategories, you report only the five aggregate race categories. On the other hand, if the applicant selects the White, Asian, and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander aggregate race categories, and the applicant also selects the Korean, Vietnamese, and Samoan race subcategories, you must report White, Asian, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and any two, at your option, of the three race subcategories selected by the applicant. In this example, you must report White, Asian, and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and in addition you must report (at your option) either Korean and Vietnamese, Korean and Samoan, or Vietnamese and Samoan. To determine how to report an Other race subcategory and the American Indian or Alaska Native category for purposes of the five-race maximum, see paragraphs 9.iv and 9.v below.
iv.
Race—Other subcategories.
An applicant may select the Other Asian race subcategory or the Other Pacific Islander race subcategory, an applicant may provide a particular Asian race or Pacific Islander race not listed in the standard subcategories, or an applicant may do both. If the applicant provides only a particular Asian race or Pacific Islander race in the space provided, you are permitted, but are not required, to report Other Asian or Other Pacific Islander, as applicable, in addition to reporting the particular Asian race or Pacific Islander race provided by the applicant. For example, if an applicant provides only “Hmong,” you should report “Hmong.” You are permitted, but not required, to report Other Asian as well. If an applicant selects the Other Asian race or the Other Pacific Islander race subcategory and provides a particular Asian race or Pacific Islander race not listed in the standard subcategories, you must report both the selection of Other Asian or Other Pacific Islander, as applicable, and the additional information provided by the applicant, subject to the five-race maximum. For purposes of the maximum of five reportable race categories and race subcategories combined, as set forth in paragraph 9.iii, the Other race subcategory and additional information provided by the applicant together constitute only one selection. Thus, using the same facts in the example offered in paragraph 9.iii above, if the applicant also selects Other Asian and enters “Thai” in the space provided, Other Asian and Thai are considered one selection. Similarly, if the applicant enters only “Thai” in the space provided and you report both “Thai” and Other Asian as permitted by this paragraph 9.iv, the reported items together are considered one selection. In the same example, you must report any two (at your option) of the four race subcategories selected by the applicant, Korean, Vietnamese, Other Asian-Thai, and Samoan, in addition to the three aggregate race categories selected by the applicant.
v.
Race—American Indian or Alaska Native category.
An applicant may select the American Indian or Alaska Native race category, an applicant may provide a particular American Indian or Alaska Native enrolled or principal tribe, or an applicant may do both. If the applicant provides only a particular American Indian or Alaska Native enrolled or principal tribe in the space provided, you are permitted, but are not required, to report American Indian or Alaska Native in addition to reporting the particular American Indian or Alaska Native enrolled or principal tribe provided by the applicant. For example, if an applicant provides only “Navajo,” you should report “Navajo.” You are permitted, but not required, to report American Indian or Alaska Native as well. If an applicant selects the American Indian or Alaska Native race category and also provides a particular American Indian or Alaska Native enrolled or principal tribe, you must report both the selection of American Indian or Alaska Native and the additional information provided by the applicant. For purposes of the maximum of five reportable race categories and race subcategories combined, as set forth in paragraph 9.iii, the American Indian or Alaska Native category and additional information provided by the applicant together constitute only one selection.
10. If the applicant chooses not to provide the information for an application taken in person, note this fact on the collection form and then collect the applicant's ethnicity,
race, and sex on the basis of visual observation or surname. You must report whether the applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex was collected on the basis of visual observation or surname. When you collect an applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex on the basis of visual observation or surname, you must select from the following aggregate categories: Ethnicity (Hispanic or Latino; not Hispanic or Latino); race (American Indian or Alaska Native; Asian; Black or African American; Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander; White); sex (male; female).
11. If the applicant declines to answer these questions by checking the “I do not wish to provide this information” box on an application that is taken by mail or on the internet, or declines to provide this information by stating orally that he or she does not wish to provide this information on an application that is taken by telephone, you must report “information not provided by applicant in mail, internet, or telephone application.”
12. If the applicant begins an application by mail, internet, or telephone, and does not provide the requested information on the application but does not check or select the “I do not wish to provide this information” box on the application, and the applicant meets in person with you to complete the application, you must request the applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex. If the applicant does not provide the requested information during the in-person meeting, you must collect the information on the basis of visual observation or surname. If the meeting occurs after the application process is complete, for example, at closing or account opening, you are not required to obtain the applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex.
13. When an applicant provides the requested information for some but not all fields, you report the information that was provided by the applicant, whether partial or complete. If an applicant provides partial or complete information on ethnicity, race, and sex and also checks the “I do not wish to provide this information” box on an application that is taken by mail or on the internet, or makes that selection when applying by telephone, you must report the information on ethnicity, race, and sex that was provided by the applicant.
Er13se17.000
[80 FR 66314, Oct. 28, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 43133, Sept. 13, 2017]
Pt. 1003, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 1003—Procedures for Generating a Check Digit and Validating a ULI
The check digit for the Universal Loan Identifier (ULI) pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(1)(i)(C) is calculated using the ISO/IEC 7064, MOD 97-10 as it appears on the International Standard ISO/IEC 7064:2003, which is published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).
©ISO. This material is reproduced from ISO/IEC 7064:2003 with permission of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) on behalf of ISO. All rights reserved.

# Generating a Check Digit
Step 1:
Starting with the leftmost character in the string that consists of the combination of the Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(1)(i)(A) and the additional characters identifying the covered loan or application pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(1)(i)(B), replace each alphabetic character with numbers in accordance with Table I below to obtain all numeric values in the string.

# Table I—Alphabetic to Numeric Conversion Table
The alphabetic characters are not case-sensitive and each letter, whether it is capitalized or in lower-case, is equal to the same value as each letter illustrates in the conversion table. For example, A and a are each equal to 10.
A = 10
B = 11
C = 12
D = 13
E = 14
F = 15
G = 16
H = 17
I = 18
J = 19
K = 20
L = 21
M = 22
N = 23
O = 24
P = 25
Q = 26
R = 27
S = 28
T = 29
U = 30
V = 31
W = 32
X = 33
Y = 34
Z = 35
Step 2:
After converting the combined string of characters to all numeric values, append two zeros to the rightmost positions.
Step 3:
Apply the mathematical function mod = (
n,
97) where
n =
the number obtained in step 2 above and 97 is the divisor.
Alternatively, to calculate without using the modulus operator, divide the numbers in step 2 above by 97. Truncate the remainder to three digits and multiply it by 97. Round the result to the nearest whole number.
Step 4:
Subtract the result in step 3 from 98. If the result is one digit, add a leading 0 to make it two digits.
Step 5:
The two digits in the result from step 4 is the check digit. Append the resulting check digit to the rightmost position in the combined string of characters described in step 1 above to generate the ULI.

# Example
For example, assume the LEI for a financial institution is 10Bx939c5543TqA1144M and the financial institution assigned the following string of characters to identify the covered loan: 999143X. The combined string of characters is 10Bx939c5543TqA1144M999143X.
Step 1:
Starting with the leftmost character in the combined string of characters, replace each alphabetic character with numbers in accordance with Table I above to obtain all numeric values in the string. The result is 10113393912554329261011442299914333.
Step 2:
Append two zeros to the rightmost positions in the combined string. The result is 1011339391255432926101144229991433300.
Step 3:
Apply the mathematical function mod = (
n,
97) where
n =
the number obtained in step 2 above and 97 is the divisor. The result is 60.
Alternatively, to calculate without using the modulus operator, divide the numbers in step 2 above by 97. The result is 1042617929129312294946332267952920.618556701030928. Truncate the remainder to three digits, which is .618, and multiply it by 97. The result is 59.946. Round this result to the nearest whole number, which is 60.
Step 4:
Subtract the result in step 3 from 98. The result is 38.
Step 5:
The two digits in the result from step 4 is the check digit. Append the check digit to the rightmost positions in the combined string of characters that consists of the LEI and the string of characters assigned by the financial institution to identify the covered loan to obtain the ULI. In this example, the ULI would be 10Bx939c5543TqA1144M999143X38.

# Validating A ULI
To determine whether the ULI contains a transcription error using the check digit calculation, the procedures are described below.
Step 1: Starting with the leftmost character in the ULI, replace each alphabetic character with numbers in accordance with Table I above to obtain all numeric values in the string.
Step 2: Apply the mathematical function mod=(
n,
97) where
n=
the number obtained in step 1 above and 97 is the divisor.
Step 3: If the result is 1, the ULI does not contain transcription errors.

# Example
For example, the ULI assigned to a covered loan is 10Bx939c5543TqA1144M999143X38.
Step 1: Starting with the leftmost character in the ULI, replace each alphabetic character with numbers in accordance with Table I above to obtain all numeric values in the string. The result is 1011339391255432926101144229991433338.
Step 2: Apply the mathematical function mod=(
n,
97) where
n
is the number obtained in step 1 above and 97 is the divisor.
Step 3: The result is 1. The ULI does not contain transcription errors.
[80 FR 66316, Oct. 28, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 43135, Sept. 13, 2017]
Pt. 1003, Supp. I

# Supplement I to Part 1003—Official Interpretations

# Introduction
1.
Status.
The commentary in this supplement is the vehicle by which the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection issues formal interpretations of Regulation C (12 CFR part 1003).

# Section 1003.2—Definitions

# 2(b) Application
1.
Consistency with Regulation B.
Bureau interpretations that appear in the official commentary to Regulation B (Equal Credit Opportunity Act, 12 CFR part 1002, Supplement I) are generally applicable to the definition of application under Regulation C. However, under Regulation C the definition of an application does not include prequalification requests.
2.
Prequalification.
A prequalification request is a request by a prospective loan applicant (other than a request for preapproval) for a preliminary determination on whether the prospective loan applicant would likely qualify for credit under an institution's standards, or for a determination on the amount of credit for which the prospective applicant would likely qualify. Some institutions evaluate prequalification requests through a procedure that is separate from the institution's normal loan application process; others use the same process. In either case, Regulation C does not require an institution to report prequalification requests on the loan/application register, even though these requests may constitute applications under Regulation B for purposes of adverse action notices.
3.
Requests for preapproval.
To be a preapproval program as defined in § 1003.2(b)(2), the written commitment issued under the program must result from a comprehensive review of the creditworthiness of the applicant, including such verification of income, resources, and other matters as is typically done by the institution as part of its normal credit evaluation program. In addition to conditions involving the identification of a suitable property and verification that no material change has occurred in the applicant's financial condition or creditworthiness, the written commitment may be subject only to other conditions (unrelated to the financial condition or creditworthiness of the applicant) that the lender ordinarily attaches to a traditional home mortgage application approval. These conditions are limited to conditions such as requiring an acceptable title insurance binder or a certificate indicating clear termite inspection, and, in the case where the applicant plans to use the proceeds from the sale of the applicant's present home to purchase a new home, a settlement statement showing adequate proceeds from the sale of the present home. Regardless of its name, a program that satisfies the definition of a preapproval program in § 1003.2(b)(2) is a preapproval program for purposes of Regulation C. Conversely, a program that a financial institution describes as a “preapproval program” that does not satisfy the requirements of § 1003.2(b)(2) is not a preapproval program for purposes of Regulation C. If a financial institution does not regularly use the procedures specified in § 1003.2(b)(2), but instead considers requests for preapprovals on an ad hoc basis, the financial institution need not treat ad hoc requests as part of a preapproval program for purposes of Regulation C. A financial institution should, however, be generally consistent in following uniform procedures for considering such ad hoc requests.

# 2(c) Branch Office

# Paragraph 2(c)(1)
1.
Credit unions.
For purposes of Regulation C, a “branch” of a credit union is any office where member accounts are established or loans are made, whether or not the office has been approved as a branch by a Federal or State agency. (See 12 U.S.C. 1752.)
2.
Bank, savings association, or credit unions.
A branch office of a bank, savings association, or credit union does not include a loan-production office if the loan-production office is not considered a branch by the Federal or State supervisory authority applicable to that institution. A branch office also does not include the office of an affiliate or
of a third party, such as a third-party broker.

# Paragraph 2(c)(2)
1. General.
A branch office of a for-profit mortgage lending institution, other than a bank savings association or credit union, does not include the office of an affiliate or of a third party, such as a third-party broker.

# 2(d) Closed-end Mortgage Loan
1.
Dwelling-secured.
Section 1003.2(d) defines a closed-end mortgage loan as an extension of credit that is secured by a lien on a dwelling and that is not an open-end line of credit under § 1003.2(o). Thus, for example, a loan to purchase a dwelling and secured only by a personal guarantee is not a closed-end mortgage loan because it is not dwelling-secured.
2.
Extension of credit.
Under § 1003.2(d), a dwelling-secured loan is not a closed-end mortgage loan unless it involves an extension of credit. For example, some transactions completed pursuant to installment sales contracts, such as some land contracts, depending on the facts and circumstances, may or may not involve extensions of credit rendering the transactions closed-end mortgage loans. In general, extension of credit under § 1003.2(d) refers to the granting of credit only pursuant to a new debt obligation. Thus, except as described in comments 2(d)-2.i and .ii, if a transaction modifies, renews, extends, or amends the terms of an existing debt obligation, but the existing debt obligation is not satisfied and replaced, the transaction is not a closed-end mortgage loan under § 1003.2(d) because there has been no new extension of credit. The phrase extension of credit thus is defined differently under Regulation C than under Regulation B, 12 CFR part 1002.
i.
Assumptions.
For purposes of Regulation C, an assumption is a transaction in which an institution enters into a written agreement accepting a new borrower in place of an existing borrower as the obligor on an existing debt obligation. For purposes of Regulation C, assumptions include successor-in-interest transactions, in which an individual succeeds the prior owner as the property owner and then assumes the existing debt secured by the property. Under § 1003.2(d), assumptions are extensions of credit even if the new borrower merely assumes the existing debt obligation and no new debt obligation is created.
See also
comment 2(j)-5.
ii.
New York State consolidation, extension, and modification agreements.
A transaction completed pursuant to a New York State consolidation, extension, and modification agreement and classified as a supplemental mortgage under New York Tax Law section 255, such that the borrower owes reduced or no mortgage recording taxes, is an extension of credit under § 1003.2(d). Comments 2(i)-1, 2(j)-5, and 2(p)-2 clarify whether such transactions are home improvement loans, home purchase loans, or refinancings, respectively. Section 1003.3(c)(13) provides an exclusion from the reporting requirement for a preliminary transaction providing or, in the case of an application, proposing to provide new funds to the borrower in advance of being consolidated within the same calendar year into a supplemental mortgage under New York Tax Law section 255. See comment 3(c)(13)-1 concerning how to report a supplemental mortgage under New York Tax Law section 255 in this situation.

# 2(f) Dwelling
1.
General.
The definition of a dwelling is not limited to the principal or other residence of the applicant or borrower, and thus includes vacation or second homes and investment properties.
2.
Multifamily residential structures and communities.
A dwelling also includes a multifamily residential structure or community such as an apartment, condominium, cooperative building or housing complex, or a manufactured home community. A loan related to a manufactured home community is secured by a dwelling for purposes of § 1003.2(f) even if it is not secured by any individual manufactured homes, but only by the land that constitutes the manufactured home community including sites for manufactured homes. However, a loan related to a multifamily residential structure or community that is not a manufactured home community is not secured by a dwelling for purposes of § 1003.2(f) if it is not secured by any individual dwelling units and is, for example, instead secured only by property that only includes common areas, or is secured only by an assignment of rents or dues.
3.
Exclusions.
Recreational vehicles, including boats, campers, travel trailers, and park model recreational vehicles, are not considered dwellings for purposes of § 1003.2(f), regardless of whether they are used as residences. Houseboats, floating homes, and mobile homes constructed before June 15, 1976, are also excluded, regardless of whether they are used as residences. Also excluded are transitory residences such as hotels, hospitals, college dormitories, and recreational vehicle parks, and structures originally designed as dwellings but used exclusively for commercial purposes, such as homes converted to daycare facilities or professional offices.
4.
Mixed-use properties.
A property used for both residential and commercial purposes, such as a building containing apartment units and retail space, is a dwelling if the property's primary use is residential. An institution may use any reasonable standard
to determine the primary use of the property, such as by square footage or by the income generated. An institution may select the standard to apply on a case-by-case basis.
5.
Properties with service and medical components.
For purposes of § 1003.2(f), a property used for both long-term housing and to provide related services, such as assisted living for senior citizens or supportive housing for persons with disabilities, is a dwelling and does not have a non-residential purpose merely because the property is used for both housing and to provide services. However, transitory residences that are used to provide such services are not dwellings.
See
comment 2(f)-3. Properties that are used to provide medical care, such as skilled nursing, rehabilitation, or long-term medical care, also are not dwellings.
See
comment 2(f)-3. If a property that is used for both long-term housing and to provide related services also is used to provide medical care, the property is a dwelling if its primary use is residential. An institution may use any reasonable standard to determine the property's primary use, such as by square footage, income generated, or number of beds or units allocated for each use. An institution may select the standard to apply on a case-by-case basis.

# 2(g) Financial Institution
1.
Preceding calendar year and preceding December 31.
The definition of financial institution refers both to the preceding calendar year and the preceding December 31. These terms refer to the calendar year and the December 31 preceding the current calendar year. For example, in 2019, the preceding calendar year is 2018 and the preceding December 31 is December 31, 2018. Accordingly, in 2019, Financial Institution A satisfies the asset-size threshold described in § 1003.2(g)(1)(i) if its assets exceeded the threshold specified in comment 2(g)-2 on December 31, 2018. Likewise, in 2020, Financial Institution A does not meet the loan-volume test described in § 1003.2(g)(1)(v)(A) if it originated fewer than 25 closed-end mortgage loans during either 2018 or 2019.
2.
Adjustment of exemption threshold for banks, savings associations, and credit unions.
For data collection in 2025, the asset-size exemption threshold is $58 million. Banks, savings associations, and credit unions with assets at or below $58 million as of December 31, 2024, are exempt from collecting data for 2025.
3. Merger or acquisition—coverage of surviving or newly formed institution.
After a merger or acquisition, the surviving or newly formed institution is a financial institution under § 1003.2(g) if it, considering the combined assets, location, and lending activity of the surviving or newly formed institution and the merged or acquired institutions or acquired branches, satisfies the criteria included in § 1003.2(g). For example, A and B merge. The surviving or newly formed institution meets the loan threshold described in § 1003.2(g)(1)(v)(B) if the surviving or newly formed institution, A, and B originated a combined total of at least 200 open-end lines of credit in each of the two preceding calendar years. Likewise, the surviving or newly formed institution meets the asset-size threshold in § 1003.2(g)(1)(i) if its assets and the combined assets of A and B on December 31 of the preceding calendar year exceeded the threshold described in § 1003.2(g)(1)(i). Comment 2(g)-4 discusses a financial institution's responsibilities during the calendar year of a merger.
4. Merger or acquisition—coverage for calendar year of merger or acquisition.
The scenarios described below illustrate a financial institution's responsibilities for the calendar year of a merger or acquisition. For purposes of these illustrations, a “covered institution” means a financial institution, as defined in § 1003.2(g), that is not exempt from reporting under § 1003.3(a), and “an institution that is not covered” means either an institution that is not a financial institution, as defined in § 1003.2(g), or an institution that is exempt from reporting under § 1003.3(a).
i. Two institutions that are not covered merge. The surviving or newly formed institution meets all of the requirements necessary to be a covered institution. No data collection is required for the calendar year of the merger (even though the merger creates an institution that meets all of the requirements necessary to be a covered institution). When a branch office of an institution that is not covered is acquired by another institution that is not covered, and the acquisition results in a covered institution, no data collection is required for the calendar year of the acquisition.
ii. A covered institution and an institution that is not covered merge. The covered institution is the surviving institution, or a new covered institution is formed. For the calendar year of the merger, data collection is required for covered loans and applications handled in the offices of the merged institution that was previously covered and is optional for covered loans and applications handled in offices of the merged institution that was previously not covered. When a covered institution acquires a branch office of an institution that is not covered, data collection is optional for covered loans and applications handled by the acquired branch office for the calendar year of the acquisition.
iii. A covered institution and an institution that is not covered merge. The institution that is not covered is the surviving institution, or a new institution that is not covered is formed. For the calendar year of the merger, data collection is required for
covered loans and applications handled in offices of the previously covered institution that took place prior to the merger. After the merger date, data collection is optional for covered loans and applications handled in the offices of the institution that was previously covered. When an institution remains not covered after acquiring a branch office of a covered institution, data collection is required for transactions of the acquired branch office that take place prior to the acquisition. Data collection by the acquired branch office is optional for transactions taking place in the remainder of the calendar year after the acquisition.
iv. Two covered institutions merge. The surviving or newly formed institution is a covered institution. Data collection is required for the entire calendar year of the merger. The surviving or newly formed institution files either a consolidated submission or separate submissions for that calendar year. When a covered institution acquires a branch office of a covered institution, data collection is required for the entire calendar year of the merger. Data for the acquired branch office may be submitted by either institution.
5. Originations.
Whether an institution is a financial institution depends in part on whether the institution originated at least 25 closed-end mortgage loans in each of the two preceding calendar years or at least 200 open-end lines of credit in each of the two preceding calendar years. Comments 4(a)-2 through -4 discuss whether activities with respect to a particular closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit constitute an origination for purposes of § 1003.2(g).
6. Branches of foreign banks—treated as banks.
A Federal branch or a State-licensed or insured branch of a foreign bank that meets the definition of a “bank” under section 3(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(a)) is a bank for the purposes of § 1003.2(g).
7. Branches and offices of foreign banks and other entities—treated as nondepository financial institutions.
A Federal agency, State-licensed agency, State-licensed uninsured branch of a foreign bank, commercial lending company owned or controlled by a foreign bank, or entity operating under section 25 or 25A of the Federal Reserve Act, 12 U.S.C. 601 and 611 (Edge Act and agreement corporations) may not meet the definition of “bank” under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and may thereby fail to satisfy the definition of a depository financial institution under § 1003.2(g)(1). An entity is nonetheless a financial institution if it meets the definition of nondepository financial institution under § 1003.2(g)(2).

# 2(i) Home Improvement Loan
1.
General.
Section 1003.2(i) defines a home improvement loan as a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit that is for the purpose, in whole or in part, of repairing, rehabilitating, remodeling, or improving a dwelling or the real property on which the dwelling is located. For example, a closed-end mortgage loan obtained to repair a dwelling by replacing a roof is a home improvement loan under § 1003.2(i). A loan or line of credit is a home improvement loan even if only a part of the purpose is for repairing, rehabilitating, remodeling, or improving a dwelling. For example, an open-end line of credit obtained in part to remodel a kitchen and in part to pay college tuition is a home improvement loan under § 1003.2(i). Similarly, for example, a loan that is completed pursuant to a New York State consolidation, extension, and modification agreement and that is classified as a supplemental mortgage under New York Tax Law section 255, such that the borrower owes reduced or no mortgage recording taxes, is a home improvement loan if any of the loan's funds are for home improvement purposes.
See also
comment 2(d)-2.ii.
2.
Improvements to real property.
Home improvements include improvements both to a dwelling and to the real property on which the dwelling is located (for example, installation of a swimming pool, construction of a garage, or landscaping).
3.
Commercial and other loans.
A home improvement loan may include a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit originated outside an institution's residential mortgage lending division, such as a loan or line of credit to improve an apartment building originated in the commercial loan department.
4.
Mixed-use property.
A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit to improve a multifamily dwelling used for residential and commercial purposes (for example, a building containing apartment units and retail space), or the real property on which such a dwelling is located, is a home improvement loan if the loan's proceeds are used either to improve the entire property (for example, to replace the heating system), or if the proceeds are used primarily to improve the residential portion of the property. An institution may use any reasonable standard to determine the primary use of the loan proceeds. An institution may select the standard to apply on a case-by-case basis. See comment 3(c)(10)-3.ii for guidance on loans to improve primarily the commercial portion of a dwelling other than a multifamily dwelling.
5.
Multiple-purpose loans.
A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit may be used for multiple purposes. For example, a closed-end mortgage loan that is a home improvement loan under § 1003.2(i) may also be a refinancing under § 1003.2(p) if the transaction is a cash-out refinancing and the funds will be used to improve a home. Such
a transaction is a multiple-purpose loan. Comment 4(a)(3)-3 provides details about how to report multiple-purpose covered loans.
6.
Statement of borrower.
In determining whether a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit, or an application for a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit, is for home improvement purposes, an institution may rely on the applicant's or borrower's stated purpose(s) for the loan or line of credit at the time the application is received or the credit decision is made. An institution need not confirm that the borrower actually uses any of the funds for the stated purpose(s).

# 2(j) Home Purchase Loan
1.
Multiple properties.
A home purchase loan includes a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit secured by one dwelling and used to purchase another dwelling. For example, if a person obtains a home-equity loan or a reverse mortgage secured by dwelling A to purchase dwelling B, the home-equity loan or the reverse mortgage is a home purchase loan under § 1003.2(j).
2.
Commercial and other loans.
A home purchase loan may include a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit originated outside an institution's residential mortgage lending division, such as a loan or line of credit to purchase an apartment building originated in the commercial loan department.
3.
Construction and permanent financing.
A home purchase loan includes both a combined construction/permanent loan or line of credit, and the separate permanent financing that replaces a construction-only loan or line of credit for the same borrower at a later time. A home purchase loan does not include a construction-only loan or line of credit that is designed to be replaced by separate permanent financing extended by any financial institution to the same borrower at a later time or that is extended to a person exclusively to construct a dwelling for sale, which are excluded from Regulation C as temporary financing under § 1003.3(c)(3). Comments 3(c)(3)-1 and -2 provide additional details about transactions that are excluded as temporary financing.
4.
Second mortgages that finance the downpayments on first mortgages.
If an institution making a first mortgage loan to a home purchaser also makes a second mortgage loan or line of credit to the same purchaser to finance part or all of the home purchaser's downpayment, both the first mortgage loan and the second mortgage loan or line of credit are home purchase loans.
5.
Assumptions.
Under § 1003.2(j), an assumption is a home purchase loan when an institution enters into a written agreement accepting a new borrower as the obligor on an existing obligation to finance the new borrower's purchase of the dwelling securing the existing obligation, if the resulting obligation is a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit. A transaction in which borrower B finances the purchase of borrower A's dwelling by assuming borrower A's existing debt obligation and that is completed pursuant to a New York State consolidation, extension, and modification agreement and is classified as a supplemental mortgage under New York Tax Law section 255, such that the borrower owes reduced or no mortgage recording taxes, is an assumption and a home purchase loan.
See
comment 2(d)-2.ii. On the other hand, a transaction in which borrower B, a successor-in-interest, assumes borrower A's existing debt obligation only after acquiring title to borrower A's dwelling is not a home purchase loan because borrower B did not assume the debt obligation for the purpose of purchasing a dwelling.
See
§ 1003.4(a)(3) and comment 4(a)(3)-4 for guidance about how to report covered loans that are not home improvement loans, home purchase loans, or refinancings.
6.
Multiple-purpose loans.
A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit may be used for multiple purposes. For example, a closed-end mortgage loan that is a home purchase loan under § 1003.2(j) may also be a home improvement loan under § 1003.2(i) and a refinancing under § 1003.2(p) if the transaction is a cash-out refinancing and the funds will be used to purchase and improve a dwelling. Such a transaction is a multiple-purpose loan. Comment 4(a)(3)-3 provides details about how to report multiple-purpose covered loans.

# 2(l) Manufactured Home
1.
Definition of a manufactured home.
The definition in § 1003.2(l) refers to the Federal building code for manufactured housing established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) (24 CFR part 3280.2). Modular or other factory-built homes that do not meet the HUD code standards are not manufactured homes for purposes of § 1003.2(l). Recreational vehicles are excluded from the HUD code standards pursuant to 24 CFR 3282.8(g) and are also excluded from the definition of dwelling for purposes of § 1003.2(f).
See
comment 2(f)-3.
2.
Identification.
A manufactured home will generally bear a data plate affixed in a permanent manner near the main electrical panel or other readily accessible and visible location noting its compliance with the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards in force at the time of manufacture and providing other information about its manufacture pursuant to 24 CFR 3280.5. A manufactured home will generally also bear a HUD Certification Label pursuant to 24 CFR 3280.11.

# 2(m) Metropolitan Statistical Area (MD) or Metropolitan Division (MD).
1.
Use of terms “Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA)” and “Metropolitan Division (MD).”
The U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) defines Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) and Metropolitan Divisions (MDs) to provide nationally consistent definitions for collecting, tabulating, and publishing Federal statistics for a set of geographic areas. For all purposes under Regulation C, if an MSA is divided by OMB into MDs, the appropriate geographic unit to be used is the MD; if an MSA is not so divided by OMB into MDs, the appropriate geographic unit to be used is the MSA.

# 2(n) Multifamily Dwelling
1.
Multifamily residential structures.
The definition of dwelling in § 1003.2(f) includes multifamily residential structures and the corresponding commentary provides guidance on when such residential structures are included in that definition.
See
comments 2(f)-2 through -5.
2.
Special reporting requirements for multifamily dwellings.
The definition of multifamily dwelling in § 1003.2(n) includes a dwelling, regardless of construction method, that contains five or more individual dwelling units. Covered loans secured by a multifamily dwelling are subject to additional reporting requirements under § 1003.4(a)(32), but are not subject to reporting requirements under § 1003.4(a)(4), (10)(iii), (23), (29), or (30).
3.
Separate dwellings.
A covered loan secured by five or more separate dwellings, which are not multifamily dwellings, in more than one location is not a loan secured by a multifamily dwelling. For example, assume a landlord uses a covered loan to improve five or more dwellings, each with one individual dwelling unit, located in different parts of a town, and the loan is secured by those properties. The covered loan is not secured by a multifamily dwelling as defined by § 1003.2(n). Likewise, a covered loan secured by five or more separate dwellings that are located within a multifamily dwelling, but which is not secured by the entire multifamily dwelling (
e.g.,
an entire apartment building or housing complex), is not secured by a multifamily dwelling as defined by § 1003.2(n). For example, assume that an investor purchases 10 individual unit condominiums in a 100-unit condominium complex using a covered loan. The covered loan would not be secured by a multifamily dwelling as defined by § 1003.2(n). In both of these situations, a financial institution reporting a covered loan or application secured by these separate dwellings would not be subject to the additional reporting requirements for covered loans secured by or applications proposed to be secured by multifamily dwellings under § 1003.4(a)(32). However, a financial institution would report the information required by § 1003.4(a)(4), (a)(10)(iii), and (a)(23), (29), and (30), which is not applicable to covered loans secured by and applications proposed to be secured by multifamily dwellings. See comment 2(n)-2. In addition, in both of these situations, the financial institution reports the number of individual dwelling units securing the covered loan or proposed to secure a covered loan as required by § 1003.4(a)(31). See comment 4(a)(31)-3.

# 2(o) Open-End Line of Credit
1.
General.
Section 1003.2(o) defines an open-end line of credit as an extension of credit that is secured by a lien on a dwelling and that is an open-end credit plan as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(20), but without regard to whether the credit is consumer credit, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(12), is extended by a creditor, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(17), or is extended to a consumer, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(11). Aside from these distinctions, institutions may rely on 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(20) and its related commentary in determining whether a transaction is an open-end line of credit under § 1003.2(o). For example, assume a business-purpose transaction that is exempt from Regulation Z pursuant to § 1026.3(a)(1) but that otherwise is open-end credit under Regulation Z § 1026.2(a)(20). The business-purpose transaction is an open-end line of credit under Regulation C, provided the other requirements of § 1003.2(o) are met. Similarly, assume a transaction in which the person extending open-end credit is a financial institution under § 1003.2(g) but is not a creditor under Regulation Z, § 1026.2(a)(17). In this example, the transaction is an open-end line of credit under Regulation C, provided the other requirements of § 1003.2(o) are met.
2.
Extension of credit.
Extension of credit has the same meaning under § 1003.2(o) as under § 1003.2(d) and comment 2(d)-2. Thus, for example, a renewal of an open-end line of credit is not an extension of credit under § 1003.2(o) and is not covered by Regulation C unless the existing debt obligation is satisfied and replaced. Likewise, under § 1003.2(o), each draw on an open-end line of credit is not an extension of credit.

# 2(p) Refinancing
1.
General.
Section 1003.2(p) defines a refinancing as a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit in which a new, dwelling-secured debt obligation satisfies and replaces an existing, dwelling-secured debt obligation by the same borrower. Except as described in comment 2(p)-2, whether a refinancing has occurred is determined by reference to whether, based on the parties' contract and applicable law, the original debt obligation has been satisfied or replaced by a
new debt obligation. Whether the original lien is satisfied is irrelevant. For example:
i. A new closed-end mortgage loan that satisfies and replaces one or more existing closed-end mortgage loans is a refinancing under § 1003.2(p).
ii. A new open-end line of credit that satisfies and replaces an existing closed-end mortgage loan is a refinancing under § 1003.2(p).
iii. Except as described in comment 2(p)-2, a new debt obligation that renews or modifies the terms of, but that does not satisfy and replace, an existing debt obligation, is not a refinancing under § 1003.2(p).
2.
New York State consolidation, extension, and modification agreements.
Where a transaction is completed pursuant to a New York State consolidation, extension, and modification agreement and is classified as a supplemental mortgage under New York Tax Law section§ 255, such that the borrower owes reduced or no mortgage recording taxes, and where, but for the agreement, the transaction would have met the definition of a refinancing under § 1003.2(p), the transaction is considered a refinancing under § 1003.2(p).
See also
comment 2(d)-2.ii.
3.
Existing debt obligation.
A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit that satisfies and replaces one or more existing debt obligations is not a refinancing under § 1003.2(p) unless the existing debt obligation (or obligations) also was secured by a dwelling. For example, assume that a borrower has an existing $30,000 closed-end mortgage loan and obtains a new $50,000 closed-end mortgage loan that satisfies and replaces the existing $30,000 loan. The new $50,000 loan is a refinancing under § 1003.2(p). However, if the borrower obtains a new $50,000 closed-end mortgage loan that satisfies and replaces an existing $30,000 loan secured only by a personal guarantee, the new $50,000 loan is not a refinancing under § 1003.2(p).
See
§ 1003.4(a)(3) and related commentary for guidance about how to report the loan purpose of such transactions, if they are not otherwise excluded under § 1003.3(c).
4.
Same borrower.
Section 1003.2(p) provides that, even if all of the other requirements of § 1003.2(p) are met, a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit is not a refinancing unless the same borrower undertakes both the existing and the new obligation(s). Under § 1003.2(p), the “same borrower” undertakes both the existing and the new obligation(s) even if only one borrower is the same on both obligations. For example, assume that an existing closed-end mortgage loan (obligation X) is satisfied and replaced by a new closed-end mortgage loan (obligation Y). If borrowers A and B both are obligated on obligation X, and only borrower B is obligated on obligation Y, then obligation Y is a refinancing under § 1003.2(p), assuming the other requirements of § 1003.2(p) are met, because borrower B is obligated on both transactions. On the other hand, if only borrower A is obligated on obligation X, and only borrower B is obligated on obligation Y, then obligation Y is not a refinancing under § 1003.2(p). For example, assume that two spouses are divorcing. If both spouses are obligated on obligation X, but only one spouse is obligated on obligation Y, then obligation Y is a refinancing under § 1003.2(p), assuming the other requirements of § 1003.2(p) are met. On the other hand, if only spouse A is obligated on obligation X, and only spouse B is obligated on obligation Y, then obligation Y is not a refinancing under § 1003.2(p).
See
§ 1003.4(a)(3) and related commentary for guidance about how to report the loan purpose of such transactions, if they are not otherwise excluded under § 1003.3(c).
5.
Two or more debt obligations.
Section 1003.2(p) provides that, to be a refinancing, a new debt obligation must satisfy and replace an existing debt obligation. Where two or more new obligations replace an existing obligation, each new obligation is a refinancing if, taken together, the new obligations satisfy the existing obligation. Similarly, where one new obligation replaces two or more existing obligations, the new obligation is a refinancing if it satisfies each of the existing obligations.
6.
Multiple-purpose loans.
A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit may be used for multiple purposes. For example, a closed-end mortgage loan that is a refinancing under § 1003.2(p) may also be a home improvement loan under § 1003.2(i) and be used for other purposes if the refinancing is a cash-out refinancing and the funds will be used both for home improvement and to pay college tuition. Such a transaction is a multiple-purpose loan. Comment 4(a)(3)-3 provides details about how to report multiple-purpose covered loans.

# Section 1003.3—Exempt Institutions and Excluded and Partially Exempt Transactions

# 3(c) Excluded Transactions

# Paragraph 3(c)(1)
1.
Financial institution acting in a fiduciary capacity.
Section 1003.3(c)(1) provides that a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit originated or purchased by a financial institution acting in a fiduciary capacity is an excluded transaction. A financial institution acts in a fiduciary capacity if, for example, the financial institution acts as a trustee.

# Paragraph 3(c)(2)
1.
Loan or line of credit secured by a lien on unimproved land.
Section 1003.3(c)(2) provides that a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit secured by a lien on unimproved land is an excluded transaction. A
loan or line of credit is secured by a lien on unimproved land if the loan or line of credit is secured by vacant or unimproved property, unless the institution knows, based on information that it receives from the applicant or borrower at the time the application is received or the credit decision is made, that the proceeds of that loan or credit line will be used within two years after closing or account opening to construct a dwelling on, or to purchase a dwelling to be placed on, the land. A loan or line of credit that is not excludable under § 1003.3(c)(2) nevertheless may be excluded, for example, as temporary financing under § 1003.3(c)(3).

# Paragraph 3(c)(3)
1. Temporary financing.
Section 1003.3(c)(3) provides that closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit obtained for temporary financing are excluded transactions. A loan or line of credit is considered temporary financing and excluded under § 1003.3(c)(3) if the loan or line of credit is designed to be replaced by separate permanent financing extended by any financial institution to the same borrower at a later time. For example:
i. Lender A extends credit in the form of a bridge or swing loan to finance a borrower's down payment on a home purchase. The borrower pays off the bridge or swing loan with funds from the sale of his or her existing home and obtains permanent financing for his or her new home from Lender A or from another lender. The bridge or swing loan is excluded as temporary financing under § 1003.3(c)(3).
ii. Lender A extends credit to a borrower to finance construction of a dwelling. The borrower will obtain a new extension of credit for permanent financing for the dwelling, either from Lender A or from another lender, and either through a refinancing of the initial construction loan or a separate loan. The initial construction loan is excluded as temporary financing under § 1003.3(c)(3).
iii. Assume the same scenario as in comment 3(c)(3)-1.ii, except that the initial construction loan is, or may be, renewed one or more times before the separate permanent financing is obtained. The initial construction loan, including any renewal thereof, is excluded as temporary financing under § 1003.3(c)(3).
iv. Lender A extends credit to finance construction of a dwelling. The loan automatically will convert to permanent financing extended to the same borrower with Lender A once the construction phase is complete. Under § 1003.3(c)(3), the loan is not designed to be replaced by separate permanent financing extended to the same borrower, and therefore the temporary financing exclusion does not apply.
See also
comment 2(j)-3.
v. Lender A originates a loan with a nine-month term to enable an investor to purchase a home, renovate it, and re-sell it before the term expires. Under § 1003.3(c)(3), the loan is not designed to be replaced by separate permanent financing extended to the same borrower, and therefore the temporary financing exclusion does not apply. Such a transaction is not temporary financing under § 1003.3(c)(3) merely because its term is short.
2.
Loan or line of credit to construct a dwelling for sale.
A construction-only loan or line of credit is considered temporary financing and excluded under § 1003.3(c)(3) if the loan or line of credit is extended to a person exclusively to construct a dwelling for sale. See comment 3(c)(3)-1.ii through .iv for examples of the reporting requirement for construction loans that are not extended to a person exclusively to construct a dwelling for sale.

# Paragraph 3(c)(4)
1.
Purchase of an interest in a pool of loans.
Section 1003.3(c)(4) provides that the purchase of an interest in a pool of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit is an excluded transaction. The purchase of an interest in a pool of loans or lines of credit includes, for example, mortgage-participation certificates, mortgage-backed securities, or real estate mortgage investment conduits.

# Paragraph 3(c)(6)
1.
Mergers and acquisitions.
Section 1003.3(c)(6) provides that the purchase of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit as part of a merger or acquisition, or as part of the acquisition of all of the assets and liabilities of a branch office, are excluded transactions. If a financial institution acquires loans or lines of credit in bulk from another institution (for example, from the receiver for a failed institution), but no merger or acquisition of an institution, or acquisition of a branch office, is involved and no other exclusion applies, the acquired loans or lines of credit are covered loans and are reported as described in comment 4(a)-1.iii.

# Paragraph 3(c)(8)
1.
Partial interest.
Section 1003.3(c)(8) provides that the purchase of a partial interest in a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit is an excluded transaction. If an institution acquires only a partial interest in a loan or line of credit, the institution does not report the transaction even if the institution participated in the underwriting and origination of the loan or line of credit. If an institution acquires a 100 percent interest in a loan or line of credit, the transaction is not excluded under § 1003.3(c)(8).

# Paragraph 3(c)(9)
1.
Loan or line of credit used primarily for agricultural purposes.
Section 1003.3(c)(9) provides that an institution does not report a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit used primarily for agricultural purposes. A loan or line of credit is used primarily for agricultural purposes if its funds will be used primarily for agricultural purposes, or if the loan or line of credit is secured by a dwelling that is located on real property that is used primarily for agricultural purposes (
e.g.,
a farm). An institution may refer to comment 3(a)-8 in the official interpretations of Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026, supplement I, for guidance on what is an agricultural purpose. An institution may use any reasonable standard to determine the primary use of the property. An institution may select the standard to apply on a case-by-case basis.

# Paragraph 3(c)(10)
1.
General.
Section 1003.3(c)(10) provides a special rule for reporting a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit that is or will be made primarily for a business or commercial purpose. If an institution determines that a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit primarily is for a business or commercial purpose, then the loan or line of credit is a covered loan only if it is a home improvement loan under § 1003.2(i), a home purchase loan under § 1003.2(j), or a refinancing under § 1003.2(p) and no other exclusion applies. Section 1003.3(c)(10) does not categorically exclude all business- or commercial-purpose loans and lines of credit from coverage.
2.
Primary purpose.
An institution must determine in each case if a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit primarily is for a business or commercial purpose. If a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit is deemed to be primarily for a business, commercial, or organizational purpose under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.3(a) and its related commentary, then the loan or line of credit also is deemed to be primarily for a business or commercial purpose under § 1003.3(c)(10).
3.
Examples—covered business- or commercial-purpose transactions.
The following are examples of closed-end mortgage loans and open-end lines of credit that are not excluded from reporting under § 1003.3(c)(10) because, although they primarily are for a business or commercial purpose, they also meet the definition of a home improvement loan under § 1003.2(i), a home purchase loan under § 1003.2(j), or a refinancing under § 1003.2(p):
i. A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit to purchase or to improve a multifamily dwelling or a single-family investment property, or a refinancing of a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit secured by a multifamily dwelling or a single-family investment property;
ii. A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit to improve a doctor's office or a daycare center that is located in a dwelling other than a multifamily dwelling; and
iii. A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit to a corporation, if the funds from the loan or line of credit will be used to purchase or to improve a dwelling, or if the transaction is a refinancing.
4.
Examples—excluded business- or commercial-purpose transactions.
The following are examples of closed-end mortgage loans and open-end lines of credit that are not covered loans because they primarily are for a business or commercial purpose, but they do not meet the definition of a home improvement loan under § 1003.2(i), a home purchase loan under § 1003.2(j), or a refinancing under § 1003.2(p):
i. A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit whose funds will be used primarily to improve or expand a business, for example to renovate a family restaurant that is not located in a dwelling, or to purchase a warehouse, business equipment, or inventory;
ii. A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit to a corporation whose funds will be used primarily for business purposes, such as to purchase inventory; and
iii. A closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit whose funds will be used primarily for business or commercial purposes other than home purchase, home improvement, or refinancing, even if the loan or line of credit is cross-collateralized by a covered loan.

# Paragraph 3(c)(11)
1.
General.
Section 1003.3(c)(11) provides that a closed-end mortgage loan is an excluded transaction if a financial institution originated fewer than 25 closed-end mortgage loans in either of the two preceding calendar years. For example, assume that a bank is a financial institution in 2018 under § 1003.2(g) because it originated 600 open-end lines of credit in 2016, 650 open-end lines of credit in 2017, and met all of the other requirements under § 1003.2(g)(1). Also assume that the bank originated 10 and 20 closed-end mortgage loans in 2016 and 2017, respectively. The open-end lines of credit that the bank originated or purchased, or for which it received applications, during 2018 are covered loans and must be reported, unless they otherwise are excluded transactions under § 1003.3(c). However, the closed-end mortgage loans that the bank originated or purchased, or for which it received applications, during 2018 are excluded transactions under § 1003.3(c)(11) and need not be reported. See comments 4(a)-2 through -4 for guidance about the activities that constitute an origination.
2.
Optional reporting.
A financial institution may report applications for, originations of, or purchases of closed-end mortgage loans that are excluded transactions because the financial institution originated fewer than 25 closed-end mortgage loans in either of the two preceding calendar years. However, a financial institution that chooses to report such excluded applications for, originations of, or purchases of closed-end mortgage loans must report all such applications for closed-end mortgage loans that it receives, closed-end mortgage loans that it originates, and closed-end mortgage loans that it purchases that otherwise would be covered loans for a given calendar year. Note that applications which remain pending at the end of a calendar year are not reported, as described in comment 4(a)(8)(i)-14.

# Paragraph 3(c)(12)
1.
General.
Section 1003.3(c)(12) provides that an open-end line of credit is an excluded transaction if a financial institution originated fewer than 200 open-end lines of credit in either of the two preceding calendar years. For example, assume that a bank is a financial institution in 2022 under § 1003.2(g) because it originated 100 closed-end mortgage loans in 2020, 175 closed-end mortgage loans in 2021, and met all of the other requirements under § 1003.2(g)(1). Also assume that the bank originated 175 and 185 open-end lines of credit in 2020 and 2021, respectively. The closed-end mortgage loans that the bank originated or purchased, or for which it received applications, during 2022 are covered loans and must be reported, unless they otherwise are excluded transactions under § 1003.3(c). However, the open-end lines of credit that the bank originated or purchased, or for which it received applications, during 2022 are excluded transactions under § 1003.3(c)(12) and need not be reported. See comments 4(a)-2 through -4 for guidance about the activities that constitute an origination.
2.
Optional reporting.
A financial institution may report applications for, originations of, or purchases of open-end lines of credit that are excluded transactions because the financial institution originated fewer than 200 open-end lines of credit in either of the two preceding calendar years. However, a financial institution that chooses to report such excluded applications for, originations of, or purchases of open-end lines of credit must report all such applications for open-end lines of credit which it receives, open-end lines of credit that it originates, and open-end lines of credit that it purchases that otherwise would be covered loans for a given calendar year. Note that applications which remain pending at the end of a calendar year are not reported, as described in comment 4(a)(8)(i)-14.

# Paragraph 3(c)(13)
1.
New funds extended before consolidation.
Section 1003.3(c)(13) provides an exclusion for a transaction that provided or, in the case of an application, proposed to provide new funds to the borrower in advance of being consolidated in a New York State consolidation, extension, and modification agreement classified as a supplemental mortgage under New York Tax Law section 255 (New York CEMA) and for which final action is taken on both transactions within the same calendar year. The excluded transaction provides or proposes to provide funds that are not part of any existing debt obligation of the borrower and that are then consolidated or proposed to be consolidated with an existing debt obligation or obligations as part of the supplemental mortgage. The new funds are reported only insofar as they form part of the total amount of the reported New York CEMA, and not as a separate amount. This exclusion applies only if, at the time the transaction that provided new funds was originated, the financial institution intended to consolidate the loan into a New York CEMA. If a New York CEMA that consolidates an excluded preliminary transaction is carried out in a transaction involving an assumption, the financial institution reports the New York CEMA and does not report the preliminary transaction separately. The § 1003.3(c)(13) exclusion does not apply to similar preliminary transactions that provide or propose to provide new funds to be consolidated not pursuant to New York Tax Law section 255 but under some other law in a transaction that is not an extension of credit. For example, assume a financial institution extends new funds to a consumer in a preliminary transaction that is then consolidated as part of a consolidation, extension and modification agreement pursuant to the law of a State other than New York. If the preliminary extension of new funds is a covered loan, it must be reported. If the consolidation, extension and modification agreement pursuant to the law of a State other than New York is not an extension of credit pursuant to Regulation C, it may not be reported. For discussion of how to report a cash-out refinancing, see comment 4(a)(3)-2.

# 3(d) Partially Exempt Transactions
1.
Merger or acquisition—application of partial exemption thresholds to surviving or newly formed institution.
After a merger or acquisition, the surviving or newly formed institution falls below the loan threshold described in § 1003.3(d)(2) or (3) if it, considering the combined lending activity of the surviving or newly formed institution and the merged or acquired institutions or acquired branches, falls below the loan threshold described in § 1003.3(d)(2) or (3). For example, A and B merge. The surviving or newly formed
institution falls below the loan threshold described in § 1003.3(d)(2) if the surviving or newly formed institution, A, and B originated a combined total of fewer than 500 closed-end mortgage loans that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) or (c)(13) in each of the two preceding calendar years. Comment 3(d)-3 discusses eligibility for partial exemptions during the calendar year of a merger.
2.
Merger or acquisition—Community Reinvestment Act examination history.
After a merger or acquisition, the surviving or newly formed institution is deemed to be ineligible for the partial exemptions pursuant to § 1003.3(d)(6) if either it or any of the merged or acquired institutions received a rating of “needs to improve record of meeting community credit needs” during each of its two most recent examinations or a rating of “substantial noncompliance in meeting community credit needs” on its most recent examination under section 807(b)(2) of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2906(b)(2)). Comment 3(d)-3.iii discusses eligibility for partial exemptions during the calendar year of a merger when an institution that is eligible for a partial exemption merges with an institution that is ineligible for the partial exemption (including, for example, an institution that is ineligible for the partial exemptions pursuant to § 1003.3(d)(6)) and the surviving or newly formed institution is ineligible for the partial exemption.
3.
Merger or acquisition—applicability of partial exemptions during calendar year of merger or acquisition.
The scenarios described below illustrate the applicability of partial exemptions under § 1003.3(d) during the calendar year of a merger or acquisition. For purposes of these illustrations, “institution” means a financial institution, as defined in § 1003.2(g), that is not exempt from reporting under § 1003.3(a). Although the scenarios below refer to the partial exemption for closed-end mortgage loans under § 1003.3(d)(2), the same principles apply with respect to the partial exemption for open-end lines of credit under § 1003.3(d)(3).
i. Assume two institutions that are eligible for the partial exemption for closed-end mortgage loans merge and the surviving or newly formed institution meets all of the requirements for the partial exemption. The partial exemption for closed-end mortgage loans applies for the calendar year of the merger.
ii. Assume two institutions that are eligible for the partial exemption for closed-end mortgage loans merge and the surviving or newly formed institution does not meet the requirements for the partial exemption. Collection of optional data for closed-end mortgage loans is permitted but not required for the calendar year of the merger (even though the merger creates an institution that does not meet the requirements for the partial exemption for closed-end mortgage loans). When a branch office of an institution that is eligible for the partial exemption is acquired by another institution that is eligible for the partial exemption, and the acquisition results in an institution that is not eligible for the partial exemption, data collection for closed-end mortgage loans is permitted but not required for the calendar year of the acquisition.
iii. Assume an institution that is eligible for the partial exemption for closed-end mortgage loans merges with an institution that is ineligible for the partial exemption and the surviving or newly formed institution is ineligible for the partial exemption. For the calendar year of the merger, collection of optional data as defined in § 1003.3(d)(1)(iii) for closed-end mortgage loans is required for covered loans and applications handled in the offices of the merged institution that was previously ineligible for the partial exemption. For the calendar year of the merger, collection of optional data for closed-end mortgage loans is permitted but not required for covered loans and applications handled in the offices of the merged institution that was previously eligible for the partial exemption. When an institution that is ineligible for the partial exemption for closed-end mortgage loans acquires a branch office of an institution that is eligible for the partial exemption, collection of optional data for closed-end mortgage loans is permitted but not required for covered loans and applications handled by the acquired branch office for the calendar year of the acquisition.
iv. Assume an institution that is eligible for the partial exemption for closed-end mortgage loans merges with an institution that is ineligible for the partial exemption and the surviving or newly formed institution is eligible for the partial exemption. For the calendar year of the merger, collection of optional data for closed-end mortgage loans is required for covered loans and applications handled in the offices of the previously ineligible institution that took place prior to the merger. After the merger date, collection of optional data for closed-end mortgage loans is permitted but not required for covered loans and applications handled in the offices of the institution that was previously ineligible for the partial exemption. When an institution remains eligible for the partial exemption for closed-end mortgage loans after acquiring a branch office of an institution that is ineligible for the partial exemption, collection of optional data for closed-end mortgage loans is required for transactions of the acquired branch office that take place prior to the acquisition. Collection of optional data for closed-end mortgage loans by the acquired branch office is permitted but not required for transactions
taking place in the remainder of the calendar year after the acquisition.
4.
Originations.
Whether applications for covered loans that an insured depository institution or insured credit union receives, covered loans that it originates, or covered loans that it purchases are partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d) depends, in part, on whether the institution originated fewer than 500 closed-end mortgage loans that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) or (c)(13) in each of the two preceding calendar years or fewer than 500 open-end lines of credit that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) in each of the two preceding calendar years. See comments 4(a)-2 through -4 for guidance about the activities that constitute an origination for purposes of § 1003.3(d).
5.
Affiliates.
A financial institution that is not itself an insured credit union or an insured depository institution as defined in § 1003.3(d)(1)(i) and (ii) is not eligible for the partial exemptions under § 1003.3(d)(1) through (3), even if it is owned by or affiliated with an insured credit union or an insured depository institution. For example, an institution that is a subsidiary of an insured credit union or insured depository institution may not claim a partial exemption under § 1003.3(d) for its closed-end mortgage loans unless the subsidiary institution itself:
i. Is an insured credit union or insured depository institution,
ii. In each of the two preceding calendar years originated fewer than 500 closed-end mortgage loans that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) or (c)(13), and
iii. If the subsidiary is an insured depository institution, had not received as of the preceding December 31 a rating of “needs to improve record of meeting community credit needs” during each of its two most recent examinations or a rating of “substantial noncompliance in meeting community credit needs” on its most recent examination under section 807(b)(2) of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2906(b)(2)).

# Paragraph 3(d)(1)(iii)
1.
Optional data.
The definition of optional data in § 1003.3(d)(1)(iii) identifies the data that are covered by the partial exemptions for certain transactions of insured depository institutions and insured credit unions under § 1003.3(d). If a transaction is not partially exempt under § 1003.3(d)(2) or (3), a financial institution must collect, record, and report optional data as otherwise required under this part.

# Paragraph 3(d)(2)
1.
General.
Section 1003.3(d)(2) provides that, except as provided in § 1003.3(d)(6), an insured depository institution or insured credit union that, in each of the two preceding calendar years, originated fewer than 500 closed-end mortgage loans that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) or (c)(13) is not required to collect, record, or report optional data as defined in § 1003.3(d)(1)(iii) for applications for closed-end mortgage loans that it receives, closed-end mortgage loans that it originates, and closed-end mortgage loans that it purchases. For example, assume that an insured credit union is a financial institution in 2020 under § 1003.2(g) and originated, in 2018 and 2019 respectively, 100 and 200 closed-end mortgage loans that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) or (c)(13). The closed-end mortgage loans that the insured credit union originated or purchased, or for which it received applications, during 2020 are not excluded transactions under § 1003.3(c)(11). However, due to the partial exemption in § 1003.3(d)(2), the insured credit union is not required to collect, record, or report optional data as defined in § 1003.3(d)(1)(iii) for the closed-end mortgage loans that it originated or purchased, or for which it received applications, for which final action is taken during 2020. See comments 4(a)-2 through -4 for guidance about the activities that constitute an origination.

# Paragraph 3(d)(3)
1.
General.
Section 1003.3(d)(3) provides that, except as provided in § 1003.3(d)(6), an insured depository institution or insured credit union that, in each of the two preceding calendar years, originated fewer than 500 open-end lines of credit that are not excluded from this part pursuant to § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) is not required to collect, record, or report optional data as defined in § 1003.3(d)(1)(iii) for applications for open-end lines of credit that it receives, open-end lines of credit that it originates, and open-end lines of credit that it purchases. See § 1003.3(c)(12) and comments 3(c)(12)-1 and -2, which provide an exclusion for certain open-end lines of credit from this part and permit voluntary reporting of such transactions under certain circumstances. See also comments 4(a)-2 through -4 for guidance about the activities that constitute an origination.

# Paragraph 3(d)(4)
1.
General.
Section 1003.3(d)(4) provides that an insured depository institution or insured credit union may collect, record, and report optional data as defined in § 1003.3(d)(1)(iii) for a partially exempt transaction as though the institution were required to do so, provided that, if an institution voluntarily reports any data pursuant to any of the seven paragraphs identified in § 1003.3(d)(4)(i) and
(ii) (§ 1003.4(a)(9)(i) and (a)(15), (16), (17), (27), (33), and (35)), it also must report all other data for the covered loan or application that would be required by that applicable paragraph if the transaction were not partially exempt. For example, an insured depository institution or insured credit union may voluntarily report the existence of a balloon payment for a partially exempt transaction pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(27), but, if it does so, it must also report all other data for the transaction that would be required by § 1003.4(a)(27) if the transaction were not partially exempt (
i.e.,
whether the transaction has interest-only payments, negative amortization, or other non-amortizing features).
2.
Partially exempt transactions within the same loan/application register.
A financial institution may collect, record, and report optional data for some partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d) in the manner specified in § 1003.3(d)(4), even if it does not collect, record, and report optional data for other partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d).
3.
Exempt or not applicable.
i. If a financial institution would otherwise report that a transaction is partially exempt pursuant to § 1003.3(d) and a particular requirement to report optional data is not applicable to the transaction, the insured depository institution or insured credit union complies with the particular requirement by reporting either that the transaction is exempt from the requirement or that the requirement is not applicable. For example, assume that an insured depository institution or insured credit union originates a partially exempt reverse mortgage. The requirement to report lender credits is not applicable to reverse mortgages, as comment 4(a)(20)-1 explains. Accordingly, the institution could report either exempt or not applicable for lender credits for the reverse mortgage transaction.
ii. An institution is considered as reporting data in a data field for purposes of § 1003.3(d)(4)(i) and (ii) when it reports not applicable for that data field for a partially exempt transaction. For example, assume an insured depository institution or insured credit union originates a covered loan that is eligible for a partial exemption and is made primarily for business or commercial purposes. The requirement to report total loan costs or total points and fees is not applicable to loans made primarily for business or commercial purposes, as comments 4(a)(17)(i)-1 and (ii)-1 explain. The institution can report not applicable for both total loan costs and total points and fees, or it can report exempt for both total loan costs and total points and fees for the loan. Pursuant to § 1003.3(d)(4)(ii), the institution is not permitted to report not applicable for total loan costs and report exempt for total points and fees for the business or commercial purpose loan.

# Paragraph 3(d)(4)(i)
1.
State.
Section 1003.3(d)(4)(i) provides that if an institution eligible for a partial exemption under § 1003.3(d)(2) or (3) reports the street address, city name, or Zip Code for a partially exempt transaction pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(9)(i), it reports all data that would be required by § 1003.4(a)(9)(i) if the transaction were not partially exempt, including the State. An insured depository institution or insured credit union that reports the State pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(9)(ii) or comment 4(a)(9)(ii)-1 for a partially exempt transaction without reporting any other data required by § 1003.4(a)(9)(i) is not required to report the street address, city name, or Zip Code pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(9)(i).

# Paragraph 3(d)(5)
1.
NULI—uniqueness.
For a partially exempt transaction under § 1003.3(d), a financial institution may report a ULI or a NULI. Section 1003.3(d)(5)(ii) requires an insured depository institution or insured credit union that assigns a NULI to a covered loan or application to ensure that the character sequence it assigns is unique within the institution's annual loan/application register in which it appears. A financial institution should assign only one NULI to any particular covered loan or application within each annual loan/application register, and each NULI should correspond to a single application and ensuing loan within the annual loan/application register in which the NULI appears in the case that the application is approved and a loan is originated. A financial institution may use a NULI more than once within an annual loan/application register only if the NULI refers to the same loan or application or a loan that ensues from an application referred to elsewhere in the annual loan/application register. Refinancings or applications for refinancing that are included in same annual loan/application register as the loan that is being refinanced should be assigned a different NULI than the loan that is being refinanced. An insured depository institution or insured credit union with multiple branches must ensure that its branches do not use the same NULI to refer to multiple covered loans or applications within the institution's same annual loan/application register.
2.
NULI—privacy.
Section 1003.3(d)(5)(iii) prohibits an insured depository institution or insured credit union from including information in the NULI that could be used to directly identify the applicant or borrower. Information that could be used to directly identify the applicant or borrower includes, but is not limited to, the applicant's or borrower's name, date of birth, Social Security number, official government-issued driver's
license or identification number, alien registration number, government passport number, or employer or taxpayer identification number.

# Paragraph 3(d)(6)
1.
Preceding calendar year.
Section 1003.3(d)(6) refers to the preceding December 31, which means the December 31 preceding the current calendar year. For example, in 2020, the preceding December 31 is December 31, 2019. Assume that, as of December 31, 2019, an insured depository institution received ratings of “needs to improve record of meeting community credit needs” during its two most recent examinations under section 807(b)(2) of the Community Reinvestment Act (12 U.S.C. 2906(b)(2)) in 2018 and 2014. Accordingly, in 2020, the insured depository institution's transactions are not partially exempt pursuant to § 1003.3(d).

# Section 1003.4—Compilation of Reportable Data

# 4(a) Data Format and Itemization
1.
General.
Except as otherwise provided in § 1003.3, § 1003.4(a) describes a financial institution's obligation to collect data on applications it received, on covered loans that it originated, and on covered loans that it purchased during the calendar year covered by the loan/application register.
i. A financial institution reports these data even if the covered loans were subsequently sold by the institution.
ii. A financial institution reports data for applications that did not result in an origination but on which actions were taken—for example, an application that the institution denied, that it approved but that was not accepted, that it closed for incompleteness, or that the applicant withdrew during the calendar year covered by the loan/application register. A financial institution is required to report data regarding requests under a preapproval program (as defined in § 1003.2(b)(2)) only if the preapproval request is denied, results in the origination of a home purchase loan, or was approved but not accepted.
iii. If a financial institution acquires covered loans in bulk from another institution (for example, from the receiver for a failed institution), but no merger or acquisition of an institution, or acquisition of a branch office, is involved, the acquiring financial institution reports the covered loans as purchased loans.
iv. A financial institution reports the data for an application on the loan/application register for the calendar year during which the application was acted upon even if the institution received the application in a previous calendar year.
2.
Originations and applications involving more than one institution.
Section 1003.4(a) requires a financial institution to collect certain information regarding applications for covered loans that it receives and regarding covered loans that it originates. The following provides guidance on how to report originations and applications involving more than one institution. The discussion below assumes that all of the parties are financial institutions as defined by § 1003.2(g). The same principles apply if any of the parties is not a financial institution. Comment 4(a)-3 provides examples of transactions involving more than one institution, and comment 4(a)-4 discusses how to report actions taken by agents.
i. Only one financial institution reports each originated covered loan as an origination. If more than one institution was involved in the origination of a covered loan, the financial institution that made the credit decision approving the application before closing or account opening reports the loan as an origination. It is not relevant whether the loan closed or, in the case of an application, would have closed in the institution's name. If more than one institution approved an application prior to closing or account opening and one of those institutions purchased the loan after closing, the institution that purchased the loan after closing reports the loan as an origination. If a financial institution reports a transaction as an origination, it reports all of the information required for originations, even if the covered loan was not initially payable to the financial institution that is reporting the covered loan as an origination.
ii. In the case of an application for a covered loan that did not result in an origination, a financial institution reports the action it took on that application if it made a credit decision on the application or was reviewing the application when the application was withdrawn or closed for incompleteness. It is not relevant whether the financial institution received the application from the applicant or from another institution, such as a broker, or whether another financial institution also reviewed and reported an action taken on the same application.
3.
Examples—originations and applications involving more than one institution.
The following scenarios illustrate how an institution reports a particular application or covered loan. The illustrations assume that all of the parties are financial institutions as defined by § 1003.2(g). However, the same principles apply if any of the parties is not a financial institution.
i. Financial Institution A received an application for a covered loan from an applicant and forwarded that application to Financial Institution B. Financial Institution B reviewed the application and approved the
loan prior to closing. The loan closed in Financial Institution A's name. Financial Institution B purchased the loan from Financial Institution A after closing. Financial Institution B was not acting as Financial Institution A's agent. Since Financial Institution B made the credit decision prior to closing, Financial Institution B reports the transaction as an origination, not as a purchase. Financial Institution A does not report the transaction.
ii. Financial Institution A received an application for a covered loan from an applicant and forwarded that application to Financial Institution B. Financial Institution B reviewed the application before the loan would have closed, but the application did not result in an origination because Financial Institution B denied the application. Financial Institution B was not acting as Financial Institution A's agent. Since Financial Institution B made the credit decision, Financial Institution B reports the application as a denial. Financial Institution A does not report the application. If, under the same facts, the application was withdrawn before Financial Institution B made a credit decision, Financial Institution B would report the application as withdrawn and Financial Institution A would not report the application.
iii. Financial Institution A received an application for a covered loan from an applicant and approved the application before closing the loan in its name. Financial Institution A was not acting as Financial Institution B's agent. Financial Institution B purchased the covered loan from Financial Institution A. Financial Institution B did not review the application before closing. Financial Institution A reports the loan as an origination. Financial Institution B reports the loan as a purchase.
iv. Financial Institution A received an application for a covered loan from an applicant. If approved, the loan would have closed in Financial Institution B's name. Financial Institution A denied the application without sending it to Financial Institution B for approval. Financial Institution A was not acting as Financial Institution B's agent. Since Financial Institution A made the credit decision before the loan would have closed, Financial Institution A reports the application. Financial Institution B does not report the application.
v. Financial Institution A reviewed an application and made the credit decision to approve a covered loan using the underwriting criteria provided by a third party (
e.g.,
another financial institution, Fannie Mae, or Freddie Mac). The third party did not review the application and did not make a credit decision prior to closing. Financial Institution A was not acting as the third party's agent. Financial Institution A reports the application or origination. If the third party purchased the loan and is subject to Regulation C, the third party reports the loan as a purchase whether or not the third party reviewed the loan after closing. Assume the same facts, except that Financial Institution A approved the application, and the applicant chose not to accept the loan from Financial Institution A. Financial Institution A reports the application as approved but not accepted and the third party, assuming the third party is subject to Regulation C, does not report the application.
vi. Financial Institution A reviewed and made the credit decision on an application based on the criteria of a third-party insurer or guarantor (for example, a government or private insurer or guarantor). Financial Institution A reports the action taken on the application.
vii. Financial Institution A received an application for a covered loan and forwarded it to Financial Institutions B and C. Financial Institution A made a credit decision, acting as Financial Institution D's agent, and approved the application. The applicant did not accept the loan from Financial Institution D. Financial Institution D reports the application as approved but not accepted. Financial Institution A does not report the application. Financial Institution B made a credit decision, approving the application, the applicant accepted the offer of credit from Financial Institution B, and credit was extended. Financial Institution B reports the origination. Financial Institution C made a credit decision and denied the application. Financial Institution C reports the application as denied.
4.
Agents.
If a financial institution made the credit decision on a covered loan or application through the actions of an agent, the institution reports the application or origination. State law determines whether one party is the agent of another. For example, acting as Financial Institution A's agent, Financial Institution B approved an application prior to closing and a covered loan was originated. Financial Institution A reports the loan as an origination.
5.
Purchased loans.
i. A financial institution is required to collect data regarding covered loans it purchases. For purposes of § 1003.4(a), a purchase includes a repurchase of a covered loan, regardless of whether the institution chose to repurchase the covered loan or was required to repurchase the covered loan because of a contractual obligation and regardless of whether the repurchase occurs within the same calendar year that the covered loan was originated or in a different calendar year. For example, assume that Financial Institution A originates or purchases a covered loan and then sells it to Financial Institution B, who later requires Financial Institution A to repurchase the covered loan pursuant to the relevant contractual obligations. Financial Institution B reports the
purchase from Financial Institution A, assuming it is a financial institution as defined under § 1003.2(g). Financial Institution A reports the repurchase from Financial Institution B as a purchase.
ii. In contrast, for purposes of § 1003.4(a), a purchase does not include a temporary transfer of a covered loan to an interim funder or warehouse creditor as part of an interim funding agreement under which the originating financial institution is obligated to repurchase the covered loan for sale to a subsequent investor. Such agreements, often referred to as “repurchase agreements,” are sometimes employed as functional equivalents of warehouse lines of credit. Under these agreements, the interim funder or warehouse creditor acquires legal title to the covered loan, subject to an obligation of the originating institution to repurchase at a future date, rather than taking a security interest in the covered loan as under the terms of a more conventional warehouse line of credit. To illustrate, assume Financial Institution A has an interim funding agreement with Financial Institution B to enable Financial Institution B to originate loans. Assume further that Financial Institution B originates a covered loan and that, pursuant to this agreement, Financial Institution A takes a temporary transfer of the covered loan until Financial Institution B arranges for the sale of the covered loan to a subsequent investor and that Financial Institution B repurchases the covered loan to enable it to complete the sale to the subsequent investor (alternatively, Financial Institution A may transfer the covered loan directly to the subsequent investor at Financial Institution B's direction, pursuant to the interim funding agreement). The subsequent investor could be, for example, a financial institution or other entity that intends to hold the loan in portfolio, a GSE or other securitizer, or a financial institution or other entity that intends to package and sell multiple loans to a GSE or other securitizer. In this example, the temporary transfer of the covered loan from Financial Institution B to Financial Institution A is not a purchase, and any subsequent transfer back to Financial Institution B for delivery to the subsequent investor is not a purchase, for purposes of § 1003.4(a). Financial Institution B reports the origination of the covered loan as well as its sale to the subsequent investor. If the subsequent investor is a financial institution under § 1003.2(g), it reports a purchase of the covered loan pursuant to § 1003.4(a), regardless of whether it acquired the covered loan from Financial Institution B or directly from Financial Institution A.

# Section 1003.4—Compilation of Reportable Data

# Paragraph 4(a)(1)(i)
1.
ULI—uniqueness.
Section 1003.4(a)(1)(i)(B)(
2
) requires a financial institution that assigns a universal loan identifier (ULI) to each covered loan or application (except as provided in § 1003.4(a)(1)(i)(D) and (E)) to ensure that the character sequence it assigns is unique within the institution and used only for the covered loan or application. A financial institution should assign only one ULI to any particular covered loan or application, and each ULI should correspond to a single application and ensuing loan in the case that the application is approved and a loan is originated. A financial institution may use a ULI that was reported previously to refer only to the same loan or application for which the ULI was used previously or a loan that ensues from an application for which the ULI was used previously. A financial institution may not report an application for a covered loan in 2030 using the same ULI that was reported for a covered loan that was originated in 2020. Similarly, refinancings or applications for refinancing should be assigned a different ULI than the loan that is being refinanced. A financial institution with multiple branches must ensure that its branches do not use the same ULI to refer to multiple covered loans or applications.
2.
ULI—privacy.
Section 1003.4(a)(1)(i)(B)(
3
) prohibits a financial institution from including information that could be used to directly identify the applicant or borrower in the identifier that it assigns for the application or covered loan of the applicant or borrower. Information that could be used to directly identify the applicant or borrower includes, but is not limited to, the applicant's or borrower's name, date of birth, Social Security number, official government-issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration number, government passport number, or employer or taxpayer identification number.
3.
ULI—purchased covered loan.
If a financial institution has previously assigned a covered loan with a ULI or reported a covered loan with a ULI under this part, a financial institution that purchases that covered loan must report the same ULI that was previously assigned or reported unless the purchase of the covered loan is a partially exempt transaction under § 1003.3(d). For example, if a financial institution that submits an annual loan/application register pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i) originates a covered loan that is purchased by a financial institution that also submits an annual loan/application register pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i), the financial institution that purchases the covered loan must report the purchase of the covered loan using the same ULI that was reported
by the originating financial institution if the purchase is not a partially exempt transaction. If a financial institution that originates a covered loan has previously assigned the covered loan with a ULI under this part but has not yet reported the covered loan, a financial institution that purchases that covered loan must report the same ULI that was previously assigned if the purchase is not a partially exempt transaction. For example, if a financial institution that submits an annual loan/application register pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i) (Institution A) originates a covered loan that is purchased by a financial institution that submits a quarterly loan/application register pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) (Institution B) and Institution A assigned a ULI to the loan, then unless the purchase is a partially exempt transaction Institution B must report the ULI that was assigned by Institution A on Institution B's quarterly loan/application register pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), even though Institution A has not yet submitted its annual loan/application register pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i). A financial institution that purchases a covered loan and is ineligible for a partial exemption with respect to the purchased covered loan must assign it a ULI pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(1)(i) and report it pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i) or (ii), whichever is applicable, if the covered loan was not assigned a ULI by the financial institution that originated the loan because, for example, the loan was originated prior to January 1, 2018, the loan was originated by an institution not required to report under this part, or the loan was assigned a non-universal loan identifier (NULI) under § 1003.3(d)(5) rather than a ULI by the loan originator.
4.
ULI—reinstated or reconsidered application.
A financial institution may, at its option, report a ULI previously reported under this part if, during the same calendar year, an applicant asks the institution to reinstate a counteroffer that the applicant previously did not accept or asks the financial institution to reconsider an application that was previously denied, withdrawn, or closed for incompleteness. For example, if a financial institution reports a denied application in its second-quarter 2020 data submission, pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), but then reconsiders the application, resulting in an origination in the third quarter of 2020, the financial institution may report the origination in its third-quarter 2020 data submission using the same ULI that was reported for the denied application in its second-quarter 2020 data submission, so long as the financial institution treats the origination as the same transaction for reporting. However, a financial institution may not use a ULI previously reported if it reinstates or reconsiders an application that was reported in a prior calendar year. For example, if a financial institution reports a denied application that is not partially exempt in its fourth-quarter 2020 data submission, pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), but then reconsiders the application, resulting in an origination that is not partially exempt in the first quarter of 2021, the financial institution reports a denied application under the original ULI in its fourth-quarter 2020 data submission and an origination with a different ULI in its first-quarter 2021 data submission, pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii).
5.
ULI—check digit.
Section 1003.4(a)(1)(i)(C) requires that the two right-most characters in the ULI represent the check digit. Appendix C prescribes the requirements for generating a check digit and validating a ULI.
6.
NULI.
For a partially exempt transaction under § 1003.3(d), a financial institution may report a ULI or a NULI. See § 1003.3(d)(5) and comments 3(d)(5)-1 and -2 for guidance on the NULI.

# Paragraph 4(a)(1)(ii)
1.
Application date—consistency.
Section 1003.4(a)(1)(ii) requires that, in reporting the date of application, a financial institution report the date it received the application, as defined under § 1003.2(b), or the date shown on the application form. Although a financial institution need not choose the same approach for its entire HMDA submission, it should be generally consistent (such as by routinely using one approach within a particular division of the institution or for a category of loans). If the financial institution chooses to report the date shown on the application form and the institution retains multiple versions of the application form, the institution reports the date shown on the first application form satisfying the application definition provided under § 1003.2(b).
2.
Application date—indirect application.
For an application that was not submitted directly to the financial institution, the institution may report the date the application was received by the party that initially received the application, the date the application was received by the institution, or the date shown on the application form. Although an institution need not choose the same approach for its entire HMDA submission, it should be generally consistent (such as by routinely using one approach within a particular division of the institution or for a category of loans).
3.
Application date—reinstated application.
If, within the same calendar year, an applicant asks a financial institution to reinstate a counteroffer that the applicant previously did not accept (or asks the institution to reconsider an application that was denied, withdrawn, or closed for incompleteness), the institution may treat that request as the continuation of the earlier transaction using the same ULI or NULI or as a new transaction with a new ULI or NULI. If the institution treats the request for reinstatement
or reconsideration as a new transaction, it reports the date of the request as the application date. If the institution does not treat the request for reinstatement or reconsideration as a new transaction, it reports the original application date.

# Paragraph 4(a)(2)
1.
Loan type—general.
If a covered loan is not, or in the case of an application would not have been, insured by the Federal Housing Administration, guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs, or guaranteed by the Rural Housing Service or the Farm Service Agency, an institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(2) by reporting the covered loan as not insured or guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, Rural Housing Service, or Farm Service Agency.

# Paragraph 4(a)(3)
1.
Purpose—statement of applicant.
A financial institution may rely on the oral or written statement of an applicant regarding the proposed use of covered loan proceeds. For example, a lender could use a check-box or a purpose line on a loan application to determine whether the applicant intends to use covered loan proceeds for home improvement purposes. If an applicant provides no statement as to the proposed use of covered loan proceeds and the covered loan is not a home purchase loan, cash-out refinancing, or refinancing, a financial institution reports the covered loan as for a purpose other than home purchase, home improvement, refinancing, or cash-out refinancing for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(3).
2.
Purpose—refinancing and cash-out refinancing.
Section 1003.4(a)(3) requires a financial institution to report whether a covered loan is, or an application is for, a refinancing or a cash-out refinancing. A financial institution reports a covered loan or an application as a cash-out refinancing if it is a refinancing as defined by § 1003.2(p) and the institution considered it to be a cash-out refinancing in processing the application or setting the terms (such as the interest rate or origination charges) under its guidelines or an investor's guidelines. For example:
i. Assume a financial institution considers an application for a loan product to be a cash-out refinancing under an investor's guidelines because of the amount of cash received by the borrower at closing or account opening. Assume also that under the investor's guidelines, the applicant qualifies for the loan product and the financial institution approves the application, originates the covered loan, and sets the terms of the covered loan consistent with the loan product. In this example, the financial institution would report the covered loan as a cash-out refinancing for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(3).
ii. Assume a financial institution does not consider an application for a covered loan to be a cash-out refinancing under its own guidelines because the amount of cash received by the borrower does not exceed a certain threshold. Assume also that the institution approves the application, originates the covered loan, and sets the terms of the covered loan consistent with its own guidelines applicable to refinancings other than cash-out refinancings. In this example, the financial institution would report the covered loan as a refinancing for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(3).
iii. Assume a financial institution does not distinguish between a cash-out refinancing and a refinancing under its own guidelines, and sets the terms of all refinancings without regard to the amount of cash received by the borrower at closing or account opening, and does not offer loan products under investor guidelines. In this example, the financial institution reports all covered loans and applications for covered loans that are defined by § 1003.2(p) as refinancings for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(3).
3.
Purpose—multiple-purpose loan.
Section 1003.4(a)(3) requires a financial institution to report the purpose of a covered loan or application. If a covered loan is a home purchase loan as well as a home improvement loan, a refinancing, or a cash-out refinancing, an institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(3) by reporting the loan as a home purchase loan. If a covered loan is a home improvement loan as well as a refinancing or cash-out refinancing, but the covered loan is not a home purchase loan, an institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(3) by reporting the covered loan as a refinancing or a cash-out refinancing, as appropriate. If a covered loan is a refinancing or cash-out refinancing as well as for another purpose, such as for the purpose of paying educational expenses, but the covered loan is not a home purchase loan, an institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(3) by reporting the covered loan as a refinancing or a cash-out refinancing, as appropriate.
See
comment 4(a)(3)-2. If a covered loan is a home improvement loan as well as for another purpose, but the covered loan is not a home purchase loan, a refinancing, or cash-out refinancing, an institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(3) by reporting the covered loan as a home improvement loan.
See
comment 2(i)-1.
4.
Purpose—other.
If a covered loan is not, or an application is not for, a home purchase loan, a home improvement loan, a refinancing, or a cash-out refinancing, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(3) by reporting the covered loan or application as for a purpose other than home purchase, home improvement, refinancing, or cash-out refinancing. For example, if a covered loan is for the purpose of paying educational expenses, the financial institution complies
with § 1003.4(a)(3) by reporting the covered loan as for a purpose other than home purchase, home improvement, refinancing, or cash-out refinancing. Section 1003.4(a)(3) also requires an institution to report a covered loan or application as for a purpose other than home purchase, home improvement, refinancing, or cash-out refinancing if it is a refinancing but, under the terms of the agreement, the financial institution was unconditionally obligated to refinance the obligation subject to conditions within the borrower's control.
5.
Purpose—business or commercial purpose loans.
If a covered loan primarily is for a business or commercial purpose as described in § 1003.3(c)(10) and comment 3(c)(10)-2 and is a home purchase loan, home improvement loan, or a refinancing, § 1003.4(a)(3) requires the financial institution to report the applicable loan purpose. If a loan primarily is for a business or commercial purpose but is not a home purchase loan, home improvement loan, or a refinancing, the loan is an excluded transaction under § 1003.3(c)(10).
6.
Purpose—purchased loans.
For purchased covered loans where origination took place prior to January 1, 2018, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(3) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable.

# Paragraph 4(a)(4)
1.
Request under a preapproval program.
Section 1003.4(a)(4) requires a financial institution to report whether an application or covered loan involved a request for a preapproval of a home purchase loan under a preapproval program as defined by § 1003.2(b)(2). If an application or covered loan did not involve a request for a preapproval of a home purchase loan under a preapproval program as defined by § 1003.2(b)(2), a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(4) by reporting that the application or covered loan did not involve such a request, regardless of whether the institution has such a program and the applicant did not apply through that program or the institution does not have a preapproval program as defined by § 1003.2(b)(2).
2.
Scope of requirement.
A financial institution reports that the application or covered loan did not involve a preapproval request for a purchased covered loan; an application or covered loan for any purpose other than a home purchase loan; an application for a home purchase loan or a covered loan that is a home purchase loan secured by a multifamily dwelling; an application or covered loan that is an open-end line of credit or a reverse mortgage; or an application that is denied, withdrawn by the applicant, or closed for incompleteness.

# Paragraph 4(a)(5)
1.
Modular homes and prefabricated components.
Covered loans or applications related to modular homes should be reported with a construction method of site-built, regardless of whether they are on-frame or off-frame modular homes. Modular homes comply with local or other recognized buildings codes rather than standards established by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. 5401
et seq.
Modular homes are not required to have HUD Certification Labels under 24 CFR 3280.11 or data plates under 24 CFR 3280.5. Modular homes may have a certification from a State licensing agency that documents compliance with State or other applicable building codes. On-frame modular homes are constructed on permanent metal chassis similar to those used in manufactured homes. The chassis are not removed on site and are secured to the foundation. Off-frame modular homes typically have floor construction similar to the construction of other site-built homes, and the construction typically includes wooden floor joists and does not include permanent metal chassis. Dwellings built using prefabricated components assembled at the dwelling's permanent site should also be reported with a construction method of site-built.
2.
Multifamily dwelling.
For a covered loan or an application for a covered loan related to a multifamily dwelling, the financial institution should report the construction method as site-built unless the multifamily dwelling is a manufactured home community, in which case the financial institution should report the construction method as manufactured home.
3.
Multiple properties.
See comment 4(a)(9)-2 regarding transactions involving multiple properties with more than one property taken as security.

# Paragraph 4(a)(6)
1.
Multiple properties.
See comment 4(a)(9)-2 regarding transactions involving multiple properties with more than one property taken as security.
2.
Principal residence.
Section 1003.4(a)(6) requires a financial institution to identify whether the property to which the covered loan or application relates is or will be used as a residence that the applicant or borrower physically occupies and uses, or will occupy and use, as his or her principal residence. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(6), an applicant or borrower can have only one principal residence at a time. Thus, a vacation or other second home would not be a principal residence. However, if an applicant or borrower buys or builds a new dwelling that will become the applicant's or borrower's principal
residence within a year or upon the completion of construction, the new dwelling is considered the principal residence for purposes of applying this definition to a particular transaction.
3.
Second residences.
Section 1003.4(a)(6) requires a financial institution to identify whether the property to which the loan or application relates is or will be used as a second residence. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(6), a property is a second residence of an applicant or borrower if the property is or will be occupied by the applicant or borrower for a portion of the year and is not the applicant's or borrower's principal residence. For example, if a person purchases a property, occupies the property for a portion of the year, and rents the property for the remainder of the year, the property is a second residence for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(6). Similarly, if a couple occupies a property near their place of employment on weekdays, but the couple returns to their principal residence on weekends, the property near the couple's place of employment is a second residence for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(6).
4.
Investment properties.
Section 1003.4(a)(6) requires a financial institution to identify whether the property to which the covered loan or application relates is or will be used as an investment property. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(6), a property is an investment property if the borrower does not, or the applicant will not, occupy the property. For example, if a person purchases a property, does not occupy the property, and generates income by renting the property, the property is an investment property for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(6). Similarly, if a person purchases a property, does not occupy the property, and does not generate income by renting the property, but intends to generate income by selling the property, the property is an investment property for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(6). Section 1003.4(a)(6) requires a financial institution to identify a property as an investment property if the borrower or applicant does not or will not occupy the property, even if the borrower or applicant does not consider the property as owned for investment purposes. For example, if a corporation purchases a property that is a dwelling under § 1003.2(f), that it does not occupy, but that is for the long-term residential use of its employees, the property is an investment property for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(6), even if the corporation considers the property as owned for business purposes rather than investment purposes, does not generate income by renting the property, and does not intend to generate income by selling the property at some point in time. If the property is for transitory use by employees, the property would not be considered a dwelling under § 1003.2(f).
See
comment 2(f)-3.
5.
Purchased covered loans.
For purchased covered loans, a financial institution may report principal residence unless the loan documents or application indicate that the property will not be occupied as a principal residence.

# Paragraph 4(a)(7)
1.
Covered loan amount—counteroffer.
If an applicant accepts a counteroffer for an amount different from the amount for which the applicant applied, the financial institution reports the covered loan amount granted. If an applicant does not accept a counteroffer or fails to respond, the institution reports the amount initially requested.
2.
Covered loan amount—application approved but not accepted or preapproval request approved but not accepted.
A financial institution reports the covered loan amount that was approved.
3.
Covered loan amount—preapproval request denied, application denied, closed for incompleteness or withdrawn.
For a preapproval request that was denied, and for an application that was denied, closed for incompleteness, or withdrawn, a financial institution reports the amount for which the applicant applied.
4.
Covered loan amount—multiple-purpose loan.
A financial institution reports the entire amount of the covered loan, even if only a part of the proceeds is intended for home purchase, home improvement, or refinancing.
5.
Covered loan amount—closed-end mortgage loan.
For a closed-end mortgage loan, other than a purchased loan, an assumption, or a reverse mortgage, a financial institution reports the amount to be repaid as disclosed on the legal obligation. For a purchased closed-end mortgage loan or an assumption of a closed-end mortgage loan, a financial institution reports the unpaid principal balance at the time of purchase or assumption.
6.
Covered loan amount—open-end line of credit.
For an open-end line of credit, a financial institution reports the entire amount of credit available to the borrower under the terms of the open-end plan, including a purchased open-end line of credit and an assumption of an open-end line of credit, but not for a reverse mortgage open-end line of credit.
7.
Covered loan amount—refinancing.
For a refinancing, a financial institution reports the amount of credit extended under the terms of the new debt obligation.
8.
Covered loan amount—home improvement loan.
A financial institution reports the entire amount of a home improvement loan, even if only a part of the proceeds is intended for home improvement.
9.
Covered loan amount—non-federally insured reverse mortgage.
A financial institution reports the initial principal limit of a non-federally insured reverse mortgage as set forth in § 1003.4(a)(7)(iii).

# Paragraph 4(a)(8)(i)
1.
Action taken—covered loan originated.
A financial institution reports that the covered loan was originated if the financial institution made a credit decision approving the application before closing or account opening and that credit decision results in an extension of credit. The same is true for an application that began as a request for a preapproval that subsequently results in a covered loan being originated.
See
comments 4(a)-2 through -4 for guidance on transactions in which more than one institution is involved.
2.
Action taken—covered loan purchased.
A financial institution reports that the covered loan was purchased if the covered loan was purchased by the financial institution after closing or account opening and the financial institution did not make a credit decision on the application prior to closing or account opening, or if the financial institution did make a credit decision on the application prior to closing or account opening, but is repurchasing the loan from another entity that the loan was sold to.
See
comment 4(a)-5.
See
comments 4(a)-2 through -4 for guidance on transactions in which more than one financial institution is involved.
3.
Action taken—application approved but not accepted.
A financial institution reports application approved but not accepted if the financial institution made a credit decision approving the application before closing or account opening, subject solely to outstanding conditions that are customary commitment or closing conditions, but the applicant or the party that initially received the application fails to respond to the financial institution's approval within the specified time, or the closed-end mortgage loan was not otherwise consummated or the account was not otherwise opened.
See
comment 4(a)(8)(i)-13.
4.
Action taken—application denied.
A financial institution reports that the application was denied if it made a credit decision denying the application before an applicant withdraws the application or the file is closed for incompleteness.
See
comments 4(a)-2 through -4 for guidance on transactions in which more than one institution is involved.
5.
Action taken—application withdrawn.
A financial institution reports that the application was withdrawn when the application is expressly withdrawn by the applicant before the financial institution makes a credit decision denying the application, before the financial institution makes a credit decision approving the application, or before the file is closed for incompleteness. A financial institution also reports application withdrawn if the financial institution provides a conditional approval specifying underwriting or creditworthiness conditions, pursuant to comment 4(a)(8)(i)-13, and the application is expressly withdrawn by the applicant before the applicant satisfies all specified underwriting or creditworthiness conditions. A preapproval request that is withdrawn is not reportable under HMDA.
See
§ 1003.4(a).
6.
Action taken—file closed for incompleteness.
A financial institution reports that the file was closed for incompleteness if the financial institution sent a written notice of incompleteness under Regulation B, 12 CFR 1002.9(c)(2), and the applicant did not respond to the request for additional information within the period of time specified in the notice before the applicant satisfies all underwriting or creditworthiness conditions.
See
comment 4(a)(8)(i)-13. If a financial institution then provides a notification of adverse action on the basis of incompleteness under Regulation B, 12 CFR 1002.9(c)(1)(i), the financial institution may report the action taken as either file closed for incompleteness or application denied. A preapproval request that is closed for incompleteness is not reportable under HMDA.
See
§ 1003.4(a) and comment 4(a)-1.ii.
7.
Action taken—preapproval request denied.
A financial institution reports that the preapproval request was denied if the application was a request for a preapproval under a preapproval program as defined in § 1003.2(b)(2) and the institution made a credit decision denying the preapproval request.
8.
Action taken—preapproval request approved but not accepted.
A financial institution reports that the preapproval request was approved but not accepted if the application was a request for a preapproval under a preapproval program as defined in § 1003.2(b)(2) and the institution made a credit decision approving the preapproval request but the application did not result in a covered loan originated by the financial institution.
9.
Action taken—counteroffers.
If a financial institution makes a counteroffer to lend on terms different from the applicant's initial request (for example, for a shorter loan maturity, with a different interest rate, or in a different amount) and the applicant declines to proceed with the counteroffer or fails to respond, the institution reports the action taken as a denial on the original terms requested by the applicant. If the applicant agrees to proceed with consideration of the financial institution's counteroffer, the financial institution reports the action taken as the disposition of the application based on the terms of the counteroffer. For example, assume a financial institution makes a counteroffer, the applicant agrees to proceed with the terms of the counteroffer, and the financial institution then makes a credit decision approving the application conditional on satisfying underwriting or creditworthiness conditions, and the applicant expressly withdraws before satisfying all underwriting or creditworthiness conditions and before
the institution denies the application or closes the file for incompleteness. The financial institution reports the action taken as application withdrawn in accordance with comment 4(a)(8)(i)-13.i. Similarly, assume a financial institution makes a counteroffer, the applicant agrees to proceed with consideration of the counteroffer, and the financial institution provides a conditional approval stating the conditions to be met to originate the counteroffer. The financial institution reports the action taken on the application in accordance with comment 4(a)(8)(i)-13 regarding conditional approvals.
10.
Action taken—rescinded transactions.
If a borrower rescinds a transaction after closing and before a financial institution is required to submit its loan/application register containing the information for the transaction under § 1003.5(a), the institution reports the transaction as an application that was approved but not accepted.
11.
Action taken—purchased covered loans.
An institution reports the covered loans that it purchased during the calendar year. An institution does not report the covered loans that it declined to purchase, unless, as discussed in comments 4(a)-2 through -4, the institution reviewed the application prior to closing, in which case it reports the application or covered loan according to comments 4(a)-2 through -4.
12.
Action taken—repurchased covered loans.
See comment 4(a)-5 regarding reporting requirements when a covered loan is repurchased by the originating financial institution.
13.
Action taken—conditional approvals.
If an institution issues an approval other than a commitment pursuant to a preapproval program as defined under § 1003.2(b)(2), and that approval is subject to the applicant meeting certain conditions, the institution reports the action taken as provided below dependent on whether the conditions are solely customary commitment or closing conditions or if the conditions include any underwriting or creditworthiness conditions.
i.
Action taken examples.
If the approval is conditioned on satisfying underwriting or creditworthiness conditions and they are not met, the institution reports the action taken as a denial. If, however, the conditions involve submitting additional information about underwriting or creditworthiness that the institution needs to make the credit decision, and the institution has sent a written notice of incompleteness under Regulation B, 12 CFR 1002.9(c)(2), and the applicant did not respond within the period of time specified in the notice, the institution reports the action taken as file closed for incompleteness.
See
comment 4(a)(8)(i)-6. If the conditions are solely customary commitment or closing conditions and the conditions are not met, the institution reports the action taken as approved but not accepted. If all the conditions (underwriting, creditworthiness, or customary commitment or closing conditions) are satisfied and the institution agrees to extend credit but the covered loan is not originated, the institution reports the action taken as application approved but not accepted. If the applicant expressly withdraws before satisfying all underwriting or creditworthiness conditions and before the institution denies the application or closes the file for incompleteness, the institution reports the action taken as application withdrawn. If all underwriting and creditworthiness conditions have been met, and the outstanding conditions are solely customary commitment or closing conditions and the applicant expressly withdraws before the covered loan is originated, the institution reports the action taken as application approved but not accepted.
ii.
Customary commitment or closing conditions.
Customary commitment or closing conditions include, for example: A clear-title requirement, an acceptable property survey, acceptable title insurance binder, clear termite inspection, a subordination agreement from another lienholder, and, where the applicant plans to use the proceeds from the sale of one home to purchase another, a settlement statement showing adequate proceeds from the sale.
iii.
Underwriting or creditworthiness conditions.
Underwriting or creditworthiness conditions include, for example: Conditions that constitute a counter-offer, such as a demand for a higher down-payment; satisfactory debt-to-income or loan-to-value ratios, a determination of need for private mortgage insurance, or a satisfactory appraisal requirement; or verification or confirmation, in whatever form the institution requires, that the applicant meets underwriting conditions concerning applicant creditworthiness, including documentation or verification of income or assets.
14.
Action taken—pending applications.
An institution does not report any covered loan application still pending at the end of the calendar year; it reports that application on its loan/application register for the year in which final action is taken.

# Paragraph 4(a)(8)(ii)
1.
Action taken date—general.
A financial institution reports the date of the action taken.
2.
Action taken date—applications denied and files closed for incompleteness.
For applications, including requests for a preapproval, that are denied or for files closed for incompleteness, the financial institution reports either the date the action was taken or the date the notice was sent to the applicant.
3.
Action taken date—application withdrawn.
For applications withdrawn, the financial institution may report the date the express withdrawal was received or the date shown
on the notification form in the case of a written withdrawal.
4.
Action taken date—approved but not accepted.
For a covered loan approved by an institution but not accepted by the applicant, the institution reports any reasonable date, such as the approval date, the deadline for accepting the offer, or the date the file was closed. Although an institution need not choose the same approach for its entire HMDA submission, it should be generally consistent (such as by routinely using one approach within a particular division of the institution or for a category of covered loans).
5.
Action taken date—originations.
For covered loan originations, including a preapproval request that leads to an origination by the financial institution, an institution generally reports the closing or account opening date. For covered loan originations that an institution acquires from a party that initially received the application, the institution reports either the closing or account opening date, or the date the institution acquired the covered loan from the party that initially received the application. If the disbursement of funds takes place on a date later than the closing or account opening date, the institution may use the date of initial disbursement. For a construction/permanent covered loan, the institution reports either the closing or account opening date, or the date the covered loan converts to the permanent financing. Although an institution need not choose the same approach for its entire HMDA submission, it should be generally consistent (such as by routinely using one approach within a particular division of the institution or for a category of covered loans). Notwithstanding this flexibility regarding the use of the closing or account opening date in connection with reporting the date action was taken, the institution must report the origination as occurring in the year in which the origination goes to closing or the account is opened.
6.
Action taken date—loan purchased.
For covered loans purchased, a financial institution reports the date of purchase.

# Paragraph 4(a)(9)
1.
Multiple properties with one property taken as security.
If a covered loan is related to more than one property, but only one property is taken as security (or, in the case of an application, proposed to be taken as security), a financial institution reports the information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) for the property taken as or proposed to be taken as security. A financial institution does not report the information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) for the property or properties related to the loan that are not taken as or proposed to be taken as security. For example, if a covered loan is secured by property A, and the proceeds are used to purchase or rehabilitate (or to refinance home purchase or home improvement loans related to) property B, the institution reports the information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) for property A and does not report the information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) for property B.
2.
Multiple properties with more than one property taken as security.
If more than one property is taken or, in the case of an application, proposed to be taken as security for a single covered loan, a financial institution reports the covered loan or application in a single entry on its loan/application register and provides the information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) for one of the properties taken as security that contains a dwelling. A financial institution does not report information about the other properties taken as security. If an institution is required to report specific information about the property identified in § 1003.4(a)(9), the institution reports the information that relates to the property identified in § 1003.4(a)(9) (or, if the transaction is partially exempt under § 1003.3(d) and no data are reported pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(9), the property that the institution would have identified in § 1003.4(a)(9) if the transaction were not partially exempt). For example, Financial Institution A originated a covered loan that is secured by both property A and property B, each of which contains a dwelling. Financial Institution A reports the loan as one entry on its loan/application register, reporting the information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) for either property A or property B. If Financial Institution A elects to report the information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) about property A, Financial Institution A also reports the information required by § 1003.4(a)(5), (6), (14), (29), and (30) related to property A. For aspects of the entries that do not refer to the property identified in § 1003.4(a)(9) (
i.e.,
§ 1003.4(a)(1) through (4), (7), (8), (10) through (13), (15) through (28), and (31) through (38)), Financial Institution A reports the information applicable to the covered loan or application and not information that relates only to the property identified in § 1003.4(a)(9).
3.
Multifamily dwellings.
A single multifamily dwelling may have more than one postal address. For example, three apartment buildings, each with a different street address, comprise a single multifamily dwelling that secures a covered loan. For the purposes of § 1003.4(a)(9), a financial institution reports the information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) in the same manner described in comment 4(a)(9)-2.
4.
Loans purchased from another institution.
The requirement to report the property location information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) applies not only to applications and originations but also to purchased covered loans.
5.
Manufactured home.
If the site of a manufactured home has not been identified, a financial institution complies by reporting
that the information required by § 1003.4(a)(9) is not applicable.

# Paragraph 4(a)(9)(i)
1.
General.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(9)(i) requires a financial institution to report the property address of the location of the property securing a covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure a covered loan. The address should correspond to the property identified on the legal obligation related to the covered loan. For applications that did not result in an origination, the address should correspond to the location of the property proposed to secure the loan as identified by the applicant. For example, assume a loan is secured by a property located at 123 Main Street, and the applicant's or borrower's mailing address is a post office box. The financial institution should not report the post office box, and should report 123 Main Street.
2.
Property address—format.
A financial institution complies with the requirements in § 1003.4(a)(9)(i) by reporting the following information about the physical location of the property securing the loan.
i.
Street address.
When reporting the street address of the property, a financial institution complies by including, as applicable, the primary address number, the predirectional, the street name, street prefixes and/or suffixes, the postdirectional, the secondary address identifier, and the secondary address, as applicable. For example, 100 N Main ST Apt 1.
ii.
City name.
A financial institution complies by reporting the name of the city in which the property is located.
iii.
State name.
A financial institution complies by reporting the two letter State code for the State in which the property is located, using the U.S. Postal Service official State abbreviations.
iv.
Zip Code.
A financial institution complies by reporting the five or nine digit Zip Code in which the property is located.
3.
Property address—not applicable.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(9)(i) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the property address of the property securing the covered loan is not known. For example, if the property did not have a property address at closing or if the applicant did not provide the property address of the property to the financial institution before the application was denied, withdrawn, or closed for incompleteness, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(9)(i) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable.

# Paragraph 4(a)(9)(ii)
1.
Optional reporting.
Section 1003.4(a)(9)(ii) requires a financial institution to report the State, county, and census tract of the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan if the property is located in an MSA or MD in which the financial institution has a home or branch office or if the institution is subject to § 1003.4(e). Section 1003.4(a)(9)(ii)(C) further limits the requirement to report census tract to covered loans secured by or applications proposed to be secured by properties located in counties with a population of more than 30,000 according to the most recent decennial census conducted by the U.S. Census Bureau. For transactions for which State, county, or census tract reporting is not required under § 1003.4(a)(9)(ii) or (e), financial institutions may report that the requirement is not applicable, or they may voluntarily report the State, county, or census tract information.

# Paragraph 4(a)(9)(ii)(A)
1.
Applications—State not provided.
When reporting an application, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(9)(ii)(A) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the State in which the property is located was not known before the application was denied, withdrawn, or closed for incompleteness.

# Paragraph 4(a)(9)(ii)(B)
1.
General.
A financial institution complies by reporting the five-digit Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) numerical county code.
2.
Applications—county not provided.
When reporting an application, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(9)(ii)(B) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the county in which the property is located was not known before the application was denied, withdrawn, or closed for incompleteness.

# Paragraph 4(a)(9)(ii)(C)
1.
General.
Census tract numbers are defined by the U.S. Census Bureau. A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(9)(ii)(C) if it uses the boundaries and codes in effect on January 1 of the calendar year covered by the loan/application register that it is reporting.
2.
Applications—census tract not provided.
When reporting an application, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(9)(ii)(C) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the census tract in which the property is located was not known before the application was denied, withdrawn, or closed for incompleteness.

# Paragraph 4(a)(10)(i)
1.
Applicant data—general.
Refer to appendix B to this part for instructions on collection of an applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex.
2.
Transition rule for applicant data collected prior to January 1, 2018.
If a financial institution receives an application prior to January 1, 2018, but final action is taken on or after January 1, 2018, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(10)(i) and (b) if it collects the information in accordance with the requirements in effect at the time the information was collected. For example, if a financial institution receives an application on November 15, 2017, collects the applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex in accordance with the instructions in effect on that date, and takes final action on the application on January 5, 2018, the financial institution has complied with the requirements of § 1003.4(a)(10)(i) and (b), even though those instructions changed after the information was collected but before the date of final action. However, if, in this example, the financial institution collected the applicant's ethnicity, race, and sex on or after January 1, 2018, § 1003.4(a)(10)(i) and (b) requires the financial institution to collect the information in accordance with the amended instructions.

# Paragraph 4(a)(10)(ii)
1.
Applicant data—completion by financial institution.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(10)(ii) by reporting the applicant's age, as of the application date under § 1003.4(a)(1)(ii), as the number of whole years derived from the date of birth as shown on the application form. For example, if an applicant provides a date of birth of 01/15/1970 on the application form that the financial institution receives on 01/14/2015, the institution reports 44 as the applicant's age.
2.
Applicant data—co-applicant.
If there are no co-applicants, the financial institution reports that there is no co-applicant. If there is more than one co-applicant, the financial institution reports the age only for the first co-applicant listed on the application form. A co-applicant may provide an absent co-applicant's age on behalf of the absent co-applicant.
3.
Applicant data—purchased loan.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(10)(ii) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable when reporting a purchased loan for which the institution chooses not to report the age.
4.
Applicant data—non-natural person.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(10)(ii) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the applicant or co-applicant is not a natural person (for example, a corporation, partnership, or trust). For example, for a transaction involving a trust, a financial institution reports that the requirement to report the applicant's age is not applicable if the trust is the applicant. On the other hand, if the applicant is a natural person, and is the beneficiary of a trust, a financial institution reports the applicant's age.
5.
Applicant data—guarantor.
For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(10)(ii), if a covered loan or application includes a guarantor, a financial institution does not report the guarantor's age.

# Paragraph 4(a)(10)(iii)
1.
Income data—income relied on.
When a financial institution evaluates income as part of a credit decision, it reports the gross annual income relied on in making the credit decision. For example, if an institution relies on an applicant's salary to compute a debt-to-income ratio but also relies on the applicant's annual bonus to evaluate creditworthiness, the institution reports the salary and the bonus to the extent relied upon. If an institution relies on only a portion of an applicant's income in its determination, it does not report that portion of income not relied on. For example, if an institution, pursuant to lender and investor guidelines, does not rely on an applicant's commission income because it has been earned for less than 12 months, the institution does not include the applicant's commission income in the income reported. Likewise, if an institution relies on the verified gross income of the applicant in making the credit decision, then the institution reports the verified gross income. Similarly, if an institution relies on the income of a cosigner to evaluate creditworthiness, the institution includes the cosigner's income to the extent relied upon. An institution, however, does not include the income of a guarantor who is only secondarily liable.
2.
Income data—co-applicant.
If two persons jointly apply for a covered loan and both list income on the application, but the financial institution relies on the income of only one applicant in evaluating creditworthiness, the institution reports only the income relied on.
3.
Income data—loan to employee.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(10)(iii) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable for a covered loan to, or an application from, its employee to protect the employee's privacy, even though the institution relied on the employee's income in making the credit decision.
4.
Income data—assets.
A financial institution does not include as income amounts considered in making a credit decision based on factors that an institution relies on in addition to income, such as amounts derived from underwriting calculations of the potential annuitization or depletion of an applicant's remaining assets. Actual distributions from retirement accounts or other assets
that are relied on by the financial institution as income should be reported as income. The interpretation of income in this paragraph does not affect § 1003.4(a)(23), which requires, except for purchased covered loans, the collection of the ratio of the applicant's or borrower's total monthly debt to the total monthly income relied on in making the credit decision.
5.
Income data—credit decision not made.
Section 1003.4(a)(10)(iii) requires a financial institution to report the gross annual income relied on in processing the application if a credit decision was not made. For example, assume an institution received an application that included an applicant's self-reported income, but the application was withdrawn before a credit decision that would have considered income was made. The financial institution reports the income information relied on in processing the application at the time that the application was withdrawn or the file was closed for incompleteness.
6.
Income data—credit decision not requiring consideration of income.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(10)(iii) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the application did not or would not have required a credit decision that considered income under the financial institution's policies and procedures. For example, if the financial institution's policies and procedures do not consider income for a streamlined refinance program, the institution reports that the requirement is not applicable, even if the institution received income information from the applicant.
7.
Income data—non-natural person.
A financial institution reports that the requirement is not applicable when the applicant or co-applicant is not a natural person (
e.g.,
a corporation, partnership, or trust). For example, for a transaction involving a trust, a financial institution reports that the requirement to report income data is not applicable if the trust is the applicant. On the other hand, if the applicant is a natural person, and is the beneficiary of a trust, a financial institution is required to report the information described in § 1003.4(a)(10)(iii).
8.
Income data—multifamily properties.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(10)(iii) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable when the covered loan is secured by, or application is proposed to be secured by, a multifamily dwelling.
9.
Income data—purchased loans.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(10)(iii) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable when reporting a purchased covered loan for which the institution chooses not to report the income.
10.
Income data—rounding.
A financial institution complies by reporting the dollar amount of the income in thousands, rounded to the nearest thousand ($500 rounds up to the next $1,000). For example, $35,500 is reported as 36.

# Paragraph 4(a)(11)
1.
Type of purchaser—loan-participation interests sold to more than one entity.
A financial institution that originates a covered loan, and then sells it to more than one entity, reports the “type of purchaser” based on the entity purchasing the greatest interest, if any. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(11), if a financial institution sells some interest or interests in a covered loan but retains a majority interest in that loan, it does not report the sale.
2.
Type of purchaser—swapped covered loans.
Covered loans “swapped” for mortgage-backed securities are to be treated as sales; the purchaser is the entity receiving the covered loans that are swapped.
3.
Type of purchaser—affiliate institution.
For purposes of complying with § 1003.4(a)(11), the term “affiliate” means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, another company, as set forth in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841
et seq.
).
4.
Type of purchaser—private securitizations.
A financial institution that knows or reasonably believes that the covered loan it is selling will be securitized by the entity purchasing the covered loan, other than by one of the government-sponsored enterprises, reports the purchasing entity type as a private securitizer regardless of the type or affiliation of the purchasing entity. Knowledge or reasonable belief could, for example, be based on the purchase agreement or other related documents, the financial institution's previous transactions with the purchaser, or the purchaser's role as a securitizer (such as an investment bank). If a financial institution selling a covered loan does not know or reasonably believe that the purchaser will securitize the loan, and the seller knows that the purchaser frequently holds or disposes of loans by means other than securitization, then the financial institution should report the covered loan as purchased by, as appropriate, a commercial bank, savings bank, savings association, life insurance company, credit union, mortgage company, finance company, affiliate institution, or other type of purchaser.
5.
Type of purchaser—mortgage company.
For purposes of complying with § 1003.4(a)(11), a mortgage company means a nondepository institution that purchases covered loans and typically originates such loans. A mortgage company might be an affiliate or a subsidiary of a bank holding company or thrift holding company, or it might be an independent mortgage company. Regardless, a financial institution reports the purchasing entity type as a mortgage company, unless the mortgage company is an affiliate of the
seller institution, in which case the seller institution should report the loan as purchased by an affiliate institution.
6.
Purchases by subsidiaries.
A financial institution that sells a covered loan to its subsidiary that is a commercial bank, savings bank, or savings association, should report the covered loan as purchased by a commercial bank, savings bank, or savings association. A financial institution that sells a covered loan to its subsidiary that is a life insurance company, should report the covered loan as purchased by a life insurance company. A financial institution that sells a covered loan to its subsidiary that is a credit union, mortgage company, or finance company, should report the covered loan as purchased by a credit union, mortgage company, or finance company. If the subsidiary that purchases the covered loan is not a commercial bank, savings bank, savings association, life insurance company, credit union, mortgage company, or finance company, the seller institution should report the loan as purchased by other type of purchaser. The financial institution should report the covered loan as purchased by an affiliate institution when the subsidiary is an affiliate of the seller institution.
7.
Type of purchaser—bank holding company or thrift holding company.
When a financial institution sells a covered loan to a bank holding company or thrift holding company (rather than to one of its subsidiaries), it should report the loan as purchased by other type of purchaser, unless the bank holding company or thrift holding company is an affiliate of the seller institution, in which case the seller institution should report the loan as purchased by an affiliate institution.
8.
Repurchased covered loans.
See comment 4(a)-5 regarding reporting requirements when a covered loan is repurchased by the originating financial institution.
9.
Type of purchaser—quarterly recording.
For purposes of recording the type of purchaser within 30 calendar days after the end of the calendar quarter pursuant to § 1003.4(f), a financial institution records that the requirement is not applicable if the institution originated or purchased a covered loan and did not sell it during the calendar quarter for which the institution is recording the data. If the financial institution sells the covered loan in a subsequent quarter of the same calendar year, the financial institution records the type of purchaser on its loan/application register for the quarter in which the covered loan was sold. If a financial institution sells the covered loan in a succeeding year, the financial institution should not record the sale.
10.
Type of purchaser—not applicable.
A financial institution reports that the requirement is not applicable for applications that were denied, withdrawn, closed for incompleteness or approved but not accepted by the applicant; and for preapproval requests that were denied or approved but not accepted by the applicant. A financial institution also reports that the requirement is not applicable if the institution originated or purchased a covered loan and did not sell it during that same calendar year.

# Paragraph 4(a)(12)
1.
Average prime offer rate.
Average prime offer rates are annual percentage rates derived from average interest rates and other loan pricing terms offered to borrowers by a set of creditors for mortgage loans that have low-risk pricing characteristics. Other loan pricing terms may include commonly used indices, margins, and initial fixed-rate periods for variable-rate transactions. Relevant pricing characteristics may include a consumer's credit history and transaction characteristics such as the loan-to-value ratio, owner-occupant status, and purpose of the transaction. To obtain average prime offer rates, the Bureau uses creditor data by transaction type.
2.
Bureau tables.
The Bureau publishes tables of current and historic average prime offer rates by transaction type on the FFIEC's website (
http://www.ffiec.gov/hmda
) and the Bureau's website (
https://www.consumerfinance.gov
). The Bureau calculates an annual percentage rate, consistent with Regulation Z (
see
12 CFR 1026.22 and 12 CFR part 1026, appendix J), for each transaction type for which pricing terms are available from the creditor data described in comment 4(a)(12)-1. The Bureau uses loan pricing terms available in the creditor data and other information to estimate annual percentage rates for other types of transactions for which the creditor data are limited or not available. The Bureau publishes on the FFIEC's website and the Bureau's website the methodology it uses to arrive at these estimates. A financial institution may either use the average prime offer rates published by the Bureau or determine average prime offer rates itself by employing the methodology published on the FFIEC's website and the Bureau's website. A financial institution that determines average prime offer rates itself, however, is responsible for correctly determining the rates in accordance with the published methodology.
3.
Rate spread calculation—annual percentage rate.
The requirements of § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) refer to the covered loan's annual percentage rate. For closed-end mortgage loans, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) by relying on the annual percentage rate for the covered loan, as calculated and disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18 or 1026.38. For open-end lines of credit, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) by relying on the annual percentage rate for the covered loan, as calculated and disclosed
pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.6. If multiple annual percentage rates are calculated and disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.6, a financial institution relies on the annual percentage rate in effect at the time of account opening. If an open-end line of credit has a variable-rate feature and a fixed-rate and -term payment option during the draw period, a financial institution relies on the annual percentage rate in effect at the time of account opening under the variable-rate feature, which would be a discounted initial rate if one is offered under the variable-rate feature. See comment 4(a)(12)-8 for guidance regarding the annual percentage rate a financial institution relies on in the case of an application or preapproval request that was approved but not accepted.
4.
Rate spread calculation—comparable transaction.
The rate spread calculation in § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) is defined by reference to a comparable transaction, which is determined according to the covered loan's amortization type (
i.e.,
fixed- or variable-rate) and loan term. For covered loans that are open-end lines of credit, § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) requires a financial institution to identify the most closely comparable closed-end transaction. The tables of average prime offer rates published by the Bureau (see comment 4(a)(12)-2) provide additional detail about how to identify the comparable transaction.
i.
Fixed-rate transactions.
For fixed-rate covered loans, the term for identifying the comparable transaction is the transaction's maturity (
i.e.,
the period until the last payment will be due under the closed-end mortgage loan contract or open-end line of credit agreement). If an open-end credit plan has a fixed rate but no definite plan length, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) by using a 30-year fixed-rate loan as the most closely comparable closed-end transaction. Financial institutions may refer to the table on the FFIEC website entitled “Average Prime Offer Rates-Fixed” when identifying a comparable fixed-rate transaction.
ii.
Variable-rate transactions.
For variable-rate covered loans, the term for identifying the comparable transaction is the initial, fixed-rate period (
i.e.,
the period until the first scheduled rate adjustment). For example, five years is the relevant term for a variable-rate transaction with a five-year, fixed-rate introductory period that is amortized over thirty years. Financial institutions may refer to the table on the FFIEC website entitled “Average Prime Offer Rates-Variable” when identifying a comparable variable-rate transaction. If an open-end line of credit has a variable rate and an optional, fixed-rate feature, a financial institution uses the rate table for variable-rate transactions.
iii.
Term not in whole years.
When a covered loan's term to maturity (or, for a variable-rate transaction, the initial fixed-rate period) is not in whole years, the financial institution uses the number of whole years closest to the actual loan term or, if the actual loan term is exactly halfway between two whole years, by using the shorter loan term. For example, for a loan term of ten years and three months, the relevant term is ten years; for a loan term of ten years and nine months, the relevant term is 11 years; for a loan term of ten years and six months, the relevant term is ten years. If a loan term includes an odd number of days, in addition to an odd number of months, the financial institution rounds to the nearest whole month, or rounds down if the number of odd days is exactly halfway between two months. The financial institution rounds to one year any covered loan with a term shorter than six months, including variable-rate covered loans with no initial, fixed-rate periods. For example, if an open-end covered loan has a rate that varies according to an index plus a margin, with no introductory, fixed-rate period, the transaction term is one year.
iv.
Amortization period longer than loan term.
If the amortization period of a covered loan is longer than the term of the transaction to maturity, § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) requires a financial institution to use the loan term to determine the applicable average prime offer rate. For example, assume a financial institution originates a closed-end, fixed-rate loan that has a term to maturity of five years and a thirty-year amortization period that results in a balloon payment. The financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) by using the five-year loan term.
5.
Rate-set date.
The relevant date to use to determine the average prime offer rate for a comparable transaction is the date on which the interest rate was set by the financial institution for the final time before final action is taken (
i.e.,
the application was approved but not accepted or the covered loan was originated).
i.
Rate-lock agreement.
If an interest rate is set pursuant to a “lock-in” agreement between the financial institution and the borrower, then the date on which the agreement fixes the interest rate is the date the rate was set. Except as provided in comment 4(a)(12)-5.ii, if a rate is reset after a lock-in agreement is executed (for example, because the borrower exercises a float-down option or the agreement expires), then the relevant date is the date the financial institution exercises discretion in setting the rate for the final time before final action is taken. The same rule applies when a rate-lock agreement is extended and the rate is reset at the same rate, regardless of whether market rates have increased, decreased, or remained the same since the initial rate was set. If no
lock-in agreement is executed, then the relevant date is the date on which the institution sets the rate for the final time before final action is taken.
ii.
Change in loan program.
If a financial institution issues a rate-lock commitment under one loan program, the borrower subsequently changes to another program that is subject to different pricing terms, and the financial institution changes the rate promised to the borrower under the rate-lock commitment accordingly, the rate-set date is the date of the program change. However, if the financial institution changes the promised rate to the rate that would have been available to the borrower under the new program on the date of the original rate-lock commitment, then that is the date the rate is set, provided the financial institution consistently follows that practice in all such cases or the original rate-lock agreement so provided. For example, assume that a borrower locks a rate of 2.5 percent on June 1 for a 30-year, variable-rate loan with a five-year, fixed-rate introductory period. On June 15, the borrower decides to switch to a 30-year, fixed-rate loan, and the rate available to the borrower for that product on June 15 is 4.0 percent. On June 1, the 30-year, fixed-rate loan would have been available to the borrower at a rate of 3.5 percent. If the financial institution offers the borrower the 3.5 percent rate (
i.e.,
the rate that would have been available to the borrower for the fixed-rate product on June 1, the date of the original rate-lock) because the original agreement so provided or because the financial institution consistently follows that practice for borrowers who change loan programs, then the financial institution should use June 1 as the rate-set date. In all other cases, the financial institution should use June 15 as the rate-set date.
iii.
Brokered loans.
When a financial institution has reporting responsibility for an application for a covered loan that it received from a broker, as discussed in comment 4(a)-2 (
e.g.,
because the financial institution makes a credit decision prior to closing or account opening), the rate-set date is the last date the financial institution set the rate with the broker, not the date the broker set the borrower's rate.
6.
Compare the annual percentage rate to the average prime offer rate.
Section 1003.4(a)(12)(i) requires a financial institution to compare the covered loan's annual percentage rate to the most recently available average prime offer rate that was in effect for the comparable transaction as of the rate-set date. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(12)(i), the most recently available rate means the average prime offer rate set forth in the applicable table with the most recent effective date as of the date the interest rate was set. However, § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) does not permit a financial institution to use an average prime offer rate before its effective date.
7.
Rate spread—scope of requirement.
If the covered loan is an assumption, reverse mortgage, a purchased loan, or is not subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(12) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable. If the application did not result in an origination for a reason other than the application was approved but not accepted by the applicant, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(12) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the rate spread.
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.
8.
Application or preapproval request approved but not accepted.
In the case of an application or preapproval request that was approved but not accepted, § 1003.4(a)(12) requires a financial institution to report the applicable rate spread. In such cases, the financial institution would provide early disclosures under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18 or 1026.37 (for closed-end mortgage loans), or 1026.40 (for open-end lines of credit), but might never provide any subsequent disclosures. In such cases where no subsequent disclosures are provided, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) by relying on the annual percentage rate for the application or preapproval request, as calculated and disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18 or 1026.37 (for closed-end mortgage loans), or 1026.40 (for open-end lines of credit), as applicable. For transactions subject to Regulation C for which no disclosures under Regulation Z are required, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable.
9.
Corrected disclosures.
In the case of a covered loan or an application that was approved but not accepted, if the annual percentage rate changes because a financial institution provides a corrected version of the disclosures required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(a), pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(a)(2), under 12 CFR 1026.19(f), pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2), or under 12 CFR 1026.6(a), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(12)(i) by comparing the corrected and disclosed annual percentage rate to the most recently available average prime offer rate that was in effect for a comparable transaction as of the rate-set date, provided that the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the reporting period in which final action is taken. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(12), the date the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower is the date the disclosure was mailed or delivered to the borrower in person; the financial institution's method of delivery does
not affect the date provided. For example, where a financial institution provides a corrected version of the disclosures required under 12 CFR 1026.19(f), pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2), the date provided is the date disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(a)(3)(i). The provision of a corrected disclosure does not affect how a financial institution determines the rate-set date.
See
comment 4(a)(12)-5. For example:
i. In the case of a financial institution's annual loan/application register submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), that reflects a corrected annual percentage rate, the financial institution reports the difference between the corrected annual percentage rate and the most recently available average prime offer rate that was in effect for a comparable transaction as of the rate-set date only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which final action is taken.
ii. In the case of a financial institution's quarterly submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), that reflects a corrected annual percentage rate, the financial institution reports the difference between the corrected annual percentage rate and the most recently available average prime offer rate that was in effect for a comparable transaction as of the rate-set date only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the quarter in which final action is taken. The financial institution does not report the difference between the corrected annual percentage rate and the most recently available average prime offer rate that was in effect for a comparable transaction as of the rate-set date if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower after the end of the quarter in which final action is taken, even if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the deadline for timely submission of the financial institution's quarterly data. However, the financial institution reports the difference between the corrected annual percentage rate and the most recently available average prime offer rate that was in effect for a comparable transaction as of the rate-set date on its annual loan/application register, provided that the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which final action is taken.

# Paragraph 4(a)(13)
1.
HOEPA status—not applicable.
If the covered loan is not subject to the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, as implemented in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(13) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable. If an application did not result in an origination, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(13) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable.

# Paragraph 4(a)(14)
1.
Determining lien status for applications and covered loans originated and purchased.
i. Financial institutions are required to report lien status for covered loans they originate and purchase and applications that do not result in originations (preapproval requests that are approved but not accepted, preapproval requests that are denied, applications that are approved but not accepted, denied, withdrawn, or closed for incompleteness). For covered loans purchased by a financial institution, lien status is determined by reference to the best information readily available to the financial institution at the time of purchase. For covered loans that a financial institution originates and applications that do not result in originations, lien status is determined by reference to the best information readily available to the financial institution at the time final action is taken and to the financial institution's own procedures. Thus, financial institutions may rely on the title search they routinely perform as part of their underwriting procedures—for example, for home purchase loans. Regulation C does not require financial institutions to perform title searches solely to comply with HMDA reporting requirements. Financial institutions may rely on other information that is readily available to them at the time final action is taken and that they reasonably believe is accurate, such as the applicant's statement on the application or the applicant's credit report. For example, where the applicant indicates on the application that there is a mortgage on the property or where the applicant's credit report shows that the applicant has a mortgage—and that mortgage will not be paid off as part of the transaction—the financial institution may assume that the loan it originates is secured by a subordinate lien. If the same application did not result in an origination—for example, because the application was denied or withdrawn—the financial institution would report the application as an application for a subordinate-lien loan.
ii. Financial institutions may also consider their established procedures when determining lien status for applications that do not result in originations. For example, assume an applicant applies to a financial institution to refinance a $100,000 first mortgage; the applicant also has an open-end line of credit for $20,000. If the financial institution's practice in such a case is to ensure that it will have first-lien position—through
a subordination agreement with the holder of the lien securing the open-end line of credit—then the financial institution should report the application as an application for a first-lien covered loan.
2.
Multiple properties.
See comment 4(a)(9)-2 regarding transactions involving multiple properties with more than one property taken as security.

# Paragraph 4(a)(15)
1.
Credit score—relied on.
Except for purchased covered loans and partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(15) requires a financial institution to report the credit score or scores relied on in making the credit decision and information about the scoring model used to generate each score. A financial institution relies on a credit score in making the credit decision if the credit score was a factor in the credit decision even if it was not a dispositive factor. For example, if a credit score is one of multiple factors in a financial institution's credit decision, the financial institution has relied on the credit score even if the financial institution denies the application because one or more underwriting requirements other than the credit score are not satisfied.
2.
Credit score—multiple credit scores.
When a financial institution obtains or creates two or more credit scores for a single applicant or borrower but relies on only one score in making the credit decision (for example, by relying on the lowest, highest, most recent, or average of all of the scores), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting that credit score and information about the scoring model used. When a financial institution uses more than one credit scoring model and combines the scores into a composite credit score that it relies on, the financial institution reports that score and reports that more than one credit scoring model was used. When a financial institution obtains or creates two or more credit scores for an applicant or borrower and relies on multiple scores for the applicant or borrower in making the credit decision (for example, by relying on a scoring grid that considers each of the scores obtained or created for the applicant or borrower without combining the scores into a composite score), § 1003.4(a)(15) requires the financial institution to report one of the credit scores for the applicant or borrower that was relied on in making the credit decision. In choosing which credit score to report in this circumstance, a financial institution need not use the same approach for its entire HMDA submission, but it should be generally consistent (such as by routinely using one approach within a particular division of the institution or for a category of covered loans). In instances such as these, the financial institution should report the name and version of the credit scoring model for the score reported.
3.
Credit score—multiple applicants or borrowers.
In a transaction involving two or more applicants or borrowers for whom the financial institution obtains or creates a single credit score and relies on that credit score in making the credit decision for the transaction, the institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting that credit score for the applicant and reporting that the requirement is not applicable for the first co-applicant or, at the financial institution's discretion, by reporting that credit score for the first co-applicant and reporting that the requirement is not applicable for the applicant. Otherwise, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting a credit score for the applicant that it relied on in making the credit decision, if any, and a credit score for the first co-applicant that it relied on in making the credit decision, if any. To illustrate, assume a transaction involves one applicant and one co-applicant and that the financial institution obtains or creates two credit scores for the applicant and two credit scores for the co-applicant. Assume further that the financial institution relies on a single credit score that is the lowest, highest, most recent, or average of all of the credit scores obtained or created to make the credit decision for the transaction. The financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting that credit score and information about the scoring model used for the applicant and reporting that the requirement is not applicable for the first co-applicant or, at the financial institution's discretion, by reporting the data for the first co-applicant and reporting that the requirement is not applicable for the applicant. Alternatively, assume a transaction involves one applicant and one co-applicant and that the financial institution obtains or creates three credit scores for the applicant and three credit scores for the co-applicant. Assume further that the financial institution relies on the middle credit score for the applicant and the middle credit score for the co-applicant to make the credit decision for the transaction. The financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting both the middle score for the applicant and the middle score for the co-applicant.
4.
Transactions for which no credit decision was made.
If a file was closed for incompleteness or the application was withdrawn before a credit decision was made, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had obtained or created a credit score for the applicant or co-applicant. For example, if a file is closed for incompleteness and is so reported in accordance with § 1003.4(a)(8), the financial
institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had obtained or created a credit score for the applicant or co-applicant. Similarly, if an application was withdrawn by the applicant before a credit decision was made and is so reported in accordance with § 1003.4(a)(8), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had obtained or created a credit score for the applicant or co-applicant.
5.
Transactions for which no credit score was relied on.
If a financial institution makes a credit decision without relying on a credit score for the applicant or borrower, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable.
6.
Purchased covered loan.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable when the covered loan is a purchased covered loan.
7.
Non-natural person.
When the applicant and co-applicant, if applicable, are not natural persons, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(15) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable.

# Paragraph 4(a)(16)
1.
Reason for denial—general.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(16) by reporting the principal reason or reasons it denied the application, indicating up to four reasons. The financial institution should report only the principal reason or reasons it denied the application, even if there are fewer than four reasons. For example, if a financial institution denies the application because of the applicant's credit history and debt-to-income ratio, the financial institution need only report these two principal reasons. The reasons reported must be specific and accurately describe the principal reason or reasons the financial institution denied the application.
2.
Reason for denial—preapproval request denied.
Section 1003.4(a)(16) requires a financial institution to report the principal reason or reasons it denied the application. A request for a preapproval under a preapproval program as defined by § 1003.2(b)(2) is an application. If a financial institution denies a preapproval request, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(16) by reporting the reason or reasons it denied the preapproval request.
3.
Reason for denial—adverse action model form or similar form.
If a financial institution chooses to provide the applicant the reason or reasons it denied the application using the model form contained in appendix C to Regulation B (Form C-1, Sample Notice of Action Taken and Statement of Reasons) or a similar form, § 1003.4(a)(16) requires the financial institution to report the reason or reasons that were specified on the form by the financial institution, which includes reporting the “Other” reason or reasons that were specified on the form by the financial institution, if applicable. If a financial institution chooses to provide a disclosure of the applicant's right to a statement of specific reasons using the model form contained in appendix C to Regulation B (Form C-5, Sample Disclosure of Right to Request Specific Reasons for Credit Denial) or a similar form, or chooses to provide the denial reason or reasons orally under Regulation B, 12 CFR 1002.9(a)(2)(ii), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(16) by entering the principal reason or reasons it denied the application.
4.
Reason for denial—scope of requirement.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(16) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the action taken on the application, pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(8), is not a denial. For example, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(16) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the loan is originated or purchased by the financial institution, or the application or preapproval request was approved but not accepted, or the application was withdrawn before a credit decision was made, or the file was closed for incompleteness. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the principal reason or reasons it denied an application.
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.

# Paragraph 4(a)(17)(i)
1.
Total loan costs—scope of requirement.
Section 1003.4(a)(17)(i) does not require financial institutions to report the total loan costs for applications, or for transactions not subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.43(c), and 12 CFR 1026.19(f), such as open-end lines of credit, reverse mortgages, or loans or lines of credit made primarily for business or commercial purposes. In these cases, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(17)(i) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the total loan costs.
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.
2.
Purchased loans—applications received prior to the integrated disclosure effective date.
For purchased covered loans subject to this reporting requirement for which applications were received by the selling entity prior to the effective date of Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(17)(i) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction.
3.
Corrected disclosures.
If the amount of total loan costs changes because a financial
institution provides a corrected version of the disclosures required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(17)(i) by reporting the corrected amount, provided that the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the reporting period in which closing occurs. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(17)(i), the date the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower is the date disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(a)(3)(i). For example:
i. In the case of a financial institution's annual loan/application register submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure to the borrower to reflect a refund made pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), the financial institution reports the corrected amount of total loan costs only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which closing occurs.
ii. In the case of a financial institution's quarterly submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure to the borrower to reflect a refund made pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), the financial institution reports the corrected amount of total loan costs only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the quarter in which closing occurs. The financial institution does not report the corrected amount of total loan costs in its quarterly submission if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower after the end of the quarter in which closing occurs, even if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the deadline for timely submission of the financial institution's quarterly data. However, the financial institution reports the corrected amount of total loan costs on its annual loan/application register, provided that the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which closing occurs.

# Paragraph 4(a)(17)(ii)
1.
Total points and fees—scope of requirement.
Section 1003.4(a)(17)(ii) does not require financial institutions to report the total points and fees for transactions not subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.43(c), such as open-end lines of credit, reverse mortgages, or loans or lines of credit made primarily for business or commercial purposes, or for applications or purchased covered loans. In these cases, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(17)(ii) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the total points and fees.
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.
2.
Total points and fees cure mechanism.
For covered loans subject to this reporting requirement, if a financial institution determines that the transaction's total points and fees exceeded the applicable limit and cures the overage pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(3)(iii) and (iv), a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(17)(ii) by reporting the correct amount of total points and fees, provided that the cure was effected during the same reporting period in which closing occurred. For example, in the case of a financial institution's quarterly submission, the financial institution reports the revised amount of total points and fees only if it cured the overage prior to the end of the quarter in which closing occurred. The financial institution does not report the revised amount of total points and fees in its quarterly submission if it cured the overage after the end of the quarter, even if the cure was effected prior to the deadline for timely submission of the financial institution's quarterly data. However, the financial institution reports the revised amount of total points and fees on its annual loan/application register.

# Paragraph 4(a)(18)
1.
Origination charges—scope of requirement.
Section 1003.4(a)(18) does not require financial institutions to report the total borrower-paid origination charges for applications, or for transactions not subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), such as open-end lines of credit, reverse mortgages, or loans or lines of credit made primarily for business or commercial purposes. In these cases, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(18) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the total borrower-paid origination charges.
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.
2.
Purchased loans—applications received prior to the integrated disclosure effective date.
For purchased covered loans subject to this reporting requirement for which applications were received by the selling entity prior to the effective date of Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(18) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction.
3.
Corrected disclosures.
If the total amount of borrower-paid origination charges changes because a financial institution provides a corrected version of the disclosures required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(18) by reporting the corrected amount, provided that the
corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the reporting period in which closing occurs. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(18), the date the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower is the date disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(a)(3)(i). For example:
i. In the case of a financial institution's annual loan/application register submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure to the borrower to reflect a refund made pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), the financial institution reports the corrected amount of borrower-paid origination charges only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which closing occurs.
ii. In the case of a financial institution's quarterly submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure to the borrower to reflect a refund made pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), the financial institution reports the corrected amount of borrower-paid origination charges only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the quarter in which closing occurs. The financial institution does not report the corrected amount of borrower-paid origination charges in its quarterly submission if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower after the end of the quarter in which closing occurs, even if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the deadline for timely submission of the financial institution's quarterly data. However, the financial institution reports the corrected amount of borrower-paid origination charges on its annual loan/application register, provided that the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which closing occurs.

# Paragraph 4(a)(19)
1.
Discount points—scope of requirement.
Section 1003.4(a)(19) does not require financial institutions to report the discount points for applications, or for transactions not subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), such as open-end lines of credit, reverse mortgages, or loans or lines of credit made primarily for business or commercial purposes. In these cases, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(19) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the discount points.
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.
2.
Purchased loans—applications received prior to the integrated disclosure effective date.
For purchased covered loans subject to this reporting requirement for which applications were received by the selling entity prior to the effective date of Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(19) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction.
3.
Corrected disclosures.
If the amount of discount points changes because a financial institution provides a corrected version of the disclosures required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(19) by reporting the corrected amount, provided that the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the reporting period in which closing occurs. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(19), the date the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower is the date disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(a)(3)(i). For example:
i. In the case of a financial institution's annual loan/application register submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure to the borrower to reflect a refund made pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), the financial institution reports the corrected amount of discount points only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which closing occurred.
ii. In the case of a financial institution's quarterly submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure to the borrower to reflect a refund made pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), the financial institution reports the corrected amount of discount points only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the quarter in which closing occurred. The financial institution does not report the corrected amount of discount points in its quarterly submission if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower after the end of the quarter in which closing occurred, even if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the deadline for timely submission of the financial institution's quarterly data. However, the financial institution reports the corrected amount of discount points on its annual loan/application register, provided that the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which closing occurred.

# Paragraph 4(a)(20)
1.
Lender credits—scope of requirement.
Section 1003.4(a)(20) does not require financial institutions to report lender credits for applications, or for transactions not subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), such as open-end lines of credit, reverse mortgages, or loans or lines of credit made primarily for
business or commercial purposes. In these cases, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(20) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report lender credits.
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.
2.
Purchased loans—applications received prior to the integrated disclosure effective date.
For purchased covered loans subject to this reporting requirement for which applications were received by the selling entity prior to the effective date of Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(20) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction.
3.
Corrected disclosures.
If the amount of lender credits changes because a financial institution provides a corrected version of the disclosures required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f), pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(20) by reporting the corrected amount, provided that the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the reporting period in which closing occurred. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(20), the date the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower is the date disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.38(a)(3)(i). For example:
i. In the case of a financial institution's annual loan/application register submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure to the borrower to reflect a refund made pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), the financial institution reports the corrected amount of lender credits only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which closing occurred.
ii. In the case of a financial institution's quarterly submission made pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), if the financial institution provides a corrected disclosure to the borrower to reflect a refund made pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(f)(2)(v), the financial institution reports the corrected amount of lender credits only if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the quarter in which closing occurred. The financial institution does not report the corrected amount of lender credits in its quarterly submission if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower after the end of the quarter in which closing occurred, even if the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the deadline for timely submission of the financial institution's quarterly data. However, the financial institution reports the corrected amount of lender credits on its annual loan/application register, provided that the corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the calendar year in which closing occurred.

# Paragraph 4(a)(21)
1.
Interest rate—disclosures.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(21) requires a financial institution to identify the interest rate applicable to the approved application, or to the covered loan at closing or account opening. For covered loans or applications subject to the integrated mortgage disclosure requirements of Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(e) and (f), a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(21) by reporting the interest rate disclosed on the applicable disclosure. For covered loans or approved applications for which disclosures were provided pursuant to both the early and the final disclosure requirements in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(e) and (f), a financial institution reports the interest rate disclosed pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(f). A financial institution may rely on the definitions and commentary to the sections of Regulation Z relevant to the disclosure of the interest rate pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(e) or (f). If a financial institution provides a revised or corrected version of the disclosures required under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.19(e) or (f), pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(e)(3)(iv) or (f)(2), as applicable, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(21) by reporting the interest rate on the revised or corrected disclosure, provided that the revised or corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower prior to the end of the reporting period in which final action is taken. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(21), the date the revised or corrected disclosure was provided to the borrower is the date disclosed pursuant to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.37(a)(4) or 1026.38(a)(3)(i), as applicable.
2.
Applications.
In the case of an application, § 1003.4(a)(21) requires a financial institution to report the applicable interest rate only if the application has been approved by the financial institution but not accepted by the borrower. In such cases, a financial institution reports the interest rate applicable at the time that the application was approved by the financial institution. A financial institution may report the interest rate appearing on the disclosure provided pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.19(e) or (f) if such disclosure accurately reflects the interest rate at the time the application was approved. For applications that have been denied or withdrawn, or files closed for incompleteness, a financial institution reports that no interest rate was applicable to the application.
3.
Adjustable rate—interest rate unknown.
Except as provided in comment 4(a)(21)-1, for adjustable-rate covered loans or applications, if the interest rate is unknown at the time that the application was approved, or
at closing or account opening, a financial institution reports the fully-indexed rate based on the index applicable to the covered loan or application. For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(21), the fully-indexed rate is the index value and margin at the time that the application was approved, or, for covered loans, at closing or account opening.

# Paragraph 4(a)(22)
1.
Prepayment penalty term—scope of requirement.
Section 1003.4(a)(22) does not require financial institutions to report the term of any prepayment penalty for transactions not subject to Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026, such as loans or lines of credit made primarily for business or commercial purposes, or for reverse mortgages or purchased covered loans. In these cases, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(22) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the term of any prepayment penalty.
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.
2.
Transactions for which no prepayment penalty exists.
For covered loans or applications that have no prepayment penalty, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(22) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable to the transaction. A financial institution may rely on the definitions and commentary to Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.32(b)(6)(i) or (ii) in determining whether the terms of a transaction contain a prepayment penalty.

# Paragraph 4(a)(23)
1.
General.
For covered loans that are not purchased covered loans and that are not partially exempt under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(23) requires a financial institution to report the ratio of the applicant's or borrower's total monthly debt to total monthly income (debt-to-income ratio) relied on in making the credit decision. For example, if a financial institution calculated the applicant's or borrower's debt-to-income ratio twice—once according to the financial institution's own requirements and once according to the requirements of a secondary market investor—and the financial institution relied on the debt-to-income ratio calculated according to the secondary market investor's requirements in making the credit decision, § 1003.4(a)(23) requires the financial institution to report the debt-to-income ratio calculated according to the requirements of the secondary market investor.
2.
Transactions for which a debt-to-income ratio was one of multiple factors.
A financial institution relies on the ratio of the applicant's or borrower's total monthly debt to total monthly income (debt-to-income ratio) in making the credit decision if the debt-to-income ratio was a factor in the credit decision even if it was not a dispositive factor. For example, if the debt-to-income ratio was one of multiple factors in a financial institution's credit decision, the financial institution has relied on the debt-to-income ratio and complies with § 1003.4(a)(23) by reporting the debt-to-income ratio, even if the financial institution denied the application because one or more underwriting requirements other than the debt-to-income ratio were not satisfied.
3.
Transactions for which no credit decision was made.
If a file was closed for incompleteness, or if an application was withdrawn before a credit decision was made, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(23) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had calculated the ratio of the applicant's total monthly debt to total monthly income (debt-to-income ratio). For example, if a file was closed for incompleteness and was so reported in accordance with § 1003.4(a)(8), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(23) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had calculated the applicant's debt-to-income ratio. Similarly, if an application was withdrawn by the applicant before a credit decision was made, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(23) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had calculated the applicant's debt-to-income ratio.
4.
Transactions for which no debt-to-income ratio was relied on.
Section 1003.4(a)(23) does not require a financial institution to calculate the ratio of an applicant's or borrower's total monthly debt to total monthly income (debt-to-income ratio), nor does it require a financial institution to rely on an applicant's or borrower's debt-to-income ratio in making a credit decision. If a financial institution made a credit decision without relying on the applicant's or borrower's debt-to-income ratio, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(23) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable since no debt-to-income ratio was relied on in connection with the credit decision.
5.
Non-natural person.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(23) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable when the applicant and co-applicant, if applicable, are not natural persons.
6.
Multifamily dwellings.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(23) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable for a covered loan secured by, or an application proposed to be secured by, a multifamily dwelling.
7.
Purchased covered loans.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(23) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable when reporting a purchased covered loan.

# Paragraph 4(a)(24)
1.
General.
Except for purchased covered loans and partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(24) requires a financial institution to report the ratio of the total amount of debt secured by the property to the value of the property (combined loan-to-value ratio) relied on in making the credit decision. For example, if a financial institution calculated a combined loan-to-value ratio twice—once according to the financial institution's own requirements and once according to the requirements of a secondary market investor—and the financial institution relied on the combined loan-to-value ratio calculated according to the secondary market investor's requirements in making the credit decision, § 1003.4(a)(24) requires the financial institution to report the combined loan-to-value ratio calculated according to the requirements of the secondary market investor.
2.
Transactions for which a combined loan-to-value ratio was one of multiple factors.
A financial institution relies on the ratio of the total amount of debt secured by the property to the value of the property (combined loan-to-value ratio) in making the credit decision if the combined loan-to-value ratio was a factor in the credit decision, even if it was not a dispositive factor. For example, if the combined loan-to-value ratio is one of multiple factors in a financial institution's credit decision, the financial institution has relied on the combined loan-to-value ratio and complies with § 1003.4(a)(24) by reporting the combined loan-to-value ratio, even if the financial institution denies the application because one or more underwriting requirements other than the combined loan-to-value ratio are not satisfied.
3.
Transactions for which no credit decision was made.
If a file was closed for incompleteness, or if an application was withdrawn before a credit decision was made, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(24) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had calculated the ratio of the total amount of debt secured by the property to the value of the property (combined loan-to-value ratio). For example, if a file is closed for incompleteness and is so reported in accordance with § 1003.4(a)(8), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(24) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had calculated a combined loan-to-value ratio. Similarly, if an application was withdrawn by the applicant before a credit decision was made and is so reported in accordance with § 1003.4(a)(8), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(24) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had calculated a combined loan-to-value ratio.
4.
Transactions for which no combined loan-to-value ratio was relied on.
Section 1003.4(a)(24) does not require a financial institution to calculate the ratio of the total amount of debt secured by the property to the value of the property (combined loan-to-value ratio), nor does it require a financial institution to rely on a combined loan-to-value ratio in making a credit decision. If a financial institution makes a credit decision without relying on a combined loan-to-value ratio, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(24) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable since no combined loan-to-value ratio was relied on in making the credit decision.
5.
Purchased covered loan.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(24) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable when the covered loan is a purchased covered loan.
6.
Property.
A financial institution reports the combined loan-to-value ratio relied on in making the credit decision, regardless of which property or properties it used in the combined loan-to-value ratio calculation. The property used in the combined loan-to-value ratio calculation does not need to be the property identified in § 1003.4(a)(9) and may include more than one property and non-real property. For example, if a financial institution originated a covered loan for the purchase of a multifamily dwelling, the loan was secured by the multifamily dwelling and by non-real property, such as securities, and the financial institution used the multifamily dwelling and the non-real property to calculate the combined loan-to-value ratio that it relied on in making the credit decision, § 1003.4(a)(24) requires the financial institution to report the relied upon ratio. Section 1003.4(a)(24) does not require a financial institution to use a particular combined loan-to-value ratio calculation method but instead requires financial institutions to report the combined loan-to-value ratio relied on in making the credit decision.

# Paragraph 4(a)(25)
1.
Amortization and maturity.
For a fully amortizing covered loan, the number of months after which the legal obligation matures is the number of months in the amortization schedule, ending with the final payment. Some covered loans do not fully amortize during the maturity term, such as covered loans with a balloon payment; such loans should still be reported using the maturity term rather than the amortization term, even in the case of covered loans that mature before fully amortizing but have reset options. For example, a 30-year fully amortizing covered loan would be reported with a term of “360,” while a five year balloon covered loan would be reported with a loan term of “60.”
2.
Non-monthly repayment periods.
If a covered loan or application includes a schedule with repayment periods measured in a unit of time other than months, the financial institution should report the covered loan or application term using an equivalent number of whole months without regard for any remainder.
3.
Purchased loans.
For a covered loan that was purchased, a financial institution reports the number of months after which the legal obligation matures as measured from the covered loan's origination.
4.
Open-end line of credit.
For an open-end line of credit with a definite term, a financial institution reports the number of months from origination until the account termination date, including both the draw and repayment period.
5.
Loan term—scope of requirement.
For a covered loan or application without a definite term, such as a reverse mortgage, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(25) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the loan term.
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.

# Paragraph 4(a)(26)
1.
Types of introductory rates.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(26) requires a financial institution to report the number of months, or proposed number of months in the case of an application, from closing or account opening until the first date the interest rate may change. For example, assume an open-end line of credit contains an introductory or “teaser” interest rate for two months after the date of account opening, after which the interest rate may adjust. In this example, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(26) by reporting the number of months as “2.” Section 1003.4(a)(26) requires a financial institution to report the number of months based on when the first interest rate adjustment may occur, even if an interest rate adjustment is not required to occur at that time and even if the rates that will apply, or the periods for which they will apply, are not known at closing or account opening. For example, if a closed-end mortgage loan with a 30-year term has an adjustable-rate product with an introductory interest rate for the first 60 months, after which the interest rate is permitted, but not required to vary, according to the terms of an index rate, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(26) by reporting the number of months as “60.” Similarly, if a closed-end mortgage loan with a 30-year term is a step-rate product with an introductory interest rate for the first 24 months, after which the interest rate will increase to a different known interest rate for the next 36 months, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(26) by reporting the number of months as “24.”
2.
Preferred rates.
Section 1003.4(a)(26) does not require reporting of introductory interest rate periods based on preferred rates unless the terms of the legal obligation provide that the preferred rate will expire at a certain defined date. Preferred rates include terms of the legal obligation that provide that the initial underlying rate is fixed but that it may increase or decrease upon the occurrence of some future event, such as an employee leaving the employ of the financial institution, the borrower closing an existing deposit account with the financial institution, or the borrower revoking an election to make automated payments. In these cases, because it is not known at the time of closing or account opening whether the future event will occur, and if so, when it will occur, § 1003.4(a)(26) does not require reporting of an introductory interest rate period.
3.
Loan or application with a fixed rate.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(26) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable for a covered loan with a fixed rate or an application for a covered loan with a fixed rate.
4.
Purchased loan.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(26) by reporting that requirement is not applicable when the covered loan is a purchased covered loan with a fixed rate.
5.
Non-monthly introductory periods.
If a covered loan or application includes an introductory interest rate period measured in a unit of time other than months, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(26) by reporting the introductory interest rate period for the covered loan or application using an equivalent number of whole months without regard for any remainder. For example, assume an open-end line of credit contains an introductory interest rate for 50 days after the date of account opening, after which the interest rate may adjust. In this example, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(26) by reporting the number of months as “1.” The financial institution must report one month for any introductory interest rate period that totals less than one whole month.

# Paragraph 4(a)(27)
1.
General.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(27) requires reporting of contractual features that would allow payments other than fully amortizing payments. Section 1003.4(a)(27) defines the contractual features by reference to Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 1026, but without regard to whether the covered loan is consumer credit, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(12), is extended by a creditor, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(17), or is extended to a consumer,
as defined in § 1026.2(a)(11), and without regard to whether the property is a dwelling as defined in § 1026.2(a)(19). For example, assume that a financial institution originates a business-purpose transaction that is exempt from Regulation Z pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.3(a)(1), to finance the purchase of a multifamily dwelling, and that there is a balloon payment, as defined by Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.18(s)(5)(i), at the end of the loan term. The multifamily dwelling is a dwelling under § 1003.2(f), but not under Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(19). In this example, the financial institution should report the business-purpose transaction as having a balloon payment under § 1003.4(a)(27)(i), assuming the other requirements of this part are met. Aside from these distinctions, financial institutions may rely on the definitions and related commentary provided in the appropriate sections of Regulation Z referenced in § 1003.4(a)(27) of this part in determining whether the contractual feature should be reported.

# Paragraph 4(a)(28)
1.
General.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(28) requires a financial institution to report the property value relied on in making the credit decision. For example, if the institution relies on an appraisal or other valuation for the property in calculating the loan-to-value ratio, it reports that value; if the institution relies on the purchase price of the property in calculating the loan-to-value ratio, it reports that value.
2.
Multiple property values.
When a financial institution obtains two or more valuations of the property securing or proposed to secure the covered loan, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(28) by reporting the value relied on in making the credit decision. For example, when a financial institution obtains an appraisal, an automated valuation model report, and a broker price opinion with different values for the property, it reports the value relied on in making the credit decision. Section § 1003.4(a)(28) does not require a financial institution to use a particular property valuation method, but instead requires a financial institution to report the valuation relied on in making the credit decision.
3.
Transactions for which no credit decision was made.
If a file was closed for incompleteness or the application was withdrawn before a credit decision was made, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(28) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had obtained a property value. For example, if a file is closed for incompleteness and is so reported in accordance with § 1003.4(a)(8), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(28) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had obtained a property value. Similarly, if an application was withdrawn by the applicant before a credit decision was made and is so reported in accordance with § 1003.4(a)(8), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(28) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, even if the financial institution had obtained a property value.
4.
Transactions for which no property value was relied on.
Section 1003.4(a)(28) does not require a financial institution to obtain a property valuation, nor does it require a financial institution to rely on a property value in making a credit decision. If a financial institution makes a credit decision without relying on a property value, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(28) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable since no property value was relied on in making the credit decision.

# Paragraph 4(a)(29)
1.
Classification under State law.
A financial institution should report a covered loan that is or would have been secured only by a manufactured home but not the land on which it is sited as secured by a manufactured home and not land, even if the manufactured home is considered real property under applicable State law.
2.
Manufactured home community.
A manufactured home community that is a multifamily dwelling is not considered a manufactured home for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(29).
3.
Multiple properties.
See comment 4(a)(9)-2 regarding transactions involving multiple properties with more than one property taken as security.
4.
Scope of requirement.
A financial institution reports that the requirement is not applicable for a covered loan where the dwelling related to the property identified in § 1003.4(a)(9) is not a manufactured home. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the information specified in § 1003.4(a)(29).
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.

# Paragraph 4(a)(30)
1.
Indirect land ownership.
Indirect land ownership can occur when the applicant or borrower is or will be a member of a resident-owned community structured as a housing cooperative in which the occupants own an entity that holds the underlying land of the manufactured home community. In such communities, the applicant or borrower may still have a lease and pay rent for the lot on which his or her manufactured home is or will be located, but the property interest
type for such an arrangement should be reported as indirect ownership if the applicant is or will be a member of the cooperative that owns the underlying land of the manufactured home community. If an applicant resides or will reside in such a community but is not a member, the property interest type should be reported as a paid leasehold.
2.
Leasehold interest.
A leasehold interest could be formalized in a lease with a defined term and specified rent payments, or could arise as a tenancy at will through permission of a land owner without any written, formal arrangement. For example, assume a borrower will locate the manufactured home in a manufactured home community, has a written lease for a lot in that park, and the lease specifies rent payments. In this example, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(30) by reporting a paid leasehold. However, if instead the borrower will locate the manufactured home on land owned by a family member without a written lease and with no agreement as to rent payments, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(30) by reporting an unpaid leasehold.
3.
Multiple properties.
See comment 4(a)(9)-2 regarding transactions involving multiple properties with more than one property taken as security.
4.
Manufactured home community.
A manufactured home community that is a multifamily dwelling is not considered a manufactured home for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(30).
5.
Direct ownership.
An applicant or borrower has a direct ownership interest in the land on which the dwelling is or is to be located when it has a more than possessory real property ownership interest in the land such as fee simple ownership.
6.
Scope of requirement.
A financial institution reports that the requirement is not applicable for a covered loan where the dwelling related to the property identified in § 1003.4(a)(9) is not a manufactured home. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the information specified in § 1003.4(a)(30).
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.

# Paragraph 4(a)(31)
1.
Multiple properties.
See comment 4(a)(9)-2 regarding transactions involving multiple properties with more than one property taken as security.
2.
Manufactured home community.
For an application or covered loan secured by a manufactured home community, the financial institution should include in the number of individual dwelling units the total number of manufactured home sites that secure the loan and are available for occupancy, regardless of whether the sites are currently occupied or have manufactured homes currently attached. A financial institution may include in the number of individual dwelling units other units such as recreational vehicle pads, manager apartments, rental apartments, site-built homes or other rentable space that are ancillary to the operation of the secured property if it considers such units under its underwriting guidelines or the guidelines of an investor, or if it tracks the number of such units for its own internal purposes. For a loan secured by a single manufactured home that is or will be located in a manufactured home community, the financial institution should report one individual dwelling unit.
3.
Condominium and cooperative projects.
For a covered loan secured by a condominium or cooperative property, the financial institution reports the total number of individual dwelling units securing the covered loan or proposed to secure the covered loan in the case of an application. For example:
i. Assume that a loan is secured by the entirety of a cooperative property. The financial institution would report the number of individual dwelling units in the cooperative property.
ii. Assume that a covered loan is secured by 30 individual dwelling units in a condominium property that contains 100 individual dwelling units and that the loan is not exempt from Regulation C under § 1003.3(c)(3). The financial institution reports 30 individual dwelling units.
4.
Best information available.
A financial institution may rely on the best information readily available to the financial institution at the time final action is taken and on the financial institution's own procedures in reporting the information required by § 1003.4(a)(31). Information readily available could include, for example, information provided by an applicant that the financial institution reasonably believes, information contained in a property valuation or inspection, or information obtained from public records.

# Paragraph 4(a)(32)
1.
Affordable housing income restrictions.
For purposes of § 1003.4(a)(32), affordable housing income-restricted units are individual dwelling units that have restrictions based on the income level of occupants pursuant to restrictive covenants encumbering the property. Such income levels are frequently expressed as a percentage of area median income by household size as established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development or another agency responsible for implementing the applicable affordable housing program. Such restrictions are frequently part of compliance with programs
that provide public funds, special tax treatment, or density bonuses to encourage development or preservation of affordable housing. Such restrictions are frequently evidenced by a use agreement, regulatory agreement, land use restriction agreement, housing assistance payments contract, or similar agreement. Rent control or rent stabilization laws, and the acceptance by the owner or manager of a multifamily dwelling of Housing Choice Vouchers (24 CFR part 982) or other similar forms of portable housing assistance that are tied to an occupant and not an individual dwelling unit, are not affordable housing income-restricted dwelling units for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(32).
2.
Federal affordable housing sources.
Examples of Federal programs and funding sources that may result in individual dwelling units that are reportable under § 1003.4(a)(32) include, but are not limited to:
i. Affordable housing programs pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f);
ii. Public housing (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(6));
iii. The HOME Investment Partnerships program (24 CFR part 92);
iv. The Community Development Block Grant program (24 CFR part 570);
v. Multifamily tax subsidy project funding through tax-exempt bonds or tax credits (26 U.S.C. 42; 26 U.S.C. 142(d));
vi. Project-based vouchers (24 CFR part 983);
vii. Federal Home Loan Bank affordable housing program funding (12 CFR part 1291); and
viii. Rural Housing Service multifamily housing loans and grants (7 CFR part 3560).
3.
State and local government affordable housing sources.
Examples of State and local sources that may result in individual dwelling units that are reportable under § 1003.4(a)(32) include, but are not limited to: State or local administration of Federal funds or programs; State or local funding programs for affordable housing or rental assistance, including programs operated by independent public authorities; inclusionary zoning laws; and tax abatement or tax increment financing contingent on affordable housing requirements.
4.
Multiple properties.
See comment 4(a)(9)-2 regarding transactions involving multiple properties with more than one property taken as security.
5.
Best information available.
A financial institution may rely on the best information readily available to the financial institution at the time final action is taken and on the financial institution's own procedures in reporting the information required by § 1003.4(a)(32). Information readily available could include, for example, information provided by an applicant that the financial institution reasonably believes, information contained in a property valuation or inspection, or information obtained from public records.
6.
Scope of requirement.
A financial institution reports that the requirement is not applicable if the property securing the covered loan or, in the case of an application, proposed to secure the covered loan is not a multifamily dwelling. For partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), an insured depository institution or insured credit union is not required to report the information specified in § 1003.4(a)(32).
See
§ 1003.3(d) and related commentary.

# Paragraph 4(a)(33)
1.
Agents.
If a financial institution is reporting actions taken by its agent consistent with comment 4(a)-4, the agent is not considered the financial institution for the purposes of § 1003.4(a)(33). For example, assume that an applicant submitted an application to Financial Institution A, and Financial Institution A made the credit decision acting as Financial Institution B's agent under State law. A covered loan was originated and the obligation arising from a covered loan was initially payable to Financial Institution A. Financial Institution B purchased the loan. Financial Institution B reports the origination and not the purchase, and indicates that the application was not submitted directly to the financial institution and that the transaction was not initially payable to the financial institution.

# Paragraph 4(a)(33)(i)
1.
General.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(33)(i) requires a financial institution to indicate whether the applicant or borrower submitted the application directly to the financial institution that is reporting the covered loan or application. The following scenarios demonstrate whether an application was submitted directly to the financial institution that is reporting the covered loan or application.
i. The application was submitted directly to the financial institution if the mortgage loan originator identified pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(34) was an employee of the reporting financial institution when the originator performed the origination activities for the covered loan or application that is being reported.
ii. The application was also submitted directly to the financial institution reporting the covered loan or application if the reporting financial institution directed the applicant to a third-party agent (
e.g.,
a credit union service organization) that performed loan origination activities on behalf of the financial institution and did not assist the applicant with applying for covered loans with other institutions.
iii. If an applicant contacted and completed an application with a broker or correspondent that forwarded the application to a financial institution for approval, an application was not submitted to the financial institution.

# Paragraph 4(a)(33)(ii)
1.
General.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(33)(ii) requires financial institutions to report whether the obligation arising from a covered loan was or, in the case of an application, would have been initially payable to the institution. An obligation is initially payable to the institution if the obligation is initially payable either on the face of the note or contract to the financial institution that is reporting the covered loan or application. For example, if a financial institution reported an origination of a covered loan that it approved prior to closing, that closed in the name of a third-party, such as a correspondent lender, and that the financial institution purchased after closing, the covered loan was not initially payable to the financial institution.
2.
Applications.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(33)(ii) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable if the institution had not determined whether the covered loan would have been initially payable to the institution reporting the application when the application was withdrawn, denied, or closed for incompleteness.

# Paragraph 4(a)(34)
1.
NMLSR ID.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(34) requires a financial institution to report the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry unique identifier (NMLSR ID) for the mortgage loan originator, as defined in Regulation G, 12 CFR 1007.102, or Regulation H, 12 CFR 1008.23, as applicable. The NMLSR ID is a unique number or other identifier generally assigned to individuals registered or licensed through NMLSR to provide loan originating services. For more information, see the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008, title V of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (S.A.F.E. Act), 12 U.S.C. 5101
et seq.,
and its implementing regulations (12 CFR part 1007 and 12 CFR part 1008).
2.
Mortgage loan originator without NMLSR ID.
An NMLSR ID for the mortgage loan originator is not required by § 1003.4(a)(34) to be reported by a financial institution if the mortgage loan originator is not required to obtain and has not been assigned an NMLSR ID. For example, certain individual mortgage loan originators may not be required to obtain an NMLSR ID for the particular transaction being reported by the financial institution, such as a commercial loan. However, some mortgage loan originators may have obtained an NMLSR ID even if they are not required to obtain one for that particular transaction. If a mortgage loan originator has been assigned an NMLSR ID, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(34) by reporting the mortgage loan originator's NMLSR ID regardless of whether the mortgage loan originator is required to obtain an NMLSR ID for the particular transaction being reported by the financial institution. In the event that the mortgage loan originator is not required to obtain and has not been assigned an NMLSR ID, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(34) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable.
3.
Multiple mortgage loan originators.
If more than one individual associated with a covered loan or application meets the definition of a mortgage loan originator, as defined in Regulation G, 12 CFR 1007.102, or Regulation H, 12 CFR 1008.23, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(34) by reporting the NMLSR ID of the individual mortgage loan originator with primary responsibility for the transaction as of the date of action taken pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(8)(ii). A financial institution that establishes and follows a reasonable, written policy for determining which individual mortgage loan originator has primary responsibility for the reported transaction as of the date of action taken complies with § 1003.4(a)(34).
4.
Purchased loans.
If a financial institution purchases a covered loan that satisfies the coverage criteria of Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.36(g), and that was originated prior to January 10, 2014, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(34) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable. In addition, if a financial institution purchases a covered loan that does not satisfy the coverage criteria of Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.36(g), and that was originated prior to January 1, 2018, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(34) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable. Purchasers of both such types of covered loans may report the NMLSR ID.

# Paragraph 4(a)(35)
1.
Automated underwriting system data—general.
Except for purchased covered loans and partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(35) requires a financial institution to report the name of the automated underwriting system (AUS) used by the financial institution to evaluate the application and the result generated by that AUS. The following scenarios illustrate when a financial institution reports the name of the AUS used by the financial institution to evaluate the application and the result generated by that AUS.
i. A financial institution that uses an AUS, as defined in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii), to evaluate an
application, must report the name of the AUS used by the financial institution to evaluate the application and the result generated by that system, regardless of whether the AUS was used in its underwriting process. For example, if a financial institution uses an AUS to evaluate an application prior to submitting the application through its underwriting process, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of the AUS it used to evaluate the application and the result generated by that system.
ii. A financial institution that uses an AUS, as defined in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii), to evaluate an application, must report the name of the AUS it used to evaluate the application and the result generated by that system, regardless of whether the financial institution intends to hold the covered loan in its portfolio or sell the covered loan. For example, if a financial institution uses an AUS developed by a securitizer to evaluate an application and intends to sell the covered loan to that securitizer but ultimately does not sell the covered loan and instead holds the covered loan in its portfolio, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of the securitizer's AUS that the institution used to evaluate the application and the result generated by that system. Similarly, if a financial institution uses an AUS developed by a securitizer to evaluate an application to determine whether to originate the covered loan but does not intend to sell the covered loan to that securitizer and instead holds the covered loan in its portfolio, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of the securitizer's AUS that the institution used to evaluate the application and the result generated by that system.
iii. A financial institution that uses an AUS, as defined in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii), that is developed by a securitizer to evaluate an application, must report the name of the AUS it used to evaluate the application and the result generated by that system, regardless of whether the securitizer intends to hold the covered loan it purchased from the financial institution in its portfolio or securitize the covered loan. For example, if a financial institution uses an AUS developed by a securitizer to evaluate an application and the financial institution sells the covered loan to that securitizer but the securitizer holds the covered loan it purchased in its portfolio, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of the securitizer's AUS that the institution used to evaluate the application and the result generated by that system.
iv. A financial institution, which is also a securitizer, that uses its own AUS, as defined in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii), to evaluate an application, must report the name of the AUS it used to evaluate the application and the result generated by that system, regardless of whether the financial institution intends to hold the covered loan it originates in its portfolio, purchase the covered loan, or securitize the covered loan. For example, if a financial institution, which is also a securitizer, has developed its own AUS and uses that AUS to evaluate an application that it intends to originate and hold in its portfolio and not purchase or securitize the covered loan, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of its AUS that it used to evaluate the application and the result generated by that system.
2.
Definition of automated underwriting system.
A financial institution must report the information required by § 1003.4(a)(35)(i) if the financial institution uses an automated underwriting system (AUS), as defined in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii), to evaluate an application. To be covered by the definition in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii), a system must be an electronic tool that has been developed by a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or a Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit. A person is a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit, respectively, if it has securitized, provided Federal government insurance, or provided a Federal government guarantee for a closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit at any point in time. A person may be a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit, respectively, for purposes of § 1003.4(a)(35) even if it is not actively securitizing, insuring, or guaranteeing closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit at the time a financial institution uses the AUS to evaluate an application. Where the person that developed the electronic tool has never been a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit, respectively, at the time a financial institution uses the tool to evaluate an application, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable because an AUS was not used to evaluate the application. If a financial institution has developed its own proprietary system that it uses to evaluate an application and the financial institution is also a securitizer, then the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of that system and the result generated by that system. On the other hand, if a financial institution has developed its own proprietary system that it uses to evaluate an application and the financial institution is not a securitizer, then the financial institution is not required by § 1003.4(a)(35) to report the use of that system
and the result generated by that system. In addition, for an AUS to be covered by the definition in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii), the system must provide a result regarding both the credit risk of the applicant and the eligibility of the covered loan to be originated, purchased, insured, or guaranteed by the securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor that developed the system being used to evaluate the application. For example, if a system is an electronic tool that provides a determination of the eligibility of the covered loan to be originated, purchased, insured, or guaranteed by the securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor that developed the system being used by a financial institution to evaluate the application, but the system does not also provide an assessment of the creditworthiness of the applicant—such as an evaluation of the applicant's income, debt, and credit history—then that system does not qualify as an AUS, as defined in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii). A financial institution that uses a system that is not an AUS, as defined in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii), to evaluate an application does not report the information required by § 1003.4(a)(35)(i).
3.
Reporting automated underwriting system data—multiple results.
When a financial institution uses one or more automated underwriting systems (AUS) to evaluate the application and the system or systems generate two or more results, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting, except for purchased covered loans, the name of the AUS used by the financial institution to evaluate the application and the result generated by that AUS as determined by the following principles. To determine what AUS (or AUSs) and result (or results) to report under § 1003.4(a)(35), a financial institution follows each of the principles that is applicable to the application in question, in the order in which they are set forth below.
i. If a financial institution obtains two or more AUS results and the AUS generating one of those results corresponds to the loan type reported pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(2), the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting that AUS name and result. For example, if a financial institution evaluates an application using the Federal Housing Administration's (FHA) Technology Open to Approved Lenders (TOTAL) Scorecard and subsequently evaluates the application with an AUS used to determine eligibility for a non-FHA loan, but ultimately originates an FHA loan, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting TOTAL Scorecard and the result generated by that system. If a financial institution obtains two or more AUS results and more than one of those AUS results is generated by a system that corresponds to the loan type reported pursuant to § 1003.4(a)(2), the financial institution identifies which AUS result should be reported by following the principle set forth below in comment 4(a)(35)-3.ii.
ii. If a financial institution obtains two or more AUS results and the AUS generating one of those results corresponds to the purchaser, insurer, or guarantor, if any, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting that AUS name and result. For example, if a financial institution evaluates an application with the AUS of Securitizer A and subsequently evaluates the application with the AUS of Securitizer B, but the financial institution ultimately originates a covered loan that it sells within the same calendar year to Securitizer A, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of Securitizer A's AUS and the result generated by that system. If a financial institution obtains two or more AUS results and more than one of those AUS results is generated by a system that corresponds to the purchaser, insurer, or guarantor, if any, the financial institution identifies which AUS result should be reported by following the principle set forth below in comment 4(a)(35)-3.iii.
iii. If a financial institution obtains two or more AUS results and none of the systems generating those results correspond to the purchaser, insurer, or guarantor, if any, or the financial institution is following this principle because more than one AUS result is generated by a system that corresponds to either the loan type or the purchaser, insurer, or guarantor, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the AUS result generated closest in time to the credit decision and the name of the AUS that generated that result. For example, if a financial institution evaluates an application with the AUS of Securitizer A, subsequently again evaluates the application with Securitizer A's AUS, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of Securitizer A's AUS and the second AUS result. Similarly, if a financial institution obtains a result from an AUS that requires the financial institution to underwrite the loan manually, but the financial institution subsequently processes the application through a different AUS that also generates a result, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of the second AUS that it used to evaluate the application and the AUS result generated by that system.
iv. If a financial institution obtains two or more AUS results at the same time and the principles in comment 4(a)(35)-3.i through .iii do not apply, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of all of the AUSs used by the financial institution to evaluate the application and the results generated by each of those systems. For example, if a financial institution
simultaneously evaluates an application with the AUS of Securitizer A and the AUS of Securitizer B, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of both Securitizer A's AUS and Securitizer B's AUS and the results generated by each of those systems. In any event, however, the financial institution does not report more than five AUSs and five results. If more than five AUSs and five results meet the criteria in this principle, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by choosing any five among them to report.
4.
Transactions for which an automated underwriting system was not used to evaluate the application.
Section 1003.4(a)(35) does not require a financial institution to evaluate an application using an automated underwriting system (AUS), as defined in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii). For example, if a financial institution only manually underwrites an application and does not use an AUS to evaluate the application, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable since an AUS was not used to evaluate the application.
5.
Purchased covered loan.
A financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable when the covered loan is a purchased covered loan.
6.
Non-natural person.
When the applicant and co-applicant, if applicable, are not natural persons, a financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable.
7.
Determination of securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor.
Section 1003.4(a)(35)(ii) provides that an “automated underwriting system” means an electronic tool developed by a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit that provides a result regarding the credit risk of the applicant and whether the covered loan is eligible to be originated, purchased, insured, or guaranteed by that securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor. A person is a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit, respectively, if it has ever securitized, insured, or guaranteed a closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit. If a financial institution knows or reasonably believes that the system it is using to evaluate an application is an electronic tool that has been developed by a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit, then the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of that system and the result generated by that system. Knowledge or reasonable belief could, for example, be based on a sales agreement or other related documents, the financial institution's previous transactions or relationship with the developer of the electronic tool, or representations made by the developer of the electronic tool demonstrating that the developer of the electronic tool is a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit. If a financial institution does not know or reasonably believe that the system it is using to evaluate an application is an electronic tool that has been developed by a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit, the financial institution complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable, provided that the financial institution maintains procedures reasonably adapted to determine whether the electronic tool it is using to evaluate an application meets the definition in § 1003.4(a)(35)(ii). Reasonably adapted procedures include attempting to determine with reasonable frequency, such as annually, whether the developer of the electronic tool is a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit. For example:
i. In the course of renewing an annual sales agreement the developer of the electronic tool represents to the financial institution that it has never been a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit. On this basis, the financial institution does not know or reasonably believe that the system it is using to evaluate an application is an electronic tool that has been developed by a securitizer, Federal government insurer, or Federal government guarantor of closed-end mortgage loans or open-end lines of credit and complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting that the requirement is not applicable.
ii. Based on their previous transactions a financial institution is aware that the developer of the electronic tool it is using to evaluate an application has securitized a closed-end mortgage loan or open-end line of credit in the past. On this basis, the financial institution knows or reasonably believes that the developer of the electronic tool is a securitizer and complies with § 1003.4(a)(35) by reporting the name of that system and the result generated by that system.

# Paragraph 4(a)(37)
1.
Open-end line of credit.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(37) requires a financial institution to identify whether the covered loan or the application is for an open-end line of credit.
See comments 2(o)-1 and -2 for a discussion of open-end line of credit and extension of credit.

# Paragraph 4(a)(38)
1.
Primary purpose.
Except for partially exempt transactions under § 1003.3(d), § 1003.4(a)(38) requires a financial institution to identify whether the covered loan is, or the application is for a covered loan that will be, made primarily for a business or commercial purpose. See comment 3(c)(10)-2 for a discussion of how to determine the primary purpose of the transaction and the standard applicable to a financial institution's determination of the primary purpose of the transaction. See comments 3(c)(10)-3 and 4 for examples of excluded and reportable business- or commercial-purpose transactions.

# 4(f) Quarterly Recording of Data
1.
General.
Section 1003.4(f) requires a financial institution to record the data collected pursuant to § 1003.4 on a loan/application register within 30 calendar days after the end of the calendar quarter in which final action is taken. Section 1003.4(f) does not require a financial institution to record data on a single loan/application register on a quarterly basis. Rather, for purposes of § 1003.4(f), a financial institution may record data on a single loan/application register or separately for different branches or different loan types (such as home purchase or home improvement loans, or loans on multifamily dwellings).
2.
Agency requirements.
Certain State or Federal regulations may require a financial institution to record its data more frequently than is required under Regulation C.
3.
Form of quarterly records.
A financial institution may maintain the records required by § 1003.4(f) in electronic or any other format, provided the institution can make the information available to its regulatory agency in a timely manner upon request.

# Section 1003.5—Disclosure and Reporting

# 5(a) Reporting to Agency
1.
Quarterly reporting—coverage.
i. Section 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) requires that, within 60 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter except the fourth quarter, a financial institution that reported for the preceding calendar year at least 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, must submit its loan/application register containing all data required to be recorded for that quarter pursuant to § 1003.4(f). For example, if for calendar year 2019 Financial Institution A reports 60,000 covered loans, excluding purchased covered loans, it must comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in calendar year 2020. Similarly, if for calendar year 2019 Financial Institution A reports 20,000 applications and 40,000 covered loans, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, it must comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in calendar year 2020. If for calendar year 2020 Financial Institution A reports fewer than 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, it is not required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in calendar year 2021.
ii. In the calendar year of a merger or acquisition, the surviving or newly formed financial institution is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), effective the date of the merger or acquisition, if a combined total of at least 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, is reported for the preceding calendar year by or for the surviving or newly formed financial institution and each financial institution or branch office merged or acquired. For example, Financial Institution A and Financial Institution B merge to form Financial Institution C in 2020. Financial Institution A reports 40,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019. Financial Institution B reports 21,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019. Financial Institution C is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) effective the date of the merger. Similarly, for example, Financial Institution A acquires a branch office of Financial Institution B in 2020. Financial Institution A reports 58,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019. Financial Institution B reports 3,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019 for the branch office acquired by Financial Institution A. Financial Institution A is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in 2020 effective the date of the branch acquisition.
iii. In the calendar year following a merger or acquisition, the surviving or newly formed financial institution is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) if a combined total of at least 60,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, is reported for the preceding calendar year by or for the surviving or newly formed financial institution and each financial institution or branch office merged or acquired. For example, Financial Institution A and Financial Institution B merge to form Financial Institution C in 2019. Financial Institution C reports 21,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, each for Financial Institution A, B, and C for 2019, for a combined total of 63,000 covered loans and applications reported, excluding purchased covered loans. Financial Institution C is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in 2020. Similarly, for example, Financial Institution A acquires a branch office of Financial Institution B in
2019. Financial Institution A reports 58,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019. Financial Institution A or B reports 3,000 covered loans and applications, combined, excluding purchased covered loans, for 2019 for the branch office acquired by Financial Institution A. Financial Institution A is required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) in 2020.
2.
Change in appropriate Federal agency.
If the appropriate Federal agency for a financial institution changes (as a consequence of a merger or a change in the institution's charter, for example), the institution must identify its new appropriate Federal agency in its annual submission of data pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i) for the year of the change. For example, if an institution's appropriate Federal agency changes in February 2018, it must identify its new appropriate Federal agency beginning with the annual submission of its 2018 data by March 1, 2019 pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i). For an institution required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii), the institution also must identify its new appropriate Federal agency in its quarterly submission of data pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) beginning with its submission for the quarter of the change, unless the change occurs during the fourth quarter. For example, if the appropriate Federal agency for an institution required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) changes during February 2020, the institution must identify its new appropriate Federal agency beginning with its quarterly submission pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) for the first quarter of 2020. If the appropriate Federal agency for an institution required to comply with § 1003.5(a)(1)(ii) changes during December 2020, the institution must identify its new appropriate Federal agency beginning with the annual submission of its 2020 data by March 1, 2021 pursuant to § 1003.5(a)(1)(i).
3.
Subsidiaries.
A financial institution is a subsidiary of a bank or savings association (for purposes of reporting HMDA data to the same agency as the parent) if the bank or savings association holds or controls an ownership interest in the institution that is greater than 50 percent.
4.
Retention.
A financial institution may satisfy the requirement under § 1003.5(a)(1)(i) that it retain a copy of its submitted annual loan/application register for three years by retaining a copy of the annual loan/application register in either electronic or paper form.
5.
Federal Taxpayer Identification Number.
Section 1003.5(a)(3) requires a financial institution to provide its Federal Taxpayer Identification Number with its data submission. If a financial institution obtains a new Federal Taxpayer Identification Number, it should provide the new number in its subsequent data submission. For example, if two financial institutions that previously reported HMDA data under this part merge and the surviving institution retained its Legal Entity Identifier but obtained a new Federal Taxpayer Identification Number, then the surviving institution should report the new Federal Taxpayer Identification Number with its HMDA data submission.

# 5(b) Disclosure Statement
1.
Business day.
For purposes of § 1003.5(b), a business day is any calendar day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or legal public holiday.
2.
Format of notice.
A financial institution may make the written notice required under § 1003.5(b)(2) available in paper or electronic form.
3.
Notice—suggested text.
A financial institution may use any text that meets the requirements of § 1003.5(b)(2). The following language is suggested but is not required:

# Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Notice
The HMDA data about our residential mortgage lending are available online for review. The data show geographic distribution of loans and applications; ethnicity, race, sex, age, and income of applicants and borrowers; and information about loan approvals and denials. These data are available online at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's Web site
(
www.consumerfinance.gov/hmda
).
HMDA data for many other financial institutions are also available at this Web site.
4.
Combined notice.
A financial institution may use the same notice to satisfy the requirements of both § 1003.5(b)(2) and § 1003.5(c).

# 5(c) Modified loan/application Register
1.
Format of notice.
A financial institution may make the written notice required under § 1003.5(c)(1) available in paper or electronic form.
2.
Notice—suggested text.
A financial institution may use any text that meets the requirements of § 1003.5(c)(1). The following language is suggested but is not required:

# Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Notice
The HMDA data about our residential mortgage lending are available online for review. The data show geographic distribution of loans and applications; ethnicity, race, sex, age, and income of applicants and borrowers; and information about loan approvals and denials. These data are available online at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's Web site
(
www.consumerfinance.gov/hmda
).
HMDA data for many other financial institutions are also available at this Web site.
3.
Combined notice.
A financial institution may use the same notice to satisfy the requirements of both § 1003.5(c) and § 1003.5(b)(2).

# 5(e) Posted Notice of Availability of Data
1.
Posted notice—suggested text.
A financial institution may post any text that meets the requirements of § 1003.5(e). The Bureau or other appropriate Federal agency for a financial institution may provide a notice that the institution can post to inform the public of the availability of its HMDA data, or an institution may create its own notice. The following language is suggested but is not required:

# Home Mortgage Disclosure Act Notice
The HMDA data about our residential mortgage lending are available online for review. The data show geographic distribution of loans and applications; ethnicity, race, sex, age, and income of applicants and borrowers; and information about loan approvals and denials. HMDA data for many other financial institutions are also available online. For more information, visit the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's Web site
(
www.consumerfinance.gov/hmda
).

# Section 1003.6—Enforcement

# 6(b) Bona Fide Errors
1.
Information from third parties.
Section 1003.6(b) provides that an error in compiling or recording data for a covered loan or application is not a violation of the Act or this part if the error was unintentional and occurred despite the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapted to avoid such an error. A financial institution that obtains the required data, such as property-location information, from third parties is responsible for ensuring that the information reported pursuant to § 1003.5 is correct. See comment 6(b)-2 concerning obtaining census tract information from a geocoding tool that the Bureau makes available on its Web site.
2.
Information from the Bureau.
Section 1003.6(b)(2) provides that an incorrect entry for census tract number is deemed a bona fide error, and is not a violation of the Act or this part, provided that the financial institution maintains procedures reasonably adapted to avoid an error. Obtaining the census tract numbers for covered loans and applications from a geocoding tool available on the Bureau's Web site that identifies the census tract of a property using property addresses entered by users is an example of a procedure reasonably adapted to avoid errors under § 1003.6(b)(2). Accordingly, a census tract error is not a violation of the Act or this part if the financial institution obtained the census tract number from the geocoding tool on the Bureau's Web site. However, a financial institution's failure to provide the correct census tract number for a covered loan or application on its loan/application register, as required by § 1003.4(a)(9)(ii)(C) or (e), because the geocoding tool on the Bureau's Web site did not provide a census tract number for the property address entered by the financial institution is not excused as a bona fide error. In addition, a census tract error caused by a financial institution entering an inaccurate property address into the geocoding tool on the Bureau's Web site is not excused as a bona fide error.
[80 FR 66317, 66339, Oct. 28, 2015, as amended at 82 FR 43136, 43145, Sept. 13, 2017; 82 FR 61146, Dec. 27, 2017; 84 FR 514, Jan. 31, 2019; 84 FR 57981, Oct. 29, 2019; 84 FR 69994, Dec. 20, 2019; 85 FR 28404, 28406, May 12, 2020; 85 FR 83410, Dec. 22, 2020; 86 FR 72819, Dec. 23, 2021; 87 FR 77981, Dec. 21, 2022; 87 FR 80434, Dec. 30, 2022; 88 FR 88222, Dec. 21, 2023; 89 FR 105430, Dec. 27, 2024]
Pt. 1004

# PART 1004—ALTERNATIVE MORTGAGE TRANSACTION PARITY (REGULATION D)
Sec.
1004.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
1004.2
Definitions.
1004.3
Preemption of State law.
1004.4
Requirements for alternative mortgage transactions.
Appendix A to Part 1004—Official Commentary on Regulation D

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 3802, 3803; 15 U.S.C. 1604, 1639b; Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.

# Source:
76 FR 44242, July 22, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1004.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This regulation, known as Regulation D, is issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to implement the Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act, 12 U.S.C. 3801
et seq.,
as amended by title X, Section 1083 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376). Section 1004.4 is issued pursuant to the Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act (as amended) and the Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
(b)
Purpose.
Consistent with the Alternative Mortgage Transaction Parity Act, the Truth in Lending Act, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the purpose of this regulation is to balance access to responsible credit and enhanced parity between State and federal housing creditors regarding the making, purchase, and enforcement of alternative
mortgage transactions with consumer protection and the interests of the States in regulating mortgage transactions generally.
(c)
Scope.
This regulation applies to an alternative mortgage transaction if the creditor received an application for that transaction on or after July 22, 2011. This regulation does not apply to a transaction if the creditor received the application for that transaction before July 22, 2011.
§ 1004.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
Alternative mortgage transaction
means a loan, credit sale, or account:
(1) That is secured by an interest in a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property, including an individual condominium unit, cooperative unit, mobile home, or trailer, if it is used as a residence;
(2) That is made primarily for personal, family, or household purposes; and
(3) In which the interest rate or finance charge may be adjusted or renegotiated.
Creditor
shall have the same meaning as in 12 CFR 226.2.
Housing creditor
means:
(1) A depository institution, as defined in section 501(a)(2) of the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act of 1980;
(2) A lender approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for participation in any mortgage insurance program under the National Housing Act;
(3) Any person who regularly makes loans, credit sales, or advances on an account secured by an interest in a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not the structure is attached to real property, including an individual condominium unit, cooperative unit, mobile home, or trailer, if it is used as a residence; and
(4) Any transferee of a party listed in paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
State
means any State of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
State law
means a State constitution, statute, or regulation or any provision thereof.
§ 1004.3
Preemption of State law.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3803, a State-chartered or -licensed housing creditor may make, purchase, and enforce alternative mortgage transactions in accordance with § 1004.4(a) through (c) of this part (as applicable), notwithstanding any provision of State law that restricts the ability of the housing creditor to adjust or renegotiate an interest rate or finance charge with respect to the transaction or to change the amount of interest or finance charges included in a regular periodic payment as a result of such an adjustment or renegotiation.
§ 1004.4
Requirements for alternative mortgage transactions.
(a)
Mortgages with adjustable rates or finance charges and home equity lines of credit.
A creditor that makes an alternative mortgage transaction with an adjustable rate or finance charge may only increase the interest rate or finance charge as follows:
(1) If the transaction is subject to 12 CFR 226.5b, the creditor must comply with 12 CFR 226.5b(f)(1).
(2) For all other transactions, the creditor must use either:
(i) An index to which changes in the interest rate are tied that is readily available to and verifiable by the borrower and beyond the control of the creditor; or
(ii) A formula or schedule identifying the amount that the interest rate or finance charge may increase and the times at which, or circumstances under which, a change may be made.
(b)
Renegotiable rates for renewable balloon-payment mortgages.
A creditor that makes an alternative mortgage transaction with payments based on an amortization period and a large final payment due after a shorter term may negotiate an increase or decrease in the interest rate when the transaction is renewed only if the creditor makes a written commitment to renew the transaction at specified intervals throughout the amortization period.
However, the creditor is not required to renew the transaction if:
(1) Any action or inaction by the consumer materially and adversely affects the creditor's security for the transaction or any right of the creditor in such security;
(2) There is a material failure by the consumer to meet the repayment terms of the transaction;
(3) There is fraud or a willful or knowing material misrepresentation by the consumer in connection with the transaction; or
(4) Federal law dealing with credit extended by a depository institution to its executive officers specifically requires that as a condition of the extension the credit shall become due and payable on demand, provided that the creditor includes such a provision in the initial agreement.
(c)
Requirements for high-cost and higher-priced mortgage loans.
(1) If an alternative mortgage transaction is subject to 12 CFR 226.32, the creditor must comply with 12 CFR 226.32 and 12 CFR 226.34.
(2) If an alternative mortgage transaction is subject to 12 CFR 226.35, the creditor must comply with 12 CFR 226.35.
(d)
Other applicable law.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, a housing creditor that is not making an alternative mortgage transaction pursuant to § 1004.3 of this part may make that transaction consistent with applicable State or Federal law other than this section.
(e)
Reductions in interest rate or finance charge.
Nothing in this section prohibits a creditor from decreasing the interest rate or finance charge on an alternative mortgage transaction.
Pt. 1004, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 1004—Official Commentary on Regulation D

# § 1004.1 Authority, Purpose, and Scope

# 1(c) Scope.
1.
Application received before July 22, 2011.
This part does not apply to a transaction if the creditor received the application for that transaction before July 22, 2011, even if the transaction was consummated or completed on or after July 22, 2011. Whether 12 U.S.C. 3803(c) preempts State law with respect to such a transaction depends on whether: (1) The transaction was an alternative mortgage transaction as defined by the version of 12 U.S.C. 3802(1) in effect at the time of application; and (2) the State housing creditor complied with applicable federal regulations issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in effect at the time of application.
2.
Subsequent modifications and other actions.
If applicable regulations under 12 U.S.C. 3803(c) (including this Part) preempted State law with respect to an alternative mortgage transaction at the time the application was received, the following actions with respect to that transaction are entitled to the same degree of preemption under such regulations:
i. The subsequent consummation, completion, purchase, or enforcement of the transaction by a housing creditor.
ii. The subsequent modification, renewal, or extension of the transaction. However, if such a transaction is satisfied and replaced by another transaction, the second transaction must independently meet the requirements for preemption in effect at the time the application for the second transaction was received.

# § 1004.2 Definitions

# 2(a) Alternative Mortgage Transaction
1.
Alternative mortgage transaction.
For purposes of this Part, an alternative mortgage transaction that meets the definition in § 1004.2(a) includes any consumer credit transaction that is secured by a mortgage, deed of trust, or other equivalent consensual security interest in a dwelling or in residential real property that includes a dwelling. The dwelling need not be the primary dwelling of the consumer. Home equity lines of credit and subordinate lien mortgages are alternative mortgage transactions for purposes of this part to the extent they meet the definition in § 1004.2(a).
2.
Examples of alternative mortgage transactions.
Examples of alternative mortgage transactions include:
i. Transactions in which the interest rate changes in accordance with fluctuations in an index.
ii. Transactions in which the interest rate or finance charge may be increased or decreased after a specified period of time or under specified circumstances.
iii. Balloon transactions in which payments are based on an amortization schedule and a large final payment is due after a shorter term, where the creditor makes a commitment to renew the transaction at specified intervals throughout the amortization period, but the interest rate may be renegotiated at renewal. For example, a fixed-rate mortgage loan with a 30-year amortization period but a balloon payment due five years after consummation is an alternative
mortgage transaction under § 1004.2(a) if the creditor commits to renew the mortgage at five-year intervals for the entire 30-year amortization period.
iv. Transactions in which the creditor and the consumer agree to share some or all of the appreciation in the value of the property (shared equity/shared appreciation).
However, this part preempts State law only to the extent provided in § 1004.3 and only to the extent that the requirements of § 1004.4(a) through (c) (as applicable) are met.
3.
Examples of transactions that are not alternative mortgage transactions.
The following are examples of transactions that are not alternative mortgage transactions:
i. Transactions with a fixed interest rate where one or more of the regular periodic payments may be applied solely to accrued interest and not to loan principal (an interest-only feature).
ii. Balloon transactions with a fixed interest rate where payments are based on an amortization schedule and a large final payment is due after a shorter term, where the creditor does not make a commitment to renew the transaction at specified intervals throughout the amortization period.
iii. Transactions with a fixed interest rate where one or more of the regular periodic payments may result in an increase in the principal balance (a negative amortization feature).

# 2(b) Creditor
1.
Creditor.
As defined in 12 CFR 226.2, “creditor” includes federally and State-chartered banks, thrifts, and credit unions, as well as non-depository institutions, such as State-licensed lenders. The Official Staff Commentary to 12 CFR 226.2 contains additional guidance on the definition of the term “creditor.”
See
12 CFR 226.2, Supp. I.

# § 1004.3 Preemption of State Law
1.
Scope of State laws.
Regardless of whether a State law applies solely to alternative mortgage transactions or applies to both alternative mortgage transactions and other mortgage or consumer credit transactions, that law is preempted by § 1004.3 only to the extent that it restricts the ability of a State-chartered or -licensed housing creditor to adjust or renegotiate an interest rate or finance charge with respect to an alternative mortgage transaction or to change the amount of interest or finance charges included in a regular periodic payment as a result of such an adjustment or renegotiation.
2.
Examples of State laws that are preempted.
The following are examples of State laws that are preempted by § 1004.3:
i. Restrictions on the adjustment or renegotiation of an interest rate or finance charge, including restrictions on the circumstances under which a rate or charge may be adjusted, the method by which a rate or charge may be adjusted, and the amount of the adjustment to the rate or charge. For example, if a provision of State law prohibits creditors from increasing an adjustable rate more than two percentage points or from increasing an adjustable rate more than once during a year, that provision is preempted by § 1004.3 with respect to alternative mortgage transactions that comply with § 1004.4(a) through (c), as applicable. Similarly, if a provision of State law prohibits housing creditors from renewing balloon transactions that meet the definition of an alternative mortgage transaction in § 1004.2(a) on different terms, that provision is preempted by § 1004.3 only to the extent that it restricts a state housing creditor's ability to adjust or renegotiate the interest rate or finance charge at renewal. See also comment 1004.3-3.i.
ii. Restrictions on the ability of a housing creditor to change the amount of interest or finance charges included in regular periodic payments as a result of the adjustment or renegotiation of an interest rate or finance charge. For example, if a provision of State law prohibits housing creditors from increasing payments or limits the amount of such increases with respect to both alternative mortgage transactions and other mortgage or consumer credit transactions, that provision is preempted by § 1004.3 to the extent that it restricts a housing creditor's ability to adjust payments as a result of the adjustment or renegotiation of an interest rate on an alternative mortgage transaction. Other restrictions on changes to payments are not preempted, including restrictions on transactions in which one or more of the regular periodic payments may result in an increase in the principal balance (a negative amortization feature) or may be applied solely to accrued interest and not to loan principal (an interest-only feature).
iii. Restrictions on the creditor and the consumer sharing some or all of the appreciation in the value of the property (shared equity/shared appreciation).
iv. Underwriting requirements that address the adjustment or renegotiation of interest rates or finance charges. For example, if a provision of State law requires housing creditors to underwrite based on the maximum contractual rate, that provision is preempted by § 1004.3 with respect to alternative mortgage transactions, regardless of whether the provision applies solely to alternative mortgage transactions or to both alternative mortgage transactions and other mortgage or consumer credit transactions.
3.
Examples of State laws that are not preempted.
The following are examples of State laws that are not preempted by § 1004.3 regardless of whether the provision applies solely to alternative mortgage transactions or to both alternative mortgage transactions
and other mortgage or consumer credit transactions:
i. Restrictions on prepayment penalties or late charges (including an increase in an interest rate or finance charge as a result of a late payment).
ii. Restrictions on transactions in which one or more of the regular periodic payments may result in an increase in the principal balance (a negative amortization feature) or may be applied solely to accrued interest and not to loan principal (an interest-only feature).
iii. Requirements that disclosures be provided.

# § 1004.4 Requirements for Alternative Mortgage Transactions

# 4(a) Mortgages With Adjustable or Renegotiable Rates or Finance Charges and Home Equity Lines of Credit
1.
Index values.
A creditor may use any measure of index values that meets the requirements in § 1004.4(a)(2)(i). For example, the index may be either single values as of a specific date or an average of values calculated over a specified period.
2.
Index beyond creditor's control.
A creditor may increase an adjustable interest rate pursuant to § 1004.4(a)(2)(i) only if the increase is based on an index that is beyond the creditor's control. For purposes of § 1004.4(a)(2)(i), an index is not beyond the creditor's control if the index is the creditor's own prime rate or cost of funds. A creditor is permitted, however, to use a published prime rate, such as the prime rate published in the
Wall Street Journal,
even if the creditor's own prime rate is one of several rates used to establish the published rate.
3.
Publicly available.
For purposes of § 1004.4(a)(2)(i), the index must be available to the public. A publicly available index need not be published in a newspaper, but it must be one the consumer can independently obtain (by telephone, for example) and use to verify the annual percentage rate applied to the alternative mortgage transaction.

# 4(c) Requirements for High-Cost and Higher-Priced Mortgage Loans
1.
Prepayment penalties.
If applicable, creditors must comply with 12 CFR 226.32, including 12 CFR 226.32(d)(6) and (d)(7) which provide limitations on prepayment penalties. Similarly, if applicable, creditors must comply with 12 CFR 226.35, including 12 CFR 226.35(b)(2), which also provides limitations on prepayment penalties. However, under § 1004.3, State laws regarding prepayment penalties are not preempted.
See
comment 1004.3-3.i. Accordingly, creditors must also comply with any State laws regarding prepayment penalties unless an independent basis for preemption exists, such as because the State law is inconsistent with the requirements of Regulation Z, 12 CFR part 226.
See
12 CFR 226.28.

# 4(d) Other Applicable Law
1.
Other applicable law.
Section 1004.4(d) permits state housing creditors that do not seek preemption under § 1004.3 and federal housing creditors to make alternative mortgage transactions consistent with applicable State or federal law other than § 1004.4(a) through (c). However, § 1004.4(d) does not exempt those housing creditors from complying with the provisions of federal law that are incorporated by reference in § 1004.4 and are otherwise applicable to the creditor. Specifically, nothing in § 1004.4(d) exempts a housing creditor from complying with 12 CFR 226.5b, 226.32, 226.34, or 226.35.
Pt. 1005

# PART 1005—ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E)

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1005.1
Authority and purpose.
1005.2
Definitions.
1005.3
Coverage.
1005.4
General disclosure requirements; jointly offered services.
1005.5
Issuance of access devices.
1005.6
Liability of consumer for unauthorized transfers.
1005.7
Initial disclosures.
1005.8
Change in terms notice; error resolution notice.
1005.9
Receipts at electronic terminals; periodic statements.
1005.10
Preauthorized transfers.
1005.11
Procedures for resolving errors.
1005.12
Relation to other laws.
1005.13
Administrative enforcement; record retention.
1005.14
Electronic fund transfer service provider not holding consumer's account.
1005.15
Electronic fund transfer of government benefits.
1005.16
Disclosures at automated teller machines.
1005.17
Requirements for overdraft services.
1005.18
Requirements for financial institutions offering prepaid accounts.
1005.19
Internet posting of prepaid account agreements.
1005.20
Requirements for gift cards and gift certificates.

# Subpart B—Requirements for Remittance Transfers
1005.30
Remittance transfer definitions.
1005.31
Disclosures.
1005.32
Estimates.
1005.33
Procedures for resolving errors.
1005.34
Procedures for cancellation and refund of remittance transfers.
1005.35
Acts of agents.
1005.36
Transfers scheduled before the date of transfer.
Appendix A to Part 1005—Model Disclosure Clauses and Forms
Appendix B to Part 1005 [Reserved]
Appendix C to Part 1005—Issuance of Official Interpretations
Supplement I to Part 1005—Official Interpretations

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 5512, 5581; 15 U.S.C. 1693b. Subpart B is also issued under 12 U.S.C. 5601 and 15 U.S.C. 1693o-1.

# Source:
76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1005.1
Authority and purpose.
(a)
Authority.
The regulation in this part, known as Regulation E, is issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Bureau) pursuant to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 1693
et seq.
). The information-collection requirements have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and have been assigned OMB No. 3170-0014.
(b)
Purpose.
This part carries out the purposes of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, which establishes the basic rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of consumers who use electronic fund transfer and remittance transfer services and of financial institutions or other persons that offer these services. The primary objective of the act and this part is the protection of individual consumers engaging in electronic fund transfers and remittance transfers.
[76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 6285, Feb. 7, 2012]
§ 1005.2
Definitions.
Except as otherwise provided in subpart B, for purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)(1) “Access device” means a card, code, or other means of access to a consumer's account, or any combination thereof, that may be used by the consumer to initiate electronic fund transfers.
(2) An access device becomes an “accepted access device” when the consumer:
(i) Requests and receives, or signs, or uses (or authorizes another to use) the access device to transfer money between accounts or to obtain money, property, or services;
(ii) Requests validation of an access device issued on an unsolicited basis; or
(iii) Receives an access device in renewal of, or in substitution for, an accepted access device from either the financial institution that initially issued the device or a successor.
(b)(1) “Account” means a demand deposit (checking), savings, or other consumer asset account (other than an occasional or incidental credit balance in a credit plan) held directly or indirectly by a financial institution and established primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
(2) The term does not include an account held by a financial institution under a bona fide trust agreement.
(3) The term includes a prepaid account.
(i) “Prepaid account” means:
(A) A “payroll card account,” which is an account that is directly or indirectly established through an employer and to which electronic fund transfers of the consumer's wages, salary, or other employee compensation (such as commissions) are made on a recurring basis, whether the account is operated or managed by the employer, a third-party payroll processor, a depository institution, or any other person; or
(B) A “government benefit account,” as defined in § 1005.15(a)(2); or
(C) An account that is marketed or labeled as “prepaid” and that is redeemable upon presentation at multiple, unaffiliated merchants for goods or services or usable at automated teller machines; or
(D) An account:
(
1
) That is issued on a prepaid basis in a specified amount or not issued on a prepaid basis but capable of being loaded with funds thereafter,
(
2
) Whose primary function is to conduct transactions with multiple, unaffiliated merchants for goods or services, or at automated teller machines, or to conduct person-to-person transfers, and
(
3
) That is not a checking account, share draft account, or negotiable order of withdrawal account.
(ii) For purposes of paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(C) and (D) of this section, the term “prepaid account” does not include:
(A) An account that is loaded only with funds from a health savings account, flexible spending arrangement, medical savings account, health reimbursement arrangement, dependent care assistance program, or transit or parking reimbursement arrangement;
(B) An account that is directly or indirectly established through a third party and loaded only with qualified disaster relief payments;
(C) The person-to-person functionality of an account established by or through the United States government whose primary function is to conduct closed-loop transactions on U.S. military installations or vessels, or similar government facilities;
(D)(
1
) A gift certificate as defined in § 1005.20(a)(1) and (b);
(
2
) A store gift card as defined in § 1005.20(a)(2) and (b);
(
3
) A loyalty, award, or promotional gift card as defined in § 1005.20(a)(4), or that satisfies the criteria in § 1005.20(a)(4)(i) and (ii) and is excluded from § 1005.20 pursuant to § 1005.20(b)(4); or
(
4
) A general-use prepaid card as defined in § 1005.20(a)(3) and (b) that is both marketed and labeled as a gift card or gift certificate; or
(E) An account established for distributing needs-tested benefits in a program established under state or local law or administered by a state or local agency, as set forth in § 1005.15(a)(2).
(c) “Act” means the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (Title IX of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. 1693
et seq.
).
(d) “Business day” means any day on which the offices of the consumer's financial institution are open to the public for carrying on substantially all business functions.
(e) “Consumer” means a natural person.
(f) “Credit” means the right granted by a financial institution to a consumer to defer payment of debt, incur debt and defer its payment, or purchase property or services and defer payment therefor.
(g) “Electronic fund transfer” is defined in § 1005.3.
(h) “Electronic terminal” means an electronic device, other than a telephone operated by a consumer, through which a consumer may initiate an electronic fund transfer. The term includes, but is not limited to, point-of-sale terminals, automated teller machines (ATMs), and cash dispensing machines.
(i) “Financial institution” means a bank, savings association, credit union, or any other person that directly or indirectly holds an account belonging to a consumer, or that issues an access device and agrees with a consumer to provide electronic fund transfer services, other than a person excluded from coverage of this part by section 1029 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Public Law 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376.
(j) “Person” means a natural person or an organization, including a corporation, government agency, estate, trust, partnership, proprietorship, cooperative, or association.
(k) “Preauthorized electronic fund transfer” means an electronic fund transfer authorized in advance to recur at substantially regular intervals.
(l) “State” means any state, territory, or possession of the United States; the District of Columbia; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; or any political subdivision of the thereof in this paragraph (l).
(m) “Unauthorized electronic fund transfer” means an electronic fund transfer from a consumer's account initiated by a person other than the consumer without actual authority to initiate the transfer and from which the consumer receives no benefit. The term does not include an electronic fund transfer initiated:
(1) By a person who was furnished the access device to the consumer's account by the consumer, unless the consumer has notified the financial institution that transfers by that person are no longer authorized;
(2) With fraudulent intent by the consumer or any person acting in concert with the consumer; or
(3) By the financial institution or its employee.
[76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 6285, Feb. 7, 2012; 81 FR 84325, Nov. 22, 2016; 83 FR 6417, Feb. 13, 2018]
§ 1005.3
Coverage.
(a)
General.
This part applies to any electronic fund transfer that authorizes a financial institution to debit or credit a consumer's account. Generally, this part applies to financial institutions. For purposes of §§ 1005.3(b)(2) and (3), 1005.10(b), (d), and (e), 1005.13, and 1005.20, this part applies to any person, other than a person excluded from coverage of this part by section 1029 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010, Title X of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376. The requirements of subpart B apply to remittance transfer providers.
(b)
Electronic fund transfer
—(1)
Definition.
The term “electronic fund transfer” means any transfer of funds that is initiated through an electronic terminal, telephone, computer, or magnetic tape for the purpose of ordering, instructing, or authorizing a financial institution to debit or credit a consumer's account. The term includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Point-of-sale transfers;
(ii) Automated teller machine transfers;
(iii) Direct deposits or withdrawals of funds;
(iv) Transfers initiated by telephone; and
(v) Transfers resulting from debit card transactions, whether or not initiated through an electronic terminal.
(2)
Electronic fund transfer using information from a check.
(i) This part applies where a check, draft, or similar paper instrument is used as a source of information to initiate a one-time electronic fund transfer from a consumer's account. The consumer must authorize the transfer.
(ii) The person initiating an electronic fund transfer using the consumer's check as a source of information for the transfer must provide a notice that the transaction will or may be processed as an electronic fund transfer, and obtain a consumer's authorization for each transfer. A consumer authorizes a one-time electronic fund transfer (in providing a check to a merchant or other payee for the MICR encoding, that is, the routing number of the financial institution, the consumer's account number and the serial number) when the consumer receives notice and goes forward with the underlying transaction. For point-of-sale transfers, the notice must be posted in a prominent and conspicuous location, and a copy thereof, or a substantially similar notice, must be provided to the consumer at the time of the transaction.
(iii) A person may provide notices that are substantially similar to those set forth in appendix A-6 to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (b)(2).
(3)
Collection of returned item fees via electronic fund transfer
—(i)
General.
The person initiating an electronic fund transfer to collect a fee for the return of an electronic fund transfer or a check that is unpaid, including due to insufficient or uncollected funds in the consumer's account, must obtain the consumer's authorization for each transfer. A consumer authorizes a one-time electronic fund transfer from his or her account to pay the fee for the returned item or transfer if the person collecting the fee provides notice to the consumer stating that the person may electronically collect the fee, and the consumer goes forward with the underlying transaction. The notice must state that the fee will be collected by means of an electronic fund transfer from the consumer's account if the payment is returned unpaid and must disclose the dollar amount of the fee. If the fee may vary due to the amount of the transaction or due to other factors, then, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, the person collecting the fee may disclose, in place of the dollar amount of the fee, an explanation of how the fee will be determined.
(ii)
Point-of-sale transactions.
If a fee for an electronic fund transfer or check returned unpaid may be collected electronically in connection with a point-
of-sale transaction, the person initiating an electronic fund transfer to collect the fee must post the notice described in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section in a prominent and conspicuous location. The person also must either provide the consumer with a copy of the posted notice (or a substantially similar notice) at the time of the transaction, or mail the copy (or a substantially similar notice) to the consumer's address as soon as reasonably practicable after the person initiates the electronic fund transfer to collect the fee. If the amount of the fee may vary due to the amount of the transaction or due to other factors, the posted notice may explain how the fee will be determined, but the notice provided to the consumer must state the dollar amount of the fee if the amount can be calculated at the time the notice is provided or mailed to the consumer.
(c)
Exclusions from coverage.
The term “electronic fund transfer” does not include:
(1)
Checks.
Any transfer of funds originated by check, draft, or similar paper instrument; or any payment made by check, draft, or similar paper instrument at an electronic terminal.
(2)
Check guarantee or authorization.
Any transfer of funds that guarantees payment or authorizes acceptance of a check, draft, or similar paper instrument but that does not directly result in a debit or credit to a consumer's account.
(3)
Wire or other similar transfers.
Any transfer of funds through Fedwire or through a similar wire transfer system that is used primarily for transfers between financial institutions or between businesses.
(4)
Securities and commodities transfers.
Any transfer of funds the primary purpose of which is the purchase or sale of a security or commodity, if the security or commodity is:
(i) Regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
(ii) Purchased or sold through a broker-dealer regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission or through a futures commission merchant regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; or
(iii) Held in book-entry form by a Federal Reserve Bank or Federal agency.
(5)
Automatic transfers by account-holding institution.
Any transfer of funds under an agreement between a consumer and a financial institution which provides that the institution will initiate individual transfers without a specific request from the consumer:
(i) Between a consumer's accounts within the financial institution;
(ii) From a consumer's account to an account of a member of the consumer's family held in the same financial institution; or
(iii) Between a consumer's account and an account of the financial institution, except that these transfers remain subject to § 1005.10(e) regarding compulsory use and sections 916 and 917 of the Act regarding civil and criminal liability.
(6)
Telephone-initiated transfers.
Any transfer of funds that:
(i) Is initiated by a telephone communication between a consumer and a financial institution making the transfer; and
(ii) Does not take place under a telephone bill-payment or other written plan in which periodic or recurring transfers are contemplated.
(7)
Small institutions.
Any preauthorized transfer to or from an account if the assets of the account-holding financial institution were $100 million or less on the preceding December 31. If assets of the account-holding institution subsequently exceed $100 million, the institution's exemption for preauthorized transfers terminates one year from the end of the calendar year in which the assets exceed $100 million. Preauthorized transfers exempt under this paragraph (c)(7) remain subject to § 1005.10(e) regarding compulsory use and sections 916 and 917 of the Act regarding civil and criminal liability.
[76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 77 FR 6285, Feb. 7, 2012]
§ 1005.4
General disclosure requirements; jointly offered services.
(a)(1)
Form of disclosures.
Disclosures required under this part shall be clear and readily understandable, in writing, and in a form the consumer may keep,
except as otherwise provided in this part. The disclosures required by this part may be provided to the consumer in electronic form, subject to compliance with the consumer-consent and other applicable provisions of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
). A financial institution may use commonly accepted or readily understandable abbreviations in complying with the disclosure requirements of this part.
(2)
Foreign language disclosures.
Disclosures required under this part may be made in a language other than English, provided that the disclosures are made available in English upon the consumer's request.
(b)
Additional information; disclosures required by other laws.
A financial institution may include additional information and may combine disclosures required by other laws (such as the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
) or the Truth in Savings Act (12 U.S.C. 4301
et seq.
) with the disclosures required by this part.
(c)
Multiple accounts and account holders
—(1)
Multiple accounts.
A financial institution may combine the required disclosures into a single statement for a consumer who holds more than one account at the institution.
(2)
Multiple account holders.
For joint accounts held by two or more consumers, a financial institution need provide only one set of the required disclosures and may provide them to any of the account holders.
(d)
Services offered jointly.
Financial institutions that provide electronic fund transfer services jointly may contract among themselves to comply with the requirements that this part imposes on any or all of them. An institution need make only the disclosures required by §§ 1005.7 and 1005.8 that are within its knowledge and within the purview of its relationship with the consumer for whom it holds an account.
§ 1005.5
Issuance of access devices.
(a)
Solicited issuance.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a financial institution may issue an access device to a consumer only:
(1) In response to an oral or written request for the device; or
(2) As a renewal of, or in substitution for, an accepted access device whether issued by the institution or a successor.
(b)
Unsolicited issuance.
A financial institution may distribute an access device to a consumer on an unsolicited basis if the access device is:
(1) Not validated, meaning that the institution has not yet performed all the procedures that would enable a consumer to initiate an electronic fund transfer using the access device;
(2) Accompanied by a clear explanation that the access device is not validated and how the consumer may dispose of it if validation is not desired;
(3) Accompanied by the disclosures required by § 1005.7, of the consumer's rights and liabilities that will apply if the access device is validated; and
(4) Validated only in response to the consumer's oral or written request for validation, after the institution has verified the consumer's identity by a reasonable means.
§ 1005.6
Liability of consumer for unauthorized transfers.
(a)
Conditions for liability.
A consumer may be held liable, within the limitations described in paragraph (b) of this section, for an unauthorized electronic fund transfer involving the consumer's account only if the financial institution has provided the disclosures required by § 1005.7(b)(1), (2), and (3). If the unauthorized transfer involved an access device, it must be an accepted access device and the financial institution must have provided a means to identify the consumer to whom it was issued.
(b)
Limitations on amount of liability.
A consumer's liability for an unauthorized electronic fund transfer or a series of related unauthorized transfers shall be determined as follows:
(1)
Timely notice given.
If the consumer notifies the financial institution within two business days after learning of the loss or theft of the access device, the consumer's liability shall not exceed the lesser of $50 or the amount of unauthorized transfers that occur before notice to the financial institution.
(2)
Timely notice not given.
If the consumer fails to notify the financial institution within two business days after learning of the loss or theft of the access device, the consumer's liability shall not exceed the lesser of $500 or the sum of:
(i) $50 or the amount of unauthorized transfers that occur within the two business days, whichever is less; and
(ii) The amount of unauthorized transfers that occur after the close of two business days and before notice to the institution, provided the institution establishes that these transfers would not have occurred had the consumer notified the institution within that two-day period.
(3)
Periodic statement; timely notice not given.
A consumer must report an unauthorized electronic fund transfer that appears on a periodic statement within 60 days of the financial institution's transmittal of the statement to avoid liability for subsequent transfers. If the consumer fails to do so, the consumer's liability shall not exceed the amount of the unauthorized transfers that occur after the close of the 60 days and before notice to the institution, and that the institution establishes would not have occurred had the consumer notified the institution within the 60-day period. When an access device is involved in the unauthorized transfer, the consumer may be liable for other amounts set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, as applicable.
(4)
Extension of time limits.
If the consumer's delay in notifying the financial institution was due to extenuating circumstances, the institution shall extend the times specified above to a reasonable period.
(5)
Notice to financial institution.
(i) Notice to a financial institution is given when a consumer takes steps reasonably necessary to provide the institution with the pertinent information, whether or not a particular employee or agent of the institution actually receives the information.
(ii) The consumer may notify the institution in person, by telephone, or in writing.
(iii) Written notice is considered given at the time the consumer mails the notice or delivers it for transmission to the institution by any other usual means. Notice may be considered constructively given when the institution becomes aware of circumstances leading to the reasonable belief that an unauthorized transfer to or from the consumer's account has been or may be made.
(6)
Liability under state law or agreement.
If state law or an agreement between the consumer and the financial institution imposes less liability than is provided by this section, the consumer's liability shall not exceed the amount imposed under the state law or agreement.
§ 1005.7
Initial disclosures.
(a)
Timing of disclosures.
A financial institution shall make the disclosures required by this section at the time a consumer contracts for an electronic fund transfer service or before the first electronic fund transfer is made involving the consumer's account.
(b)
Content of disclosures.
A financial institution shall provide the following disclosures, as applicable:
(1)
Liability of consumer.
A summary of the consumer's liability, under § 1005.6 or under state or other applicable law or agreement, for unauthorized electronic fund transfers.
(2)
Telephone number and address.
The telephone number and address of the person or office to be notified when the consumer believes that an unauthorized electronic fund transfer has been or may be made.
(3)
Business days.
The financial institution's business days.
(4)
Types of transfers; limitations.
The type of electronic fund transfers that the consumer may make and any limitations on the frequency and dollar amount of transfers. Details of the limitations need not be disclosed if confidentiality is essential to maintain the security of the electronic fund transfer system.
(5)
Fees.
Any fees imposed by the financial institution for electronic fund transfers or for the right to make transfers.
(6)
Documentation.
A summary of the consumer's right to receipts and periodic statements, as provided in § 1005.9 of this part, and notices regarding
preauthorized transfers as provided in § 1005.10(a) and (d).
(7)
Stop payment.
A summary of the consumer's right to stop payment of a preauthorized electronic fund transfer and the procedure for placing a stop-payment order, as provided in § 1005.10(c).
(8)
Liability of institution.
A summary of the financial institution's liability to the consumer under section 910 of the Act for failure to make or to stop certain transfers.
(9)
Confidentiality.
The circumstances under which, in the ordinary course of business, the financial institution may provide information concerning the consumer's account to third parties.
(10)
Error resolution.
A notice that is substantially similar to Model Form A-3 as set out in appendix A of this part concerning error resolution.
(11)
ATM fees.
A notice that a fee may be imposed by an automated teller machine operator as defined in § 1005.16(a), when the consumer initiates an electronic fund transfer or makes a balance inquiry, and by any network used to complete the transaction.
(c)
Addition of electronic fund transfer services.
If an electronic fund transfer service is added to a consumer's account and is subject to terms and conditions different from those described in the initial disclosures, disclosures for the new service are required.
[76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 70320, Oct. 12, 2016]
§ 1005.8
Change in terms notice; error resolution notice.
(a)
Change in terms notice
—(1)
Prior notice required.
A financial institution shall mail or deliver a written notice to the consumer, at least 21 days before the effective date, of any change in a term or condition required to be disclosed under § 1005.7(b) of this part if the change would result in:
(i) Increased fees for the consumer;
(ii) Increased liability for the consumer;
(iii) Fewer types of available electronic fund transfers; or
(iv) Stricter limitations on the frequency or dollar amount of transfers.
(2)
Prior notice exception.
A financial institution need not give prior notice if an immediate change in terms or conditions is necessary to maintain or restore the security of an account or an electronic fund transfer system. If the institution makes such a change permanent and disclosure would not jeopardize the security of the account or system, the institution shall notify the consumer in writing on or with the next regularly scheduled periodic statement or within 30 days of making the change permanent.
(b)
Error resolution notice.
For accounts to or from which electronic fund transfers can be made, a financial institution shall mail or deliver to the consumer, at least once each calendar year, an error resolution notice substantially similar to the model form set forth in appendix A of this part (Model Form A-3). Alternatively, an institution may include an abbreviated notice substantially similar to the model form error resolution notice set forth in appendix A of this part (Model Form A-3), on or with each periodic statement required by § 1005.9(b).
§ 1005.9
Receipts at electronic terminals; periodic statements.
(a)
Receipts at electronic terminals—General.
Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, a financial institution shall make a receipt available to a consumer at the time the consumer initiates an electronic fund transfer at an electronic terminal. The receipt shall set forth the following information, as applicable:
(1)
Amount.
The amount of the transfer. A transaction fee may be included in this amount, provided the amount of the fee is disclosed on the receipt and displayed on or at the terminal.
(2)
Date.
The date the consumer initiates the transfer.
(3)
Type.
The type of transfer and the type of the consumer's account(s) to or from which funds are transferred. The type of account may be omitted if the access device used is able to access only one account at that terminal.
(4)
Identification.
A number or code that identifies the consumer's account or accounts, or the access device used to initiate the transfer. The number or code need not exceed four digits or letters to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (a)(4).
(5)
Terminal location.
The location of the terminal where the transfer is initiated, or an identification such as a code or terminal number. Except in limited circumstances where all terminals are located in the same city or state, if the location is disclosed, it shall include the city and state or foreign country and one of the following:
(i) The street address; or
(ii) A generally accepted name for the specific location; or
(iii) The name of the owner or operator of the terminal if other than the account-holding institution.
(6)
Third party transfer.
The name of any third party to or from whom funds are transferred.
(b)
Periodic statements.
For an account to or from which electronic fund transfers can be made, a financial institution shall send a periodic statement for each monthly cycle in which an electronic fund transfer has occurred; and shall send a periodic statement at least quarterly if no transfer has occurred. The statement shall set forth the following information, as applicable:
(1)
Transaction information.
For each electronic fund transfer occurring during the cycle:
(i) The amount of the transfer;
(ii) The date the transfer was credited or debited to the consumer's account;
(iii) The type of transfer and type of account to or from which funds were transferred;
(iv) For a transfer initiated by the consumer at an electronic terminal (except for a deposit of cash or a check, draft, or similar paper instrument), the terminal location described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section; and
(v) The name of any third party to or from whom funds were transferred.
(2)
Account number.
The number of the account.
(3)
Fees.
The amount of any fees assessed against the account during the statement period for electronic fund transfers, the right to make transfers, or account maintenance.
(4)
Account balances.
The balance in the account at the beginning and at the close of the statement period.
(5)
Address and telephone number for inquiries.
The address and telephone number to be used for inquiries or notice of errors, preceded by “Direct inquiries to” or similar language. The address and telephone number provided on an error resolution notice under § 1005.8(b) given on or with the statement satisfies this requirement.
(6)
Telephone number for preauthorized transfers.
A telephone number the consumer may call to ascertain whether preauthorized transfers to the consumer's account have occurred, if the financial institution uses the telephone-notice option under § 1005.10(a)(1)(iii).
(c)
Exceptions to the periodic statement requirement for certain accounts
—(1)
Preauthorized transfers to accounts.
For accounts that may be accessed only by preauthorized transfers to the account the following rules apply:
(i)
Passbook accounts.
For passbook accounts, the financial institution need not provide a periodic statement if the institution updates the passbook upon presentation or enters on a separate document the amount and date of each electronic fund transfer since the passbook was last presented.
(ii)
Other accounts.
For accounts other than passbook accounts, the financial institution must send a periodic statement at least quarterly.
(2)
Intra-institutional transfers.
For an electronic fund transfer initiated by the consumer between two accounts of the consumer in the same institution, documenting the transfer on a periodic statement for one of the two accounts satisfies the periodic statement requirement.
(3)
Relationship between paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
An account that is accessed by preauthorized transfers to the account described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and by intra-institutional transfers described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, but by no other type of electronic fund transfers, qualifies for the exceptions provided by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(d)
Documentation for foreign-initiated transfers.
The failure by a financial institution to provide a terminal receipt for an electronic fund transfer or to document the transfer on a periodic statement does not violate this part if:
(1) The transfer is not initiated within a state; and
(2) The financial institution treats an inquiry for clarification or documentation as a notice of error in accordance with § 1005.11.
(e)
Exception for receipts in small-value transfers.
A financial institution is not subject to the requirement to make available a receipt under paragraph (a) of this section if the amount of the transfer is $15 or less.
§ 1005.10
Preauthorized transfers.
(a)
Preauthorized transfers to consumer's account
—(1)
Notice by financial institution.
When a person initiates preauthorized electronic fund transfers to a consumer's account at least once every 60 days, the account-holding financial institution shall provide notice to the consumer by:
(i)
Positive notice.
Providing oral or written notice of the transfer within two business days after the transfer occurs; or
(ii)
Negative notice.
Providing oral or written notice, within two business days after the date on which the transfer was scheduled to occur, that the transfer did not occur; or
(iii)
Readily-available telephone line.
Providing a readily available telephone line that the consumer may call to determine whether the transfer occurred and disclosing the telephone number on the initial disclosure of account terms and on each periodic statement.
(2)
Notice by payor.
A financial institution need not provide notice of a transfer if the payor gives the consumer positive notice that the transfer has been initiated.
(3)
Crediting.
A financial institution that receives a preauthorized transfer of the type described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall credit the amount of the transfer as of the date the funds for the transfer are received.
(b)
Written authorization for preauthorized transfers from consumer's account.
Preauthorized electronic fund transfers from a consumer's account may be authorized only by a writing signed or similarly authenticated by the consumer. The person that obtains the authorization shall provide a copy to the consumer.
(c)
Consumer's right to stop payment
—(1)
Notice.
A consumer may stop payment of a preauthorized electronic fund transfer from the consumer's account by notifying the financial institution orally or in writing at least three business days before the scheduled date of the transfer.
(2)
Written confirmation.
The financial institution may require the consumer to give written confirmation of a stop-payment order within 14 days of an oral notification. An institution that requires written confirmation shall inform the consumer of the requirement and provide the address where confirmation must be sent when the consumer gives the oral notification. An oral stop-payment order ceases to be binding after 14 days if the consumer fails to provide the required written confirmation.
(d)
Notice of transfers varying in amount
—(1)
Notice.
When a preauthorized electronic fund transfer from the consumer's account will vary in amount from the previous transfer under the same authorization or from the preauthorized amount, the designated payee or the financial institution shall send the consumer written notice of the amount and date of the transfer at least 10 days before the scheduled date of transfer.
(2)
Range.
The designated payee or the institution shall inform the consumer of the right to receive notice of all varying transfers, but may give the consumer the option of receiving notice only when a transfer falls outside a specified range of amounts or only when a transfer differs from the most recent transfer by more than an agreed-upon amount.
(e)
Compulsory use
—(1)
Credit.
No financial institution or other person may condition an extension of credit to a consumer on the consumer's repayment by preauthorized electronic fund transfers, except for credit extended under an overdraft credit plan or extended to maintain a specified minimum balance in the consumer's account. This exception does not apply to a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61.
(2)
Employment or government benefit.
No financial institution or other person may require a consumer to establish an account for receipt of electronic
fund transfers with a particular institution as a condition of employment or receipt of a government benefit.
[76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 84326, Nov. 22, 2016]
§ 1005.10, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 106836, Dec. 30, 2024, § 1005.10 was amended by revising paragraph (e)(1), effective Oct. 1, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1005.10
Preauthorized transfers.
(e)
Compulsory use
—(1)
Credit.
No financial institution or other person may condition an extension of credit to a consumer on the consumer's repayment by preauthorized electronic fund transfers, except for credit extended under an overdraft credit plan or extended to maintain a specified minimum balance in the consumer's account. This exception does not apply to a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61. This exception also does not apply to covered overdraft credit extended by very large financial institutions as those terms are defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.62.
§ 1005.11
Procedures for resolving errors.
(a)
Definition of error
—(1)
Types of transfers or inquiries covered.
The term “error” means:
(i) An unauthorized electronic fund transfer;
(ii) An incorrect electronic fund transfer to or from the consumer's account;
(iii) The omission of an electronic fund transfer from a periodic statement;
(iv) A computational or bookkeeping error made by the financial institution relating to an electronic fund transfer;
(v) The consumer's receipt of an incorrect amount of money from an electronic terminal;
(vi) An electronic fund transfer not identified in accordance with § 1005.9 or § 1005.10(a); or
(vii) The consumer's request for documentation required by § 1005.9 or § 1005.10(a) or for additional information or clarification concerning an electronic fund transfer, including a request the consumer makes to determine whether an error exists under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(2)
Types of inquiries not covered.
The term “error” does not include:
(i) A routine inquiry about the consumer's account balance;
(ii) A request for information for tax or other recordkeeping purposes; or
(iii) A request for duplicate copies of documentation.
(b)
Notice of error from consumer
—(1)
Timing; contents.
A financial institution shall comply with the requirements of this section with respect to any oral or written notice of error from the consumer that:
(i) Is received by the institution no later than 60 days after the institution sends the periodic statement or provides the passbook documentation, required by § 1005.9, on which the alleged error is first reflected;
(ii) Enables the institution to identify the consumer's name and account number; and
(iii) Indicates why the consumer believes an error exists and includes to the extent possible the type, date, and amount of the error, except for requests described in paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section.
(2)
Written confirmation.
A financial institution may require the consumer to give written confirmation of an error within 10 business days of an oral notice. An institution that requires written confirmation shall inform the consumer of the requirement and provide the address where confirmation must be sent when the consumer gives the oral notification.
(3)
Request for documentation or clarifications.
When a notice of error is based on documentation or clarification that the consumer requested under paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section, the consumer's notice of error is timely if received by the financial institution no later than 60 days after the institution sends the information requested.
(c)
Time limits and extent of investigation
—(1)
Ten-day period.
A financial institution shall investigate promptly and, except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (c), shall determine whether an error occurred within 10 business days of receiving a notice of error. The institution shall report the
results to the consumer within three business days after completing its investigation. The institution shall correct the error within one business day after determining that an error occurred.
(2)
Forty-five day period.
If the financial institution is unable to complete its investigation within 10 business days, the institution may take up to 45 days from receipt of a notice of error to investigate and determine whether an error occurred, provided the institution does the following:
(i) Provisionally credits the consumer's account in the amount of the alleged error (including interest where applicable) within 10 business days of receiving the error notice. If the financial institution has a reasonable basis for believing that an unauthorized electronic fund transfer has occurred and the institution has satisfied the requirements of § 1005.6(a), the institution may withhold a maximum of $50 from the amount credited. An institution need not provisionally credit the consumer's account if:
(A) The institution requires but does not receive written confirmation within 10 business days of an oral notice of error; or
(B) The alleged error involves an account that is subject to Regulation T of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Securities Credit by Brokers and Dealers, 12 CFR part 220).
(ii) Informs the consumer, within two business days after the provisional crediting, of the amount and date of the provisional crediting and gives the consumer full use of the funds during the investigation;
(iii) Corrects the error, if any, within one business day after determining that an error occurred; and
(iv) Reports the results to the consumer within three business days after completing its investigation (including, if applicable, notice that a provisional credit has been made final).
(3)
Extension of time periods.
The time periods in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section are extended as follows:
(i) The applicable time is 20 business days in place of 10 business days under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section if the notice of error involves an electronic fund transfer to or from the account within 30 days after the first deposit to the account was made.
(ii) The applicable time is 90 days in place of 45 days under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, for completing an investigation, if a notice of error involves an electronic fund transfer that:
(A) Was not initiated within a state;
(B) Resulted from a point-of-sale debit card transaction; or
(C) Occurred within 30 days after the first deposit to the account was made.
(4)
Investigation.
With the exception of transfers covered by § 1005.14 of this part, a financial institution's review of its own records regarding an alleged error satisfies the requirements of this section if:
(i) The alleged error concerns a transfer to or from a third party; and
(ii) There is no agreement between the institution and the third party for the type of electronic fund transfer involved.
(d)
Procedures if financial institution determines no error or different error occurred.
In addition to following the procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the financial institution shall follow the procedures set forth in this paragraph (d) if it determines that no error occurred or that an error occurred in a manner or amount different from that described by the consumer:
(1)
Written explanation.
The institution's report of the results of its investigation shall include a written explanation of the institution's findings and shall note the consumer's right to request the documents that the institution relied on in making its determination. Upon request, the institution shall promptly provide copies of the documents.
(2)
Debiting provisional credit.
Upon debiting a provisionally credited amount, the financial institution shall:
(i) Notify the consumer of the date and amount of the debiting;
(ii) Notify the consumer that the institution will honor checks, drafts, or similar instruments payable to third parties and preauthorized transfers from the consumer's account (without charge to the consumer as a result of an overdraft) for five business days after the notification. The institution shall honor items as specified in the
notice, but need honor only items that it would have paid if the provisionally credited funds had not been debited.
(e)
Reassertion of error.
A financial institution that has fully complied with the error resolution requirements has no further responsibilities under this section should the consumer later reassert the same error, except in the case of an error asserted by the consumer following receipt of information provided under paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section.
[76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 84326, Nov. 22, 2016; 83 FR 6417, Feb. 13, 2018]
§ 1005.12
Relation to other laws.
(a)
Relation to Truth in Lending.
(1) The Electronic Fund Transfer Act and this part govern:
(i) The addition to an accepted credit card, as defined in Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.12, comment 12-2), of the capability to initiate electronic fund transfers;
(ii) The issuance of an access device (other than an access device for a prepaid account) that permits credit extensions (under a preexisting agreement between a consumer and a financial institution) only when the consumer's account is overdrawn or to maintain a specified minimum balance in the consumer's account, or under an overdraft service, as defined in § 1005.17(a) of this part;
(iii) The addition of an overdraft service, as defined in § 1005.17(a), to an accepted access device; and
(iv) A consumer's liability for an unauthorized electronic fund transfer and the investigation of errors involving:
(A) Except with respect to a prepaid account, an extension of credit that is incident to an electronic fund transfer that occurs under an agreement between the consumer and a financial institution to extend credit when the consumer's account is overdrawn or to maintain a specified minimum balance in the consumer's account, or under an overdraft service, as defined in § 1005.17(a);
(B) With respect to transactions that involve a covered separate credit feature and an asset feature on a prepaid account that are both accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as those terms are defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, an extension of credit that is incident to an electronic fund transfer that occurs when the hybrid prepaid-credit card accesses both funds in the asset feature of the prepaid account and a credit extension from the credit feature with respect to a particular transaction;
(C) Transactions that involves credit extended through a negative balance to the asset feature of a prepaid account that meets the conditions set forth in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61(a)(4); and
(D) With respect to transactions involving a prepaid account and a non-covered separate credit feature as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, transactions that access the prepaid account, as applicable.
(2) The Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026), which prohibit the unsolicited issuance of credit cards, govern:
(i) The addition of a credit feature or plan to an accepted access device, including an access device for a prepaid account, that would make the access device into a credit card under Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026);
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the issuance of a credit card that is also an access device; and
(iii) With respect to transactions involving a prepaid account and a non-covered separate credit feature as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, a consumer's liability for unauthorized use and the investigation of errors involving transactions that access the non-covered separate credit feature, as applicable.
(b)
Preemption of inconsistent state laws
—(1)
Inconsistent requirements.
The Bureau shall determine, upon its own motion or upon the request of a state, financial institution, or other interested party, whether the Act and this part preempt state law relating to electronic fund transfers, or dormancy, inactivity, or service fees, or expiration dates in the case of gift certificates, store gift cards, or general-use prepaid cards.
(2)
Standards for determination.
State law is inconsistent with the requirements of the Act and this part if state law:
(i) Requires or permits a practice or act prohibited by the Federal law;
(ii) Provides for consumer liability for unauthorized electronic fund transfers that exceeds the limits imposed by the Federal law;
(iii) Allows longer time periods than the Federal law for investigating and correcting alleged errors, or does not require the financial institution to credit the consumer's account during an error investigation in accordance with § 1005.11(c)(2)(i) of this part; or
(iv) Requires initial disclosures, periodic statements, or receipts that are different in content from those required by the Federal law except to the extent that the disclosures relate to consumer rights granted by the state law and not by the Federal law.
(c)
State exemptions
—(1)
General rule.
Any state may apply for an exemption from the requirements of the Act or this part for any class of electronic fund transfers within the state. The Bureau shall grant an exemption if it determines that:
(i) Under state law the class of electronic fund transfers is subject to requirements substantially similar to those imposed by the Federal law; and
(ii) There is adequate provision for state enforcement.
(2)
Exception.
To assure that the Federal and state courts continue to have concurrent jurisdiction, and to aid in implementing the Act:
(i) No exemption shall extend to the civil liability provisions of section 916 of the Act; and
(ii) When the Bureau grants an exemption, the state law requirements shall constitute the requirements of the Federal law for purposes of section 916 of the Act, except for state law requirements not imposed by the Federal law.
[76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 84326, Nov. 22, 2016]
§ 1005.13
Administrative enforcement; record retention.
(a)
Enforcement by Federal agencies.
Compliance with this part is enforced in accordance with section 918 of the Act.
(b)
Record retention.
(1) Any person subject to the Act and this part shall retain evidence of compliance with the requirements imposed by the Act and this part for a period of not less than two years from the date disclosures are required to be made or action is required to be taken.
(2) Any person subject to the Act and this part having actual notice that it is the subject of an investigation or an enforcement proceeding by its enforcement agency, or having been served with notice of an action filed under sections 910, 916, or 917(a) of the Act, shall retain the records that pertain to the investigation, action, or proceeding until final disposition of the matter unless an earlier time is allowed by court or agency order.
§ 1005.14
Electronic fund transfer service provider not holding consumer's account.
(a)
Provider of electronic fund transfer service.
A person that provides an electronic fund transfer service to a consumer but that does not hold the consumer's account is subject to all requirements of this part if the person:
(1) Issues a debit card (or other access device) that the consumer can use to access the consumer's account held by a financial institution; and
(2) Has no agreement with the account-holding institution regarding such access.
(b)
Compliance by service provider.
In addition to the requirements generally applicable under this part, the service provider shall comply with the following special rules:
(1)
Disclosures and documentation.
The service provider shall give the disclosures and documentation required by §§ 1005.7, 1005.8, and 1005.9 of this part that are within the purview of its relationship with the consumer. The service provider need not furnish the periodic statement required by § 1005.9(b) if the following conditions are met:
(i) The debit card (or other access device) issued to the consumer bears the service provider's name and an address or telephone number for making inquiries or giving notice of error;
(ii) The consumer receives a notice concerning use of the debit card that is substantially similar to the notice contained in appendix A of this part;
(iii) The consumer receives, on or with the receipts required by § 1005.9(a),
the address and telephone number to be used for an inquiry, to give notice of an error, or to report the loss or theft of the debit card;
(iv) The service provider transmits to the account-holding institution the information specified in § 1005.9(b)(1), in the format prescribed by the automated clearinghouse (ACH) system used to clear the fund transfers;
(v) The service provider extends the time period for notice of loss or theft of a debit card, set forth in § 1005.6(b)(1) and (2), from two business days to four business days after the consumer learns of the loss or theft; and extends the time periods for reporting unauthorized transfers or errors, set forth in §§ 1005.6(b)(3) and 1005.11(b)(1)(i), from 60 days to 90 days following the transmittal of a periodic statement by the account-holding institution.
(2)
Error resolution.
(i) The service provider shall extend by a reasonable time the period in which notice of an error must be received, specified in § 1005.11(b)(1)(i), if a delay resulted from an initial attempt by the consumer to notify the account-holding institution.
(ii) The service provider shall disclose to the consumer the date on which it initiates a transfer to effect a provisional credit in accordance with § 1005.11(c)(2)(ii).
(iii) If the service provider determines an error occurred, it shall transfer funds to or from the consumer's account, in the appropriate amount and within the applicable time period, in accordance with § 1005.11(c)(2)(i).
(iv) If funds were provisionally credited and the service provider determines no error occurred, it may reverse the credit. The service provider shall notify the account-holding institution of the period during which the account-holding institution must honor debits to the account in accordance with § 1005.11(d)(2)(ii). If an overdraft results, the service provider shall promptly reimburse the account-holding institution in the amount of the overdraft.
(c)
Compliance by account-holding institution.
The account-holding institution need not comply with the requirements of the Act and this part with respect to electronic fund transfers initiated through the service provider except as follows:
(1)
Documentation.
The account-holding institution shall provide a periodic statement that describes each electronic fund transfer initiated by the consumer with the access device issued by the service provider. The account-holding institution has no liability for the failure to comply with this requirement if the service provider did not provide the necessary information; and
(2)
Error resolution.
Upon request, the account-holding institution shall provide information or copies of documents needed by the service provider to investigate errors or to furnish copies of documents to the consumer. The account-holding institution shall also honor debits to the account in accordance with § 1005.11(d)(2)(ii).
§ 1005.15
Electronic fund transfer of government benefits.
(a)
Government agency subject to regulation.
(1) A government agency is deemed to be a financial institution for purposes of the Act and this part if directly or indirectly it issues an access device to a consumer for use in initiating an electronic fund transfer of government benefits from an account, other than needs-tested benefits in a program established under state or local law or administered by a state or local agency. The agency shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Act and this part except as modified by this section.
(2) For purposes of this section, the term “account” or “government benefit account” means an account established by a government agency for distributing government benefits to a consumer electronically, such as through automated teller machines or point-of-sale terminals, but does not include an account for distributing needs-tested benefits in a program established under state or local law or administered by a state or local agency.
(b)
Issuance of access devices.
For purposes of this section, a consumer is deemed to request an access device when the consumer applies for government benefits that the agency disburses or will disburse by means of an electronic fund transfer. The agency
shall verify the identity of the consumer receiving the device by reasonable means before the device is activated.
(c)
Pre-acquisition disclosure requirements.
(1) Before a consumer acquires a government benefit account, a government agency shall comply with the pre-acquisition disclosure requirements applicable to prepaid accounts as set forth in § 1005.18(b).
(2)
Additional content for government benefit accounts
—(i)
Statement regarding consumer's payment options.
As part of its short form pre-acquisition disclosures, the agency must provide a statement that the consumer does not have to accept the government benefit account and directing the consumer to ask about other ways to receive their benefit payments from the agency instead of receiving them via the account, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “You do not have to accept this benefits card. Ask about other ways to receive your benefits.” Alternatively, an agency may provide a statement that the consumer has several options to receive benefit payments, followed by a list of the options available to the consumer, and directing the consumer to indicate which option the consumer chooses using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “You have several options to receive your payments: [list of options available to the consumer]; or this benefits card. Tell the benefits office which option you choose.” This statement must be located above the information required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(i) through (iv). This statement must appear in a minimum type size of eight points (or 11 pixels) and appear in no larger a type size than what is used for the fee headings required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(i) through (iv).
(ii)
Statement regarding state-required information or other fee discounts and waivers.
An agency may, but is not required to, include a statement in one additional line of text in the short form disclosure directing the consumer to a particular location outside the short form disclosure for information on ways the consumer may access government benefit account funds and balance information for free or for a reduced fee. This statement must be located directly below any statements disclosed pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(3)(i) and (ii), or, if no such statements are disclosed, above the statement required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(x). This statement must appear in the same type size used to disclose variable fee information pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(3)(i) and (ii), or, if none, the same type size used for the information required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(x) through (xiii).
(3)
Form of disclosures.
When a short form disclosure required by paragraph (c) of this section is provided in writing or electronically, the information required by § 1005.18(b)(2)(i) through (ix) shall be provided in the form of a table. Except as provided in § 1005.18(b)(6)(iii)(B), the short form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(2) shall be provided in a form substantially similar to Model Form A-10(a) of appendix A of this part. Sample Form A-10(f) in appendix A of this part provides an example of the long form disclosure required by § 1005.18(b)(4) when the agency does not offer multiple service plans.
(d)
Access to account information
—(1)
Periodic statement alternative.
A government agency need not furnish periodic statements required by § 1005.9(b) if the agency makes available to the consumer:
(i) The consumer's account balance, through a readily available telephone line and at a terminal (such as by providing balance information at a balance-inquiry terminal or providing it, routinely or upon request, on a terminal receipt at the time of an electronic fund transfer);
(ii) An electronic history of the consumer's account transactions, such as through a Web site, that covers at least 12 months preceding the date the consumer electronically accesses the account; and
(iii) A written history of the consumer's account transactions that is provided promptly in response to an oral or written request and that covers at least 24 months preceding the date the agency receives the consumer's request.
(2)
Additional access to account information requirements.
For government benefit accounts, a government agency
shall comply with the account information requirements applicable to prepaid accounts as set forth in § 1005.18(c)(3) through (5).
(e)
Modified disclosure, limitations on liability, and error resolution requirements.
A government agency that provides information under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall comply with the following:
(1)
Initial disclosures.
The agency shall modify the disclosures under § 1005.7(b) by disclosing:
(i)
Access to account information.
A telephone number that the consumer may call to obtain the account balance, the means by which the consumer can obtain an electronic account history, such as the address of a Web site, and a summary of the consumer's right to receive a written account history upon request (in place of the summary of the right to receive a periodic statement required by § 1005.7(b)(6)), including a telephone number to call to request a history. The disclosure required by this paragraph (e)(1)(i) may be made by providing a notice substantially similar to the notice contained in paragraph (a) of appendix A-5 of this part.
(ii)
Error resolution.
A notice concerning error resolution that is substantially similar to the notice contained in paragraph (b) of appendix A-5 of this part, in place of the notice required by § 1005.7(b)(10).
(2)
Annual error resolution notice.
The agency shall provide an annual notice concerning error resolution that is substantially similar to the notice contained in paragraph (b) of appendix A-5 of this part, in place of the notice required by § 1005.8(b). Alternatively, the agency may include on or with each electronic or written history provided in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a notice substantially similar to the abbreviated notice for periodic statements contained in paragraph (b) in appendix A-3 of this part, modified as necessary to reflect the error resolution provisions set forth in this section.
(3)
Modified limitations on liability requirements.
(i) For purposes of § 1005.6(b)(3), the 60-day period for reporting any unauthorized transfer shall begin on the earlier of:
(A) The date the consumer electronically accesses the consumer's account under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, provided that the electronic history made available to the consumer reflects the unauthorized transfer; or
(B) The date the agency sends a written history of the consumer's account transactions requested by the consumer under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section in which the unauthorized transfer is first reflected.
(ii) An agency may comply with paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section by limiting the consumer's liability for an unauthorized transfer as provided under § 1005.6(b)(3) for any transfer reported by the consumer within 120 days after the transfer was credited or debited to the consumer's account.
(4)
Modified error resolution requirements.
(i) The agency shall comply with the requirements of § 1005.11 in response to an oral or written notice of an error from the consumer that is received by the earlier of:
(A) Sixty days after the date the consumer electronically accesses the consumer's account under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, provided that the electronic history made available to the consumer reflects the alleged error; or
(B) Sixty days after the date the agency sends a written history of the consumer's account transactions requested by the consumer under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section in which the alleged error is first reflected.
(ii) In lieu of following the procedures in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, an agency complies with the requirements for resolving errors in § 1005.11 if it investigates any oral or written notice of an error from the consumer that is received by the agency within 120 days after the transfer allegedly in error was credited or debited to the consumer's account.
(f)
Disclosure of fees and other information.
For government benefit accounts, a government agency shall comply with the disclosure and change-in-terms requirements applicable to prepaid accounts as set forth in § 1005.18(f).
(g)
Government benefit accounts accessible by hybrid prepaid-credit cards.
For government benefit accounts accessible
by hybrid prepaid-credit cards as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, a government agency shall comply with prohibitions and requirements applicable to prepaid accounts as set forth in § 1005.18(g).
[81 FR 84326, Nov. 22, 2016]
§ 1005.16
Disclosures at automated teller machines.
(a)
Definition.
“Automated teller machine operator” means any person that operates an automated teller machine at which a consumer initiates an electronic fund transfer or a balance inquiry and that does not hold the account to or from which the transfer is made, or about which an inquiry is made.
(b)
General.
An automated teller machine operator that imposes a fee on a consumer for initiating an electronic fund transfer or a balance inquiry must provide a notice that a fee will be imposed for providing electronic fund transfer services or a balance inquiry that discloses the amount of the fee.
(c)
Notice requirement.
An automated teller machine operator must provide the notice required by paragraph (b) of this section either by showing it on the screen of the automated teller machine or by providing it on paper, before the consumer is committed to paying a fee.
(d)
Imposition of fee.
An automated teller machine operator may impose a fee on a consumer for initiating an electronic fund transfer or a balance inquiry only if:
(1) The consumer is provided the notice required under paragraph (c) of this section, and
(2) The consumer elects to continue the transaction or inquiry after receiving such notice.
[76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 18224, Mar. 26, 2013]
§ 1005.17
Requirements for overdraft services.
(a)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, the term “overdraft service” means a service under which a financial institution assesses a fee or charge on a consumer's account held by the institution for paying a transaction (including a check or other item) when the consumer has insufficient or unavailable funds in the account. The term “overdraft service” does not include any payment of overdrafts pursuant to:
(1) A line of credit subject to Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026), including transfers from a credit card account, home equity line of credit, or overdraft line of credit;
(2) A service that transfers funds from another account held individually or jointly by a consumer, such as a savings account;
(3) A line of credit or other transaction exempt from Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026) pursuant to 12 CFR 1026.3(d); or
(4) A covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61; or credit extended through a negative balance on the asset feature of the prepaid account that meets the conditions of 12 CFR 1026.61(a)(4).
(b)
Opt-in requirement
—(1)
General.
Except as provided under paragraph (c) of this section, a financial institution holding a consumer's account shall not assess a fee or charge on a consumer's account for paying an ATM or one-time debit card transaction pursuant to the institution's overdraft service, unless the institution:
(i) Provides the consumer with a notice in writing, or if the consumer agrees, electronically, segregated from all other information, describing the institution's overdraft service;
(ii) Provides a reasonable opportunity for the consumer to affirmatively consent, or opt in, to the service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions;
(iii) Obtains the consumer's affirmative consent, or opt-in, to the institution's payment of ATM or one-time debit card transactions; and
(iv) Provides the consumer with confirmation of the consumer's consent in writing, or if the consumer agrees, electronically, which includes a statement informing the consumer of the right to revoke such consent.
(2)
Conditioning payment of other overdrafts on consumer's affirmative consent.
A financial institution shall not:
(i) Condition the payment of any overdrafts for checks, ACH transactions, and other types of transactions on the consumer affirmatively consenting to the institution's payment of ATM and one-time debit card transactions pursuant to the institution's overdraft service; or
(ii) Decline to pay checks, ACH transactions, and other types of transactions that overdraw the consumer's account because the consumer has not affirmatively consented to the institution's overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions.
(3)
Same account terms, conditions, and features.
A financial institution shall provide to consumers who do not affirmatively consent to the institution's overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions the same account terms, conditions, and features that it provides to consumers who affirmatively consent, except for the overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions.
(c)
Timing
—(1)
Existing account holders.
For accounts opened prior to July 1, 2010, the financial institution must not assess any fees or charges on a consumer's account on or after August 15, 2010, for paying an ATM or one-time debit card transaction pursuant to the overdraft service, unless the institution has complied with § 1005.17(b)(1) and obtained the consumer's affirmative consent.
(2)
New account holders.
For accounts opened on or after July 1, 2010, the financial institution must comply with § 1005.17(b)(1) and obtain the consumer's affirmative consent before the institution assesses any fee or charge on the consumer's account for paying an ATM or one-time debit card transaction pursuant to the institution's overdraft service.
(d)
Content and format.
The notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall be substantially similar to Model Form A-9 set forth in appendix A of this part, include all applicable items in this paragraph, and may not contain any information not specified in or otherwise permitted by this paragraph.
(1)
Overdraft service.
A brief description of the financial institution's overdraft service and the types of transactions for which a fee or charge for paying an overdraft may be imposed, including ATM and one-time debit card transactions.
(2)
Fees imposed.
The dollar amount of any fees or charges assessed by the financial institution for paying an ATM or one-time debit card transaction pursuant to the institution's overdraft service, including any daily or other overdraft fees. If the amount of the fee is determined on the basis of the number of times the consumer has overdrawn the account, the amount of the overdraft, or other factors, the institution must disclose the maximum fee that may be imposed.
(3)
Limits on fees charged.
The maximum number of overdraft fees or charges that may be assessed per day, or, if applicable, that there is no limit.
(4)
Disclosure of opt-in right.
An explanation of the consumer's right to affirmatively consent to the financial institution's payment of overdrafts for ATM and one-time debit card transactions pursuant to the institution's overdraft service, including the methods by which the consumer may consent to the service; and
(5)
Alternative plans for covering overdrafts.
If the institution offers a line of credit subject to Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026) or a service that transfers funds from another account of the consumer held at the institution to cover overdrafts, the institution must state that fact. An institution may, but is not required to, list additional alternatives for the payment of overdrafts.
(6)
Permitted modifications and additional content.
If applicable, the institution may modify the content required by § 1005.17(d) to indicate that the consumer has the right to opt into, or opt out of, the payment of overdrafts under the institution's overdraft service for other types of transactions, such as checks, ACH transactions, or automatic bill payments; to provide a means for the consumer to exercise this choice; and to disclose the associated returned item fee and that additional merchant fees may apply. The institution may also disclose the consumer's right to revoke consent. For notices provided to consumers who have opened accounts prior to July 1,
2010, the financial institution may describe the institution's overdraft service with respect to ATM and one-time debit card transactions with a statement such as “After August 15, 2010, we will not authorize and pay overdrafts for the following types of transactions unless you ask us to (see below).”
(e)
Joint relationships.
If two or more consumers jointly hold an account, the financial institution shall treat the affirmative consent of any of the joint consumers as affirmative consent for that account. Similarly, the financial institution shall treat a revocation of affirmative consent by any of the joint consumers as revocation of consent for that account.
(f)
Continuing right to opt in or to revoke the opt-in.
A consumer may affirmatively consent to the financial institution's overdraft service at any time in the manner described in the notice required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. A consumer may also revoke consent at any time in the manner made available to the consumer for providing consent. A financial institution must implement a consumer's revocation of consent as soon as reasonably practicable.
(g)
Duration and revocation of opt-in.
A consumer's affirmative consent to the institution's overdraft service is effective until revoked by the consumer, or unless the financial institution terminates the service.
[76 FR 81023, Dec. 27, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 84328, Nov. 22, 2016]
§ 1005.18
Requirements for financial institutions offering prepaid accounts.
(a)
Coverage.
A financial institution shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Act and this part with respect to prepaid accounts except as modified by this section. For rules governing government benefit accounts, see § 1005.15.
(b)
Pre-acquisition disclosure requirements
—(1)
Timing of disclosures
—(i)
General.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section, a financial institution shall provide the disclosures required by paragraph (b) of this section before a consumer acquires a prepaid account. When a prepaid account is used for disbursing funds to a consumer, and the financial institution or third party making the disbursement does not offer any alternative means for the consumer to receive those funds in lieu of accepting the prepaid account, for purposes of this paragraph, the disclosures required by paragraph (b) of this section may be provided at the time the consumer receives the prepaid account.
(ii)
Disclosures for prepaid accounts acquired in retail locations.
A financial institution is not required to provide the long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section before a consumer acquires a prepaid account in person at a retail location if the following conditions are met:
(A) The prepaid account access device is contained inside the packaging material.
(B) The disclosure required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section is provided on or are visible through an outward-facing, external surface of a prepaid account access device's packaging material.
(C) The disclosure required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section includes the information set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(xiii) of this section that allows a consumer to access the information required to be disclosed by paragraph (b)(4) of this section by telephone and via a website.
(D) The long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section is provided after the consumer acquires the prepaid account. If a financial institution does not provide the long form disclosure inside the prepaid account packaging material, and it is not otherwise already mailing or delivering to the consumer written account-related communications within 30 days of obtaining the consumer's contact information, it may provide the long form disclosure pursuant to this paragraph in electronic form without regard to the consumer notice and consent requirements of section 101(c) of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
).
(iii)
Disclosures for prepaid accounts acquired orally by telephone.
A financial institution is not required to provide the long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section before a
consumer acquires a prepaid account orally by telephone if the following conditions are met:
(A) The financial institution communicates to the consumer orally, before the consumer acquires the prepaid account, that the information required to be disclosed by paragraph (b)(4) of this section is available both by telephone and on a Web site.
(B) The financial institution makes the information required to be disclosed by paragraph (b)(4) of this section available both by telephone and on a Web site.
(C) The long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section is provided after the consumer acquires the prepaid account.
(2)
Short form disclosure content.
In accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a financial institution shall provide a disclosure setting forth the following fees and information for a prepaid account, as applicable:
(i)
Periodic fee.
The periodic fee charged for holding the prepaid account, assessed on a monthly or other periodic basis, using the term “Monthly fee,” “Annual fee,” or a substantially similar term.
(ii)
Per purchase fee.
The fee for making a purchase using the prepaid account, using the term “Per purchase” or a substantially similar term.
(iii)
ATM withdrawal fees.
Two fees for using an automated teller machine to initiate a withdrawal of cash in the United States from the prepaid account, both within and outside of the financial institution's network or a network affiliated with the financial institution, using the term “ATM withdrawal” or a substantially similar term, and “in-network” or “out-of-network,” respectively, or substantially similar terms.
(iv)
Cash reload fee.
The fee for reloading cash into the prepaid account using the term “Cash reload” or a substantially similar term. The fee disclosed must be the total of all charges from the financial institution and any third parties for a cash reload.
(v)
ATM balance inquiry fees.
Two fees for using an automated teller machine to check the balance of the prepaid account in the United States, both within and outside of the financial institution's network or a network affiliated with the financial institution, using the term “ATM balance inquiry” or a substantially similar term, and “in-network” or “out-of-network,” respectively, or substantially similar terms.
(vi)
Customer service fees.
Two fees for calling the financial institution about the prepaid account, both for calling an interactive voice response system and a live customer service agent, using the term “Customer service” or a substantially similar term, and “automated” or “live agent,” or substantially similar terms, respectively, and “per call” or a substantially similar term. When providing a short form disclosure for multiple service plans pursuant to paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(B)(
2
) of this section, disclose only the fee for calling the live agent customer service about the prepaid account, using the term “Live customer service” or a substantially similar term and “per call” or a substantially similar term.
(vii)
Inactivity fee.
The fee for non-use, dormancy, or inactivity of the prepaid account, using the term “Inactivity” or a substantially similar term, as well as the conditions that trigger the financial institution to impose that fee.
(viii)
Statements regarding additional fee types
—(A)
Statement regarding number of additional fee types charged.
A statement disclosing the number of additional fee types the financial institution may charge consumers with respect to the prepaid account, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “We charge [x] other types of fees.” The number of additional fee types disclosed must reflect the total number of fee types under which the financial institution may charge fees, excluding:
(
1
) Fees required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) and (b)(5) of this section; and
(
2
) Any finance charges as described in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.4(b)(11), imposed in connection with a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in 12 CFR 1026.61.
(B)
Statement directing consumers to disclosure of additional fee types.
If a financial institution makes a disclosure pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ix) of this
section, a statement directing consumers to that disclosure, located after but on the same line of text as the statement regarding the number of additional fee types required by paragraph (b)(2)(viii)(A) of this section, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “Here are some of them:”.
(ix)
Disclosure of additional fee types
—(A)
Determination of which additional fee types to disclose.
The two fee types that generate the highest revenue from consumers for the prepaid account program or across prepaid account programs that share the same fee schedule during the time period provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ix)(D) and (E) of this section, excluding:
(
1
) Fees required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) and (b)(5) of this section;
(
2
) Any fee types that generated less than 5 percent of the total revenue from consumers for the prepaid account program or across prepaid account programs that share the same fee schedule during the time period provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(ix)(D) and (E) of this section; and
(
3
) Any finance charges as described in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.4(b)(11), imposed in connection with a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in 12 CFR 1026.61.
(B)
Disclosure of fewer than two additional fee types.
A financial institution that has only one additional fee type that satisfies the criteria in paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(A) of this section must disclose that one additional fee type; it may, but is not required to, also disclose another additional fee type of its choice. A financial institution that has no additional fee types that satisfy the criteria in paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(A) of this section is not required to make a disclosure under this paragraph (b)(2)(ix); it may, but is not required to, disclose one or two fee types of its choice.
(C)
Fee variations in additional fee types.
If an additional fee type required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(A) of this section has more than two fee variations, or when providing a short form disclosure for multiple service plans pursuant to paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(B)(
2
) of this section, the financial institution must disclose the name of the additional fee type and the highest fee amount in accordance with paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section; for disclosures other than for multiple service plans, it may, but is not required to, consolidate the fee variations into two categories and disclose the names of those two fee variation categories and the fee amounts in a format substantially similar to that used to disclose the two-tier fees required by paragraphs (b)(2)(v) and (vi) of this section and in accordance with paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(7)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section. Except when providing a short form disclosure for multiple service plans pursuant to paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(B)(
2
) of this section, if an additional fee type has two fee variations, the financial institution must disclose the name of the additional fee type together with the names of the two fee variations and the fee amounts in a format substantially similar to that used to disclose the two-tier fees required by paragraphs (b)(2)(v) and (vi) of this section and in accordance with paragraph (b)(7)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section. If a financial institution only charges one fee under a particular fee type, the financial institution must disclose the name of the additional fee type and the fee amount; it may, but is not required to, disclose also the name of the one fee variation for which the fee amount is charged, in a format substantially similar to that used to disclose the two-tier fees required by paragraphs (b)(2)(v) and (vi) of this section, except that the financial institution would disclose only the one fee variation name and fee amount instead of two.
(D)
Timing of initial assessment of additional fee types disclosure
—(
1
)
Existing prepaid account programs as of April 1, 2019.
For a prepaid account program in effect as of April 1, 2019, the financial institution must disclose the additional fee types based on revenue for a 24-month period that begins no earlier than October 1, 2014.
(
2
)
Existing prepaid account programs as of April 1, 2019 with unavailable data.
If a financial institution does not have 24 months of fee revenue data for a particular prepaid account program from
which to calculate the additional fee types disclosure in advance of April 1, 2019, the financial institution must disclose the additional fee types based on revenue it reasonably anticipates the prepaid account program will generate over the 24-month period that begins on April 1, 2019.
(
3
)
New prepaid account programs created on or after April 1, 2019.
For a prepaid account program created on or after April 1, 2019, the financial institution must disclose the additional fee types based on revenue it reasonably anticipates the prepaid account program will generate over the first 24 months of the program.
(E)
Timing of periodic reassessment and update of additional fee types disclosure
—(
1
)
General.
A financial institution must reassess its additional fee types disclosure periodically as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(E)(
2
) of this section and upon a fee schedule change as described in paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(E)(
3
) of this section. The financial institution must update its additional fee types disclosure if the previous disclosure no longer complies with the requirements of this paragraph (b)(2)(ix).
(
2
)
Periodic reassessment.
A financial institution must reassess whether its previously disclosed additional fee types continue to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (b)(2)(ix) every 24 months based on revenue for the previous 24-month period. The financial institution must complete this reassessment and update its disclosure, if applicable, within three months of the end of the 24-month period, except as provided in the update printing exception in paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(E)(
4
) of this section. A financial institution may, but is not required to, carry out this reassessment and update, if applicable, more frequently than every 24 months, at which time a new 24-month period commences.
(
3
)
Fee schedule change.
If a financial institution revises the fee schedule for a prepaid account program, it must determine whether it reasonably anticipates that the previously disclosed additional fee types will continue to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (b)(2)(ix) for the 24 months following implementation of the fee schedule change. If the financial institution reasonably anticipates that the previously disclosed additional fee types will not comply with the requirements of this paragraph (b)(2)(ix), it must update the disclosure based on its reasonable anticipation of what those additional fee types will be at the time the fee schedule change goes into effect, except as provided in the update printing exception in paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(E)(
4
) of this section. If an immediate change in terms and conditions is necessary to maintain or restore the security of an account or an electronic fund transfer system as described in § 1005.8(a)(2) and that change affects the prepaid account program's fee schedule, the financial institution must complete its reassessment and update its disclosure, if applicable, within three months of the date it makes the change permanent, except as provided in the update printing exception in paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(E)(
4
) of this section.
(
4
)
Update printing exception.
Notwithstanding the requirements to update an additional fee types disclosure in paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(E) of this section, a financial institution is not required to update the listing of additional fee types that are provided on, in, or with prepaid account packaging materials that were manufactured, printed, or otherwise produced prior to a periodic reassessment and update pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(E)(
2
) of this section or prior to a fee schedule change pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(ix)(E)(
3
) of this section.
(x)
Statement regarding overdraft credit features.
If a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, may be offered at any point to a consumer in connection with the prepaid account, a statement that overdraft/credit may be offered, the time period after which it may be offered, and that fees would apply, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “You may be offered overdraft/credit after [x] days. Fees would apply.” If no such credit feature will be offered at any point to a consumer in connection with the prepaid account, a statement that no overdraft
credit feature is offered, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “No overdraft/credit feature.”
(xi)
Statement regarding registration and FDIC or NCUA insurance.
A statement regarding the prepaid account program's eligibility for FDIC deposit insurance or NCUA share insurance, as appropriate, and directing the consumer to register the prepaid account for insurance and other account protections, where applicable, as follows:
(A)
Account is insurance eligible and does not have pre-acquisition consumer identification/verification.
If a prepaid account program is set up to be eligible for FDIC deposit or NCUA share insurance, and consumer identification and verification does not occur before the account is opened, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “Register your card for [FDIC insurance eligibility] [NCUA insurance, if eligible,] and other protections.”
(B)
Account is not insurance eligible and does not have pre-acquisition consumer identification/verification.
If a prepaid account program is not set up to be eligible for FDIC deposit or NCUA share insurance, and consumer identification and verification does not occur before the account is opened, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “Not [FDIC] [NCUA] insured. Register your card for other protections.”
(C)
Account is insurance eligible and has pre-acquisition consumer identification/verification.
If a prepaid account program is set up to be eligible for FDIC deposit or NCUA share insurance, and consumer identification and verification occurs for all prepaid accounts within the prepaid program before the account is opened, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “Your funds are [eligible for FDIC insurance] [NCUA insured, if eligible].”
(D)
Account is not insurance eligible and has pre-acquisition consumer identification/verification.
If a prepaid account program is not set up to be eligible for FDIC deposit or NCUA share insurance, and consumer identification and verification occurs for all prepaid accounts within the prepaid account program before the account is opened, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “Your funds are not [FDIC] [NCUA] insured.”
(E)
No consumer identification/verification.
If a prepaid account program is set up such that there is no consumer identification and verification process for any prepaid accounts within the prepaid account program, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “Treat this card like cash. Not [FDIC] [NCUA] insured.”
(xii)
Statement regarding CFPB Web site.
A statement directing the consumer to a Web site URL of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (
cfpb.gov/prepaid
) for general information about prepaid accounts, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “For general information about prepaid accounts, visit
cfpb.gov/prepaid
.”
(xiii)
Statement regarding information on all fees and services.
A statement directing the consumer to the location of the long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section to find details and conditions for all fees and services. For a financial institution offering prepaid accounts at a retail location pursuant to the retail location exception in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, this statement must also include a telephone number and a Web site URL that a consumer may use to directly access, respectively, an oral and an electronic version of the long form disclosure required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The disclosure required by this paragraph must be made using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “Find details and conditions for all fees and services in [location]” or, for prepaid accounts offered at retail locations pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, made using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “Find details and conditions for all fees and services inside the package, or call [telephone number] or visit [Web site].” The Web site URL may not exceed 22 characters and must be meaningfully named. A financial institution may, but is not required to, disclose an SMS code at the end of the statement disclosing the telephone number and Web site URL, if the SMS
code can be accommodated on the same line of text as the statement required by this paragraph.
(xiv)
Additional content for payroll card accounts
—(A)
Statement regarding wage or salary payment options.
For payroll card accounts, a statement that the consumer does not have to accept the payroll card account and directing the consumer to ask about other ways to receive wages or salary from the employer instead of receiving them via the payroll card account using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “You do not have to accept this payroll card. Ask your employer about other ways to receive your wages.” Alternatively, a financial institution may provide a statement that the consumer has several options to receive wages or salary, followed by a list of the options available to the consumer, and directing the consumer to tell the employer which option the consumer chooses using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “You have several options to receive your wages: [list of options available to the consumer]; or this payroll card. Tell your employer which option you choose.” This statement must be located above the information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv).
(B)
Statement regarding state-required information or other fee discounts and waivers.
For payroll card accounts, a financial institution may, but is not required to, include a statement in one additional line of text directing the consumer to a particular location outside the short form disclosure for information on ways the consumer may access payroll card account funds and balance information for free or for a reduced fee. This statement must be located directly below any statements disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, or, if no such statements are disclosed, above the statement required by paragraph (b)(2)(x) of this section.
(3)
Short form disclosure of variable fees and third-party fees and prohibition on disclosure of finance charges
—(i)
General disclosure of variable fees.
If the amount of any fee that is required to be disclosed in the short form disclosure pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) and (ix) of this section could vary, a financial institution shall disclose the highest amount it may impose for that fee, followed by a symbol, such as an asterisk, linked to a statement explaining that the fee could be lower depending on how and where the prepaid account is used, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “This fee can be lower depending on how and where this card is used.” Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, a financial institution must use the same symbol and statement for all fees that could vary. The linked statement must be located above the statement required by paragraph (b)(2)(x) of this section.
(ii)
Disclosure of variable periodic fee.
If the amount of the periodic fee disclosed in the short form disclosure pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section could vary, as an alternative to the disclosure required by paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the financial institution may disclose the highest amount it may impose for the periodic fee, followed by a symbol, such as a dagger, that is different from the symbol the financial institution uses pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, to indicate that a waiver of the fee or a lower fee might apply, linked to a statement in one additional line of text disclosing the waiver or reduced fee amount and explaining the circumstances under which the fee waiver or reduction may occur. The linked statement must be located directly above or in place of the linked statement required by paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, as applicable.
(iii)
Single disclosure for like fees.
As an alternative to the two-tier fee disclosure required by paragraphs (b)(2)(iii), (v), and (vi) of this section and any two-tier fee required by paragraph (b)(2)(ix) of this section, a financial institution may disclose a single fee amount when the amount is the same for both fees.
(iv)
Third-party fees in general.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section, a financial institution may not include any third-party fees in a disclosure made pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(v)
Third-party cash reload fees.
Any third-party fee included in the cash reload fee disclosed in the short form pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section must be the highest fee known by the financial institution at the time it prints, or otherwise prepares, the short form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section. A financial institution is not required to revise its short form disclosure to reflect a cash reload fee change by a third party until such time that the financial institution manufactures, prints, or otherwise produces new prepaid account packaging materials or otherwise updates the short form disclosure.
(vi)
Prohibition on disclosure of finance charges.
A financial institution may not include in a disclosure made pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section any finance charges as described in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.4(b)(11), imposed in connection with a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in 12 CFR 1026.61.
(4)
Long form disclosure content.
In accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, a financial institution shall provide a disclosure setting forth the following fees and information for a prepaid account, as applicable:
(i)
Title for long form disclosure.
A heading stating the name of the prepaid account program and that the long form disclosure contains a list of all fees for that particular prepaid account program.
(ii)
Fees.
All fees that may be imposed in connection with a prepaid account. For each fee, the financial institution must disclose the amount of the fee and the conditions, if any, under which the fee may be imposed, waived, or reduced. A financial institution may not use any symbols, such as an asterisk, to explain conditions under which any fee may be imposed. A financial institution may, but is not required to, include in the long form disclosure any service or feature it provides or offers at no charge to the consumer. The financial institution must also disclose any third-party fee amounts known to the financial institution that may apply. For any such third-party fee disclosed, the financial institution may, but is not required to, include either or both a statement that the fee is accurate as of or through a specific date or that the third-party fee is subject to change. If a third-party fee may apply but the amount of that fee is not known by the financial institution, it must include a statement indicating that the third-party fee may apply without specifying the fee amount. A financial institution is not required to revise the long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section to reflect a fee change by a third party until such time that the financial institution manufactures, prints, or otherwise produces new prepaid account packaging materials or otherwise updates the long form disclosure.
(iii)
Statement regarding registration and FDIC or NCUA insurance.
The statement required by paragraph (b)(2)(xi) of this section, together with an explanation of FDIC or NCUA insurance coverage and the benefit of such coverage or the consequence of the lack of such coverage, as applicable.
(iv)
Statement regarding overdraft credit features.
The statement required by paragraph (b)(2)(x) of this section.
(v)
Statement regarding financial institution contact information.
A statement directing the consumer to a telephone number, mailing address, and Web site URL of the person or office that a consumer may contact to learn about the terms and conditions of the prepaid account, to obtain prepaid account balance information, to request a copy of transaction history pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section if the financial institution does not provide periodic statements pursuant to § 1005.9(b), or to notify the financial institution when the consumer believes that an unauthorized electronic fund transfer occurred as required by § 1005.7(b)(2) and paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.
(vi)
Statement regarding CFPB Web site and telephone number.
A statement directing the consumer to a Web site URL of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (
cfpb.gov/prepaid
) for general information about prepaid accounts, and a statement directing the consumer to a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau telephone number (1-855-411-2372) and Web site URL
(
cfpb.gov/complaint
) to submit a complaint about a prepaid account, using the following clause or a substantially similar clause: “For general information about prepaid accounts, visit
cfpb.gov/prepaid
. If you have a complaint about a prepaid account, call the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau at 1-855-411-2372 or visit
cfpb.gov/complaint
.”
(vii)
Regulation Z disclosures for overdraft credit features.
The disclosures described in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.60(e)(1), in accordance with the requirements for such disclosures in 12 CFR 1026.60, if, at any point, a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in 12 CFR 1026.61, may be offered in connection with the prepaid account. A financial institution may, but is not required to, include above the Regulation Z disclosures required by this paragraph a heading and other explanatory information introducing the overdraft credit feature. A financial institution is not required to revise the disclosure required by this paragraph to reflect a change in the fees or other terms disclosed therein until such time as the financial institution manufactures, prints, or otherwise produces new prepaid account packaging materials or otherwise updates the long form disclosure.
(5)
Disclosure requirements outside the short form disclosure.
At the time a financial institution provides the short form disclosure, it must also disclose the following information: the name of the financial institution; the name of the prepaid account program; the purchase price for the prepaid account, if any; and the fee for activating the prepaid account, if any. In a setting other than in a retail location, this information must be disclosed in close proximity to the short form. In a retail location, this information, other than the purchase price, must be disclosed on the exterior of the access device's packaging material. In a retail location, the purchase price must be disclosed either on the exterior of or in close proximity to the prepaid account access device's packaging material.
(6)
Form of pre-acquisition disclosures
—(i)
General
—(A)
Written disclosures.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(B) and (C) of this section, disclosures required by paragraph (b) of this section must be in writing.
(B)
Electronic disclosures.
Unless provided in written form prior to acquisition pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the disclosures required by paragraph (b) of this section must be provided in electronic form when a consumer acquires a prepaid account through electronic means, including via a website or mobile application, and must be viewable across all screen sizes. The long form disclosure must be provided electronically through a website when a financial institution is offering prepaid accounts at a retail location pursuant to the retail location exception in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. Electronic disclosures must be provided in a manner which is reasonably expected to be accessible in light of how a consumer is acquiring the prepaid account, in a responsive form, and using machine-readable text that is accessible via Web browsers or mobile applications, as applicable, and via screen readers. Electronic disclosures provided pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section need not meet the consumer consent and other applicable provisions of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
).
(C)
Oral disclosures.
Unless provided in written form prior to acquisition pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, disclosures required by paragraphs (b)(2) and (5) of this section must be provided orally when a consumer acquires a prepaid account orally by telephone pursuant to the exception in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. For prepaid accounts acquired in retail locations or orally by telephone, the disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section provided by telephone pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(C) or (b)(1)(iii)(B) of this section also must be made orally.
(ii)
Retainable form.
Pursuant to § 1005.4(a)(1), disclosures required by paragraph (b) of this section must be made in a form that a consumer may keep, except for disclosures provided orally pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section, a long form disclosure provided via SMS as permitted by paragraph (b)(2)(xiii) of this section
for a prepaid account sold at retail locations pursuant to the retail location exception in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, and the disclosure of a purchase price pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section that is not disclosed on the exterior of the packaging material for a prepaid account sold at a retail location pursuant to the retail location exception in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(iii)
Tabular format
—(A)
General.
When a short form disclosure is provided in writing or electronically, the information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section shall be provided in the form of a table. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(B) of this section, the short form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be provided in a form substantially similar to Model Forms A-10(a) through (d) in appendix A of this part, as applicable. When a long form disclosure is provided in writing or electronically, the information required by paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section shall be provided in the form of a table. Sample Form A-10(f) in appendix A of this part provides an example of the long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section when the financial institution does not offer multiple service plans.
(B)
Multiple service plans
—(
1
)
Short form disclosure for default service plan.
When a financial institution offers multiple service plans within a particular prepaid account program and each plan has a different fee schedule, the information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section may be provided in the tabular format described in paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(A) of this section for the service plan in which a consumer is initially enrolled by default upon acquiring the prepaid account.
(
2
)
Short form disclosure for multiple service plans.
As an alternative to disclosing the default service plan pursuant to paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section, when a financial institution offers multiple service plans within a particular prepaid account program and each plan has a different fee schedule, fee disclosures required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vii) and (ix) of this section may be provided in the form of a table with separate columns for each service plan, in a form substantially similar to Model Form A-10(e) in appendix A of this part. Column headings must describe each service plan included in the table, using the terms “Pay-as-you-go plan,” “Monthly plan,” “Annual plan,” or substantially similar terms; or, for multiple service plans offering preferred rates or fees for the prepaid accounts of consumers who also use another non-prepaid service, column headings must describe each service plan included in the table for the preferred and non-preferred service plans, as applicable.
(
3
)
Long form disclosure.
The information in the long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section must be presented in the form of a table for all service plans.
(7)
Specific formatting requirements for pre-acquisition disclosures
—(i)
Grouping
—(A)
Short form disclosure.
The information required in the short form disclosure by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section must be grouped together and provided in that order. The information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(v) through (ix) of this section must be generally grouped together and provided in that order. The information required by paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable, must be generally grouped together and in the location described by paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. The information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(x) through (xiii) of this section must be generally grouped together and provided in that order. The statement regarding wage or salary payment options for payroll card accounts required by paragraph (b)(2)(xiv)(A) of this section must be located above the information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as described in paragraph (b)(2)(xiv)(A) of this section. The statement regarding state-required information or other fee discounts or waivers permitted by paragraph (b)(2)(xiv)(B) of this section, when applicable, must appear in the location described by paragraph (b)(2)(xiv)(B) of this section.
(B)
Long form disclosure.
The information required by paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section must be located in the first
line of the long form disclosure. The information required by paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section must be generally grouped together and organized under subheadings by the categories of function for which a financial institution may impose the fee. Text describing the conditions under which a fee may be imposed must appear in the table required by paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(A) of this section in close proximity to the fee amount. The statements in the long form disclosure required by paragraphs (b)(4)(iii) through (vi) of this section must be generally grouped together, provided in that order, and appear below the information required by paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. If, pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(vii) of this section, the financial institution includes the disclosures described in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.60(e)(1), such disclosures must appear below the statements required by paragraph (b)(4)(vi) of this section.
(C)
Multiple service plan disclosure.
When providing a short form disclosure for multiple service plans pursuant to paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(B)(
2
) of this section, in lieu of the requirements in paragraph (b)(7)(i)(A) of this section for grouping of the disclosures required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) and (v) through (ix) of this section, the information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section must be grouped together and provided in that order.
(ii)
Prominence and size
—(A)
General.
All text used to disclose information in the short form or in the long form disclosure pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3)(i) and (ii), and (b)(4) of this section must be in a single, easy-to-read type that is all black or one color and printed on a background that provides a clear contrast.
(B)
Short form disclosure
—(
1
)
Fees and other information.
The information required in the short form disclosure by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section must appear as follows: Fee amounts in bold-faced type; single fee amounts in a minimum type size of 15 points (or 21 pixels); two-tier fee amounts for ATM withdrawal in a minimum type size of 11 points (or 16 pixels) and in no larger a type size than what is used for the single fee amounts; and fee headings in a minimum type size of eight points (or 11 pixels) and in no larger a type size than what is used for the single fee amounts. The information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(v) through (ix) of this section must appear in a minimum type size of eight points (or 11 pixels) and appear in the same or a smaller type size than what is used for the fee headings required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. The information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(x) through (xiii) of this section must appear in a minimum type size of seven points (or nine pixels) and appear in no larger a type size than what is used for the information required to be disclosed by paragraphs (b)(2)(v) through (ix) of this section. Additionally, the statements disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(viii)(A) and (b)(2)(x) of this section and the telephone number and URL disclosed pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(xiii) of this section, where applicable, must appear in bold-faced type. The following information must appear in a minimum type size of six points (or eight pixels) and appear in no larger a type size that what is used for the information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(x) through (xiii) of this section: text used to distinguish each of the two-tier fees pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2)(iii), (v), (vi), and (ix) of this section; text used to explain that the fee required by paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section applies “per call,” where applicable; and text used to explain the conditions that trigger an inactivity fee and that the fee applies monthly or for the applicable time period, pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section.
(
2
)
Variable fees.
The symbols and corresponding statements regarding variable fees disclosed in the short form pursuant to paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, when applicable, must appear in a minimum type size of seven points (or nine pixels) and appear in no larger a type size than what is used for the information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(x) through (xiii) of this section. A symbol required next to the fee amount pursuant to paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section must appear in the same type size or pixel size as what is used for the corresponding fee amount.
(
3
)
Payroll card account additional content.
The statement regarding wage or salary payment options for payroll card accounts required by paragraph (b)(2)(xiv)(A) of this section, when applicable, must appear in a minimum type size of eight points (or 11 pixels) and appear in no larger a type size than what is used for the fee headings required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. The statement regarding state-required information and other fee discounts or waivers permitted by paragraph (b)(2)(xiv)(B) of this section must appear in the same type size used to disclose variable fee information pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, or, if none, the same type size used for the information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(x) through (xiii) of this section.
(C)
Long form disclosure.
The long form disclosure required by paragraph (b)(4) of this section must appear in a minimum type size of eight points (or 11 pixels).
(D)
Multiple service plan short form disclosure.
When providing a short form disclosure for multiple service plans pursuant to paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(B)(
2
) of this section, the fee headings required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section must appear in bold-faced type. The information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xiii) of this section must appear in a minimum type size of seven points (or nine pixels), except the following must appear in a minimum type size of six points (or eight pixels) and appear in no larger a type size than what is used for the information required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (xiii) of this section: Text used to distinguish each of the two-tier fees required by paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) and (v) of this section; text used to explain that the fee required by paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section applies “per call,” where applicable; text used to explain the conditions that trigger an inactivity fee pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section; and text used to distinguish that fees required by paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (vii) of this section apply monthly or for the applicable time period.
(iii)
Segregation.
Short form and long form disclosures required by paragraphs (b)(2) and (4) of this section must be segregated from other information and must contain only information that is required or permitted for those disclosures by paragraph (b) of this section.
(8)
Terminology of pre-acquisition disclosures.
Fee names and other terms must be used consistently within and across the disclosures required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(9)
Prepaid accounts acquired in foreign languages
—(i)
General.
A financial institution must provide the pre-acquisition disclosures required by paragraph (b) of this section in a foreign language, if the financial institution uses that same foreign language in connection with the acquisition of a prepaid account in the following circumstances:
(A) The financial institution principally uses a foreign language on the prepaid account packaging material;
(B) The financial institution principally uses a foreign language to advertise, solicit, or market a prepaid account and provides a means in the advertisement, solicitation, or marketing material that the consumer uses to acquire the prepaid account by telephone or electronically; or
(C) The financial institution provides a means for the consumer to acquire a prepaid account by telephone or electronically principally in a foreign language. However, foreign language pre-acquisition disclosures are not required for payroll card accounts and government benefit accounts where the foreign language is offered by telephone via a real-time language interpretation service provided by a third party or by the employer or government agency on an informal or ad hoc basis as an accommodation to prospective payroll card account or government benefit account holders.
(ii)
Long form disclosures in English upon request.
A financial institution required to provide pre-acquisition disclosures in a foreign language pursuant to paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section must also provide the information required to be disclosed in its pre-acquisition long form disclosure pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section in English upon a consumer's request and on any part of the Web site where it
discloses this information in a foreign language.
(c)
Access to prepaid account information
—(1)
Periodic statement alternative.
A financial institution need not furnish periodic statements required by § 1005.9(b) if the financial institution makes available to the consumer:
(i) The consumer's account balance, through a readily available telephone line;
(ii) An electronic history of the consumer's account transactions, such as through a Web site, that covers at least 12 months preceding the date the consumer electronically accesses the account; and
(iii) A written history of the consumer's account transactions that is provided promptly in response to an oral or written request and that covers at least 24 months preceding the date the financial institution receives the consumer's request.
(2)
Periodic statement alternative for unverified prepaid accounts.
For prepaid accounts that are not payroll card accounts or government benefit accounts, a financial institution is not required to provide a written history of the consumer's account transactions pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section for any prepaid account for which the financial institution has not completed its consumer identification and verification process as described in paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.
(3)
Information included on electronic or written histories.
The history of account transactions provided under paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section must include the information set forth in § 1005.9(b).
(4)
Inclusion of all fees charged.
A financial institution must disclose the amount of any fees assessed against the account, whether for electronic fund transfers or otherwise, on any periodic statement provided pursuant to § 1005.9(b) and on any history of account transactions provided or made available by the financial institution.
(5)
Summary totals of fees.
A financial institution must display a summary total of the amount of all fees assessed by the financial institution against the consumer's prepaid account for the prior calendar month and for the calendar year to date on any periodic statement provided pursuant to § 1005.9(b) and on any history of account transactions provided or made available by the financial institution.
(d)
Modified disclosure requirements.
A financial institution that provides information under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall comply with the following:
(1)
Initial disclosures.
The financial institution shall modify the disclosures under § 1005.7(b) by disclosing:
(i)
Access to account information.
A telephone number that the consumer may call to obtain the account balance, the means by which the consumer can obtain an electronic account transaction history, such as the address of a Web site, and a summary of the consumer's right to receive a written account transaction history upon request (in place of the summary of the right to receive a periodic statement required by § 1005.7(b)(6)), including a telephone number to call to request a history. The disclosure required by this paragraph may be made by providing a notice substantially similar to the notice contained in paragraph (a) of appendix A-7 of this part.
(ii)
Error resolution.
A notice concerning error resolution that is substantially similar to the notice contained in paragraph (b) of appendix A-7 of this part, in place of the notice required by § 1005.7(b)(10). Alternatively, for prepaid account programs for which the financial institution does not have a consumer identification and verification process, the financial institution must describe its error resolution process and limitations on consumers' liability for unauthorized transfers or, if none, state that there are no such protections.
(2)
Annual error resolution notice.
The financial institution shall provide an annual notice concerning error resolution that is substantially similar to the notice contained in paragraph (b) of appendix A-7 of this part, in place of the notice required by § 1005.8(b). Alternatively, a financial institution may include on or with each electronic and written account transaction history provided in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a notice substantially similar to the abbreviated notice
for periodic statements contained in paragraph (b) of appendix A-3 of this part, modified as necessary to reflect the error resolution provisions set forth in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e)
Modified limitations on liability and error resolution requirements
—(1)
Modified limitations on liability requirements.
A financial institution that provides information under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall comply with the following:
(i) For purposes of § 1005.6(b)(3), the 60-day period for reporting any unauthorized transfer shall begin on the earlier of:
(A) The date the consumer electronically accesses the consumer's account under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, provided that the electronic account transaction history made available to the consumer reflects the unauthorized transfer; or
(B) The date the financial institution sends a written history of the consumer's account transactions requested by the consumer under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section in which the unauthorized transfer is first reflected.
(ii) A financial institution may comply with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section by limiting the consumer's liability for an unauthorized transfer as provided under § 1005.6(b)(3) for any transfer reported by the consumer within 120 days after the transfer was credited or debited to the consumer's account.
(2)
Modified error resolution requirements.
A financial institution that provides information under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall comply with the following:
(i) The financial institution shall comply with the requirements of § 1005.11 in response to an oral or written notice of an error from the consumer that is received by the earlier of:
(A) Sixty days after the date the consumer electronically accesses the consumer's account under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, provided that the electronic account transaction history made available to the consumer reflects the alleged error; or
(B) Sixty days after the date the financial institution sends a written history of the consumer's account transactions requested by the consumer under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section in which the alleged error is first reflected.
(ii) In lieu of following the procedures in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, a financial institution complies with the requirements for resolving errors in § 1005.11 if it investigates any oral or written notice of an error from the consumer that is received by the institution within 120 days after the transfer allegedly in error was credited or debited to the consumer's account.
(3)
Limitations on liability and error resolution for unverified accounts.
(i) For prepaid accounts that are not payroll card accounts or government benefit accounts, a financial institution is not required to comply with the liability limits and error resolution requirements in §§ 1005.6 and 1005.11 for any prepaid account for which it has not successfully completed its consumer identification and verification process.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, a financial institution has not successfully completed its consumer identification and verification process where:
(A) The financial institution has not concluded its consumer identification and verification process with respect to a particular prepaid account, provided that it has disclosed to the consumer the risks of not registering and verifying the account using a notice that is substantially similar to the model notice contained in paragraph (c) of appendix A-7 of this part.
(B) The financial institution has concluded its consumer identification and verification process with respect to a particular prepaid account, but could not verify the identity of the consumer, provided that it has disclosed to the consumer the risks of not registering and verifying the account using a notice that is substantially similar to the model notice contained in paragraph (c) of appendix A-7 of this part; or
(C) The financial institution does not have a consumer identification and verification process for the prepaid account program, provided that it has made the alternative disclosure described in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section and complies with the process it has disclosed.
(iii)
Resolution of errors following successful verification.
Once a financial institution successfully completes its consumer identification and verification process with respect to a prepaid account, the financial institution must limit the consumer's liability for unauthorized transfers and resolve errors that occur following verification in accordance with § 1005.6 or § 1005.11, or the modified timing requirements in this paragraph (e), as applicable.
(f)
Disclosure of fees and other information
—(1)
Initial disclosure of fees and other information.
A financial institution must include, as part of the initial disclosures given pursuant to § 1005.7, all of the information required to be disclosed in its pre-acquisition long form disclosure pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(2)
Change-in-terms notice.
The change-in-terms notice provisions in § 1005.8(a) apply to any change in a term or condition that is required to be disclosed under § 1005.7 or paragraph (f)(1) of this section. If a financial institution discloses the amount of a third-party fee in its pre-acquisition long form disclosure pursuant to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section and initial disclosures pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the financial institution is not required to provide a change-in-terms notice solely to reflect a change in that fee amount imposed by the third party. If a financial institution provides pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section the Regulation Z disclosures required by paragraph (b)(4)(vii) of this section for an overdraft credit feature, the financial institution is not required to provide a change-in-terms notice solely to reflect a change in the fees or other terms disclosed therein.
(3)
Disclosures on prepaid account access devices.
The name of the financial institution and the Web site URL and a telephone number a consumer can use to contact the financial institution about the prepaid account must be disclosed on the prepaid account access device. If a financial institution does not provide a physical access device in connection with a prepaid account, the disclosure must appear on the Web site, mobile application, or other entry point a consumer must visit to access the prepaid account electronically.
(g)
Prepaid accounts accessible by hybrid prepaid-credit cards
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, with respect to a prepaid account program where consumers may be offered a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined by Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, a financial institution must provide to any prepaid account without a covered separate credit feature the same account terms, conditions, and features that it provides on prepaid accounts in the same prepaid account program that have such a credit feature.
(2)
Exception for higher fees or charges.
A financial institution is not prohibited under paragraph (g)(1) of this section from imposing a higher fee or charge on the asset feature of a prepaid account with a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card than the amount of a comparable fee or charge that it imposes on any prepaid account in the same prepaid account program that does not have such a credit feature.
(h)
Effective date and special transition rules for disclosure provisions
—(1)
Effective date generally.
Except as provided in paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section, the requirements of this subpart, as modified by this section, apply to prepaid accounts as defined in § 1005.2(b)(3), including government benefit accounts subject to § 1005.15, beginning April 1, 2019.
(2)
Early disclosures
—(i)
Exception for disclosures on existing prepaid account access devices and prepaid account packaging materials.
The disclosure requirements of this subpart, as modified by this section, shall not apply to any disclosures that are provided, or that would otherwise be required to be provided, on prepaid account access devices, or on, in, or with prepaid account packaging materials that were manufactured, printed, or otherwise produced in the normal course of business prior to April 1, 2019.
(ii)
Disclosures for prepaid accounts acquired on or after April 1, 2019.
This paragraph applies to prepaid accounts acquired by consumers on or after April 1, 2019 via packaging materials
that were manufactured, printed, or otherwise produced prior to April 1, 2019.
(A)
Notices of certain changes.
If a financial institution has changed a prepaid account's terms and conditions as a result of paragraph (h)(1) of this section taking effect such that a change-in-terms notice would have been required under § 1005.8(a) or paragraph (f)(2) of this section for existing customers, the financial institution must provide to the consumer a notice of the change within 30 days of obtaining the consumer's contact information.
(B)
Initial disclosures.
The financial institution must mail or deliver to the consumer initial disclosures pursuant to § 1005.7 and paragraph (f)(1) of this section that have been updated as a result of paragraph (h)(1) of this section taking effect, within 30 days of obtaining the consumer's contact information.
(iii)
Disclosures for prepaid accounts acquired before April 1, 2019.
This paragraph applies to prepaid accounts acquired by consumers before April 1, 2019. If a financial institution has changed a prepaid account's terms and conditions as a result of paragraph (h)(1) of this section taking effect such that a change-in-terms notice would have been required under § 1005.8(a) or paragraph (f)(2) of this section for existing customers, the financial institution must provide to the consumer a notice of the change at least 21 days in advance of the change becoming effective, provided the financial institution has the consumer's contact information. If the financial institution obtains the consumer's contact information less than 30 days in advance of the change becoming effective or after it has become effective, the financial institution is permitted instead to notify the consumer of the change in accordance with the timing requirements set forth in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(iv)
Method of providing notice to consumers.
With respect to prepaid accounts governed by paragraph (h)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section, if a financial institution has not obtained a consumer's consent to provide disclosures in electronic form pursuant to the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
), or is not otherwise already mailing or delivering to the consumer written account-related communications within the respective time periods specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section, the financial institution may provide to the consumer a notice of a change in terms and conditions pursuant to paragraph (h)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section or required or voluntary updated initial disclosures as a result of paragraph (h)(1) of this section taking effect in electronic form without regard to the consumer notice and consent requirements of section 101(c) of the E-Sign Act.
(3)
Account information not available on April 1, 2019
—(i)
Electronic and written account transaction history.
If, on April 1, 2019, a financial institution does not have readily accessible the data necessary to make available 12 months of electronic account transaction history pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section or to provide 24 months of written account transaction history upon request pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, the financial institution may make available or provide such histories using the data for the time period it has until the financial institution has accumulated the data necessary to comply in full with the requirements set forth in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(ii)
Summary totals of fees.
If, on April 1, 2019, the financial institution does not have readily accessible the data necessary to calculate the summary totals of the amount of all fees assessed by the financial institution on the consumer's prepaid account for the prior calendar month and for the calendar year to date pursuant to paragraph (c)(5) of this section, the financial institution may display the summary totals using the data it has until the financial institution has accumulated the data necessary to display the summary totals as required by paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
[81 FR 84328, Nov. 22, 2016, as amended at 82 FR 18980, Apr. 25, 2017; 83 FR 6417, Feb. 13, 2018]
§ 1005.19
Internet posting of prepaid account agreements.
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Agreement.
For purposes of this section, “agreement” or “prepaid account agreement” means the written document or documents evidencing the terms of the legal obligation, or the prospective legal obligation, between a prepaid account issuer and a consumer for a prepaid account. “Agreement” or “prepaid account agreement” also includes fee information, as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(2)
Amends.
For purposes of this section, an issuer “amends” an agreement if it makes a substantive change (an “amendment”) to the agreement. A change is substantive if it alters the rights or obligations of the issuer or the consumer under the agreement. Any change in the fee information, as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, is deemed to be substantive.
(3)
Fee information.
For purposes of this section, “fee information” means the short form disclosure for the prepaid account pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(2) and the fee information and statements required to be disclosed in the pre-acquisition long form disclosure for the prepaid account pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(4).
(4)
Issuer.
For purposes of this section, “issuer” or “prepaid account issuer” means the entity to which a consumer is legally obligated, or would be legally obligated, under the terms of a prepaid account agreement.
(5)
Offers.
For purposes of this section, an issuer “offers” an agreement if the issuer markets, solicits applications for, or otherwise makes available a prepaid account that would be subject to that agreement, regardless of whether the issuer offers the prepaid account to the general public.
(6)
Offers to the general public.
For purposes of this section, an issuer “offers to the general public” an agreement if the issuer markets, solicits applications for, or otherwise makes available to the general public a prepaid account that would be subject to that agreement.
(7)
Open account.
For purposes of this section, a prepaid account is an “open account” or “open prepaid account” if: There is an outstanding balance in the account; the consumer can load funds to the account even if the account does not currently hold a balance; or the consumer can access credit from a covered separate credit feature accessible by a hybrid prepaid-credit card as defined in Regulation Z, 12 CFR 1026.61, in connection with the account. A prepaid account that has been suspended temporarily (for example, due to a report by the consumer of unauthorized use of the card) is considered an “open account” or “open prepaid account.”
(8)
Prepaid account.
For purposes of this section, “prepaid account” means a prepaid account as defined in § 1005.2(b)(3).
(b)
Submission of agreements to the Bureau
—(1)
Submissions on a rolling basis.
An issuer must make submissions of prepaid account agreements to the Bureau on a rolling basis, in the form and manner specified by the Bureau. Rolling submissions must be sent to the Bureau no later than 30 days after an issuer offers, amends, or ceases to offer any prepaid account agreement as described in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section. Each submission must contain:
(i) Identifying information about the issuer and the agreements submitted, including the issuer's name, address, and identifying number (such as an RSSD ID number or tax identification number), the effective date of the prepaid account agreement, the name of the program manager, if any, and the list of names of other relevant parties, if applicable (such as the employer for a payroll card program or the agency for a government benefit program);
(ii) Any prepaid account agreement offered by the issuer that has not been previously submitted to the Bureau;
(iii) Any prepaid account agreement previously submitted to the Bureau that has been amended, as described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; and
(iv) Notification regarding any prepaid account agreement previously submitted to the Bureau that the issuer is withdrawing, as described in paragraphs (b)(3), (b)(4)(ii), and (b)(5)(ii) of this section.
(2)
Amended agreements
—(i)
Submission of amended agreements generally.
If a prepaid account agreement previously submitted to the Bureau is amended,
the issuer must submit the entire amended agreement to the Bureau, in the form and manner specified by the Bureau, no later than 30 days after the change becomes effective. If other identifying information about the issuer and its submitted agreements pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section previously submitted to the Bureau is amended, the issuer must submit updated information to the Bureau, in the form and manner specified by the Bureau, no later than 30 days after the change becomes effective.
(ii)
Submission of updated list of names of other relevant parties.
Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, an issuer may delay submitting a change to the list of names of other relevant parties to a particular agreement until the earlier of:
(A) Such time as the issuer is otherwise submitting an amended agreement or changes to other identifying information about the issuer and its submitted agreements pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; or
(B) May 1 of each year, for any updates to the list of names of other relevant parties for that agreement that occurred between the issuer's last submission of relevant party information and April 1 of that year.
(3)
Withdrawal of agreements no longer offered.
If an issuer no longer offers a prepaid account agreement that was previously submitted to the Bureau, the issuer must notify the Bureau, in the form and manner specified by the Bureau, no later than 30 days after the issuer ceases to offer the agreement, that it is withdrawing the agreement.
(4)
De minimis exception.
(i) An issuer is not required to submit any prepaid account agreements to the Bureau if the issuer has fewer than 3,000 open prepaid accounts. If the issuer has 3,000 or more open prepaid accounts as of the last day of the calendar quarter, the issuer must submit to the Bureau its prepaid account agreements no later than 30 days after the last day of that calendar quarter.
(ii) If an issuer that did not previously qualify for the de minimis exception newly qualifies for the de minimis exception, the issuer must continue to make submissions to the Bureau on a rolling basis until the issuer notifies the Bureau that the issuer is withdrawing all agreements it previously submitted to the Bureau.
(5)
Product testing exception.
(i) An issuer is not required to submit a prepaid account agreement to the Bureau if the agreement meets the criteria set forth in paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section. If the agreement fails to meet the criteria set forth in paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section as of the last day of the calendar quarter, the issuer must submit to the Bureau that prepaid account agreement no later than 30 days after the last day of that calendar quarter. An agreement qualifies for the product testing exception if the agreement:
(A) Is offered as part of a product test offered to only a limited group of consumers for a limited period of time;
(B) Is used for fewer than 3,000 open prepaid accounts; and
(C) Is not offered other than in connection with such a product test.
(ii) If an agreement that did not previously qualify for the product testing exception newly qualifies for the exception, the issuer must continue to make submissions to the Bureau on a rolling basis with respect to that agreement until the issuer notifies the Bureau that the issuer is withdrawing the agreement.
(6)
Form and content of agreements submitted to the Bureau
—(i)
Form and content generally.
(A) Each agreement must contain the provisions of the agreement and the fee information currently in effect.
(B) Agreements must not include any personally identifiable information relating to any consumer, such as name, address, telephone number, or account number.
(C) The following are not deemed to be part of the agreement for purposes of this section, and therefore are not required to be included in submissions to the Bureau:
(
1
) Ancillary disclosures required by state or Federal law, such as affiliate marketing notices, privacy policies, or disclosures under the E-Sign Act;
(
2
) Solicitation or marketing materials;
(
3
) Periodic statements; and
(
4
) Documents that may be sent to the consumer along with the prepaid
account or prepaid account agreement such as a cover letter, a validation sticker on the card, or other information about card security.
(D) Agreements must be presented in a clear and legible font.
(ii)
Fee information.
Fee information must be set forth either in the prepaid account agreement or in addenda to that agreement that attach either or both the short form disclosure for the prepaid account pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(2) and the fee information and statements required to be disclosed in the long form disclosure for the prepaid account pursuant to § 1005.18(b)(4). The agreement or addenda thereto must contain all of the fee information, as defined by paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
(iii)
Integrated agreement.
An issuer may not provide provisions of the agreement or fee information to the Bureau in the form of change-in-terms notices or riders (other than the optional fee information addenda described in paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section). Changes in provisions or fee information must be integrated into the text of the agreement, or the optional fee information addenda, as appropriate.
(c)
Posting of agreements offered to the general public.
(1) An issuer must post and maintain on its publicly available Web site any prepaid account agreements offered to the general public that the issuer is required to submit to the Bureau under paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Agreements posted pursuant to this paragraph (c) must conform to the form and content requirements for agreements submitted to the Bureau set forth in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(3) The issuer must post and update the agreements posted on its Web site pursuant to this paragraph (c) as frequently as the issuer is required to submit new or amended agreements to the Bureau pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(4) Agreements posted pursuant to this paragraph (c) may be posted in any electronic format that is readily usable by the general public. Agreements must be placed in a location that is prominent and readily accessible to the public and must be accessible without submission of personally identifiable information.
(d)
Agreements for all open accounts
—(1)
Availability of an individual consumer's prepaid account agreement.
With respect to any open prepaid account, an issuer must either:
(i) Post and maintain the consumer's agreement on its Web site; or
(ii) Promptly provide a copy of the consumer's agreement to the consumer upon the consumer's request. If the issuer makes an agreement available upon request, the issuer must provide the consumer with the ability to request a copy of the agreement by telephone. The issuer must send to the consumer a copy of the consumer's prepaid account agreement no later than five business days after the issuer receives the consumer's request.
(2)
Form and content of agreements.
(i) Except as provided in this paragraph (d), agreements posted on the issuer's Web site pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section or sent to the consumer upon the consumer's request pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section must conform to the form and content requirements for agreements submitted to the Bureau as set forth in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(ii) If the issuer posts an agreement on its Web site under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the agreement may be posted in any electronic format that is readily usable by the general public and must be placed in a location that is prominent and readily accessible to the consumer.
(iii) Agreements posted or otherwise provided pursuant to this paragraph (d) may contain personally identifiable information relating to the consumer, such as name, address, telephone number, or account number, provided that the issuer takes appropriate measures to make the agreement accessible only to the consumer or other authorized persons.
(iv) Agreements posted or otherwise provided pursuant to this paragraph (d) must set forth the specific provisions and fee information applicable to the particular consumer.
(v) Agreements posted pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section must be updated as frequently as the issuer
is required to submit amended agreements to the Bureau pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. Agreements provided upon consumer request pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section must be accurate as of the date the agreement is sent to the consumer.
(vi) Agreements provided upon consumer request pursuant to paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section must be provided by the issuer in paper form, unless the consumer agrees to receive the agreement electronically.
(e)
E-Sign Act requirements.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, issuers may provide prepaid account agreements in electronic form under paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section without regard to the consumer notice and consent requirements of section 101(c) of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act(E-Sign Act) (15 U.S.C. 7001
et seq.
).
(f)
Initial submission date.
The requirements of this section apply to prepaid accounts beginning on April 1, 2019. An issuer must submit to the Bureau no later than May 1, 2019 all prepaid account agreements it offers as of April 1, 2019.
[81 FR 84336, Nov. 22, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 6419, Feb. 13, 2018]
§ 1005.20
Requirements for gift cards and gift certificates.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, except as excluded under paragraph (b), the following definitions apply:
(1) “Gift certificate” means a card, code, or other device that is:
(i) Issued on a prepaid basis primarily for personal, family, or household purposes to a consumer in a specified amount that may not be increased or reloaded in exchange for payment; and
(ii) Redeemable upon presentation at a single merchant or an affiliated group of merchants for goods or services.
(2) “Store gift card” means a card, code, or other device that is:
(i) Issued on a prepaid basis primarily for personal, family, or household purposes to a consumer in a specified amount, whether or not that amount may be increased or reloaded, in exchange for payment; and
(ii) Redeemable upon presentation at a single merchant or an affiliated group of merchants for goods or services.
(3) “General-use prepaid card” means a card, code, or other device that is:
(i) Issued on a prepaid basis primarily for personal, family, or household purposes to a consumer in a specified amount, whether or not that amount may be increased or reloaded, in exchange for payment; and
(ii) Redeemable upon presentation at multiple, unaffiliated merchants for goods or services, or usable at automated teller machines.
(4) “Loyalty, award, or promotional gift card” means a card, code, or other device that:
(i) Is issued on a prepaid basis primarily for personal, family, or household purposes to a consumer in connection with a loyalty, award, or promotional program;
(ii) Is redeemable upon presentation at one or more merchants for goods or services, or usable at automated teller machines; and
(iii) Sets forth the following disclosures, as applicable:
(A) A statement indicating that the card, code, or other device is issued for loyalty, award, or promotional purposes, which must be included on the front of the card, code, or other device;
(B) The expiration date for the underlying funds, which must be included on the front of the card, code, or other device;
(C) The amount of any fees that may be imposed in connection with the card, code, or other device, and the conditions under which they may be imposed, which must be provided on or with the card, code, or other device; and
(D) A toll-free telephone number and, if one is maintained, a Web site, that a consumer may use to obtain fee information, which must be included on the card, code, or other device.
(5)
Dormancy or inactivity fee.
The terms “dormancy fee” and “inactivity fee” mean a fee for non-use of or inactivity on a gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card.
(6)
Service fee.
The term “service fee” means a periodic fee for holding or use of a gift certificate, store gift card, or
general-use prepaid card. A periodic fee includes any fee that may be imposed on a gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card from time to time for holding or using the certificate or card.
(7)
Activity.
The term “activity” means any action that results in an increase or decrease of the funds underlying a certificate or card, other than the imposition of a fee, or an adjustment due to an error or a reversal of a prior transaction.
(b)
Exclusions.
The terms “gift certificate,” “store gift card,” and “general-use prepaid card”, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, do not include any card, code, or other device that is:
(1) Useable solely for telephone services;
(2) Reloadable and not marketed or labeled as a gift card or gift certificate. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(2), the term “reloadable” includes a temporary non-reloadable card issued solely in connection with a reloadable card, code, or other device;
(3) A loyalty, award, or promotional gift card;
(4) Not marketed to the general public;
(5) Issued in paper form only; or
(6) Redeemable solely for admission to events or venues at a particular location or group of affiliated locations, or to obtain goods or services in conjunction with admission to such events or venues, either at the event or venue or at specific locations affiliated with and in geographic proximity to the event or venue.
(c)
Form of disclosures
—(1)
Clear and conspicuous.
Disclosures made under this section must be clear and conspicuous. The disclosures may contain commonly accepted or readily understandable abbreviations or symbols.
(2)
Format.
Disclosures made under this section generally must be provided to the consumer in written or electronic form. Except for the disclosures in paragraphs (c)(3) and (h)(2) of this section, written and electronic disclosures made under this section must be in a retainable form. Only disclosures provided under paragraphs (c)(3) and (h)(2) may be given orally.
(3)
Disclosures prior to purchase.
Before a gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card is purchased, a person that issues or sells such certificate or card must disclose to the consumer the information required by paragraphs (d)(2), (e)(3), and (f)(1) of this section. The fees and terms and conditions of expiration that are required to be disclosed prior to purchase may not be changed after purchase.
(4)
Disclosures on the certificate or card.
Disclosures required by paragraphs (a)(4)(iii), (d)(2), (e)(3), and (f)(2) of this section must be made on the certificate or card, or in the case of a loyalty, award, or promotional gift card, on the card, code, or other device. A disclosure made in an accompanying terms and conditions document, on packaging surrounding a certificate or card, or on a sticker or other label affixed to the certificate or card does not constitute a disclosure on the certificate or card. For an electronic certificate or card, disclosures must be provided electronically on the certificate or card provided to the consumer. An issuer that provides a code or confirmation to a consumer orally must provide to the consumer a written or electronic copy of the code or confirmation promptly, and the applicable disclosures must be provided on the written copy of the code or confirmation.
(d)
Prohibition on imposition of fees or charges.
No person may impose a dormancy, inactivity, or service fee with respect to a gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card, unless:
(1) There has been no activity with respect to the certificate or card, in the one-year period ending on the date on which the fee is imposed;
(2) The following are stated, as applicable, clearly and conspicuously on the gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card:
(i) The amount of any dormancy, inactivity, or service fee that may be charged;
(ii) How often such fee may be assessed; and
(iii) That such fee may be assessed for inactivity; and
(3) Not more than one dormancy, inactivity, or service fee is imposed in any given calendar month.
(e)
Prohibition on sale of gift certificates or cards with expiration dates.
No person may sell or issue a gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card with an expiration date, unless:
(1) The person has established policies and procedures to provide consumers with a reasonable opportunity to purchase a certificate or card with at least five years remaining until the certificate or card expiration date;
(2) The expiration date for the underlying funds is at least the later of:
(i) Five years after the date the gift certificate was initially issued, or the date on which funds were last loaded to a store gift card or general-use prepaid card; or
(ii) The certificate or card expiration date, if any;
(3) The following disclosures are provided on the certificate or card, as applicable:
(i) The expiration date for the underlying funds or, if the underlying funds do not expire, that fact;
(ii) A toll-free telephone number and, if one is maintained, a Web site that a consumer may use to obtain a replacement certificate or card after the certificate or card expires if the underlying funds may be available; and
(iii) Except where a non-reloadable certificate or card bears an expiration date that is at least seven years from the date of manufacture, a statement, disclosed with equal prominence and in close proximity to the certificate or card expiration date, that:
(A) The certificate or card expires, but the underlying funds either do not expire or expire later than the certificate or card, and;
(B) The consumer may contact the issuer for a replacement card; and
(4) No fee or charge is imposed on the cardholder for replacing the gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card or for providing the certificate or card holder with the remaining balance in some other manner prior to the funds expiration date, unless such certificate or card has been lost or stolen.
(f)
Additional disclosure requirements for gift certificates or cards.
The following disclosures must be provided in connection with a gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card, as applicable:
(1)
Fee disclosures.
For each type of fee that may be imposed in connection with the certificate or card (other than a dormancy, inactivity, or service fee subject to the disclosure requirements under paragraph (d)(2) of this section), the following information must be provided on or with the certificate or card:
(i) The type of fee;
(ii) The amount of the fee (or an explanation of how the fee will be determined); and
(iii) The conditions under which the fee may be imposed.
(2)
Telephone number for fee information.
A toll-free telephone number and, if one is maintained, a Web site, that a consumer may use to obtain information about fees described in paragraphs (d)(2) and (f)(1) of this section must be disclosed on the certificate or card.
(g)
Compliance dates
—(1)
Effective date for gift certificates, store gift cards, and general-use prepaid cards.
Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, the requirements of this section apply to any gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card sold to a consumer on or after August 22, 2010, or provided to a consumer as a replacement for such certificate or card.
(2)
Effective date for loyalty, award, or promotional gift cards.
The requirements in paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section apply to any card, code, or other device provided to a consumer in connection with a loyalty, award, or promotional program if the period of eligibility for such program began on or after August 22, 2010.
(h)
Temporary exemption
—(1)
Delayed mandatory compliance date.
For any gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card produced prior to April 1, 2010, the mandatory compliance date of the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3), (d)(2), (e)(1), (e)(3), and (f) of this section is January 31, 2011, provided that an issuer of such certificate or card:
(i) Complies with all other provisions of this section;
(ii) Does not impose an expiration date with respect to the funds underlying such certificate or card;
(iii) At the consumer's request, replaces such certificate or card if it has funds remaining at no cost to the consumer; and
(iv) Satisfies the requirements of paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(2)
Additional disclosures.
Issuers relying on the delayed effective date in § 1005.20(h)(1) must disclose through in-store signage, messages during customer service calls, Web sites, and general advertising, that:
(i) The underlying funds of such certificate or card do not expire;
(ii) Consumers holding such certificate or card have a right to a free replacement certificate or card, which must be accompanied by the packaging and materials typically associated with such certificate or card; and
(iii) Any dormancy, inactivity, or service fee for such certificate or card that might otherwise be charged will not be charged if such fees do not comply with section 916 of the Act.
(3)
Expiration of additional disclosure requirements.
The disclosures in paragraph (h)(2) of this section:
(i) Are not required to be provided on or after January 31, 2011, with respect to in-store signage and general advertising.
(ii) Are not required to be provided on or after January 31, 2013, with respect to messages during customer service calls and Web sites.

# Subpart B—Requirements for Remittance Transfers

# Source:
77 FR 6285, Feb. 7, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1005.30
Remittance transfer definitions.
Except as otherwise provided, for purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(a) “Agent” means an agent, authorized delegate, or person affiliated with a remittance transfer provider, as defined under State or other applicable law, when such agent, authorized delegate, or affiliate acts for that remittance transfer provider.
(b) “Business day” means any day on which the offices of a remittance transfer provider are open to the public for carrying on substantially all business functions.
(c) “Designated recipient” means any person specified by the sender as the authorized recipient of a remittance transfer to be received at a location in a foreign country.
(d) “Preauthorized remittance transfer” means a remittance transfer authorized in advance to recur at substantially regular intervals.
(e)
Remittance transfer
—(1)
General definition.
A “remittance transfer” means the electronic transfer of funds requested by a sender to a designated recipient that is sent by a remittance transfer provider. The term applies regardless of whether the sender holds an account with the remittance transfer provider, and regardless of whether the transaction is also an electronic fund transfer, as defined in § 1005.3(b).
(2)
Exclusions from coverage.
The term “remittance transfer” does not include:
(i)
Small value transactions.
Transfer amounts, as described in § 1005.31(b)(1)(i), of $15 or less.
(ii)
Securities and commodities transfers.
Any transfer that is excluded from the definition of electronic fund transfer under § 1005.3(c)(4).
(f)
Remittance transfer provider
—(1)
General definition.
“Remittance transfer provider” or “provider” means any person that provides remittance transfers for a consumer in the normal course of its business, regardless of whether the consumer holds an account with such person.
(2)
Normal course of business
—(i)
Safe harbor.
For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a person is deemed not to be providing remittance transfers for a consumer in the normal course of its business if the person:
(A) Provided 500 or fewer remittance transfers in the previous calendar year; and
(B) Provides 500 or fewer remittance transfers in the current calendar year.
(ii)
Transition period—coming into compliance.
Beginning on July 21, 2020, if a
person that provided 500 or fewer remittance transfers in the previous calendar year provides more than 500 remittance transfers in the current calendar year, and if that person is then providing remittance transfers for a consumer in the normal course of its business pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the person has a reasonable period of time, not to exceed six months, to begin complying with this subpart. Compliance with this subpart will not be required for any remittance transfers for which payment is made during that reasonable period of time.
(iii)
Transition period—qualifying for the safe harbor.
If a person who previously provided remittance transfers in the normal course of its business in excess of the safe harbor threshold set forth in this paragraph (f)(2) determines that, as of a particular date, it will qualify for the safe harbor, it may cease complying with the requirements of this subpart with respect to any remittance transfers for which payment is made after that date. The requirements of the Act and this part, including those set forth in §§ 1005.33 and 1005.34, as well as the requirements set forth in § 1005.13, continue to apply to transfers for which payment is made prior to that date.
(g) “Sender” means a consumer in a State who primarily for personal, family, or household purposes requests a remittance transfer provider to send a remittance transfer to a designated recipient.
(h)
Third-party fees.
